ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 11 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 813-B, which was first approved by the Senate and the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I listened carefully to Mr Quagliariello's report in this House: interesting, very open, in some ways perhaps excessively open, when the government should at least have defined not a preferential lane, but at least a corridor within which to give the Senate Assembly a clearer working hypothesis, within a clearer framework. I share the Minister's reflection when he said that the institutions are not third: through institutions of a certain kind we have the possibility of building a political-institutional system, a socio-economic scenario of a certain type; in front of different institutions the scenario could and can change. I find myself completely and perfectly in disagreement, however, when the Government, through its Minister, argues that the reason why Italy has failed to achieve a form of mature bipolarism is linked to the mere fact that the parties have collapsed. I would add two factors: they are two additional factors, one national and the other national and European, which tell us a lot about the difficulty in Italy of creating a system that has characteristics such as these. The first reason is that, unlike what is happening in the rest of Europe, we have chosen not the redistribution of wealth and the different forms of democracy to look at carefully, but justice as the boundary between the right and the left. Until we eliminate justice as a border point, as a border line between A and B, between right and left, between conservatives and progressives, we will not be in a position to create a normal scenario. The other difference - and this difference must be given a name and a surname - is the fact that in Italy (and elsewhere it is not so or not so in the Italian national measure) there are now only, in addition to the real parties, personal parties. We have reversed the English criterion if there is no party there is no leader and we have replaced it with the principle there is only one party provided that there is a leader. I would add an issue, which is detrimental to bipolarism in Italy and which begins to be so in Europe, which has now chosen bipolarism not only as a way, but also as an orientation since the immediate second post-war period. Europe now lives not only on the reformist right-hand track, but on the rather rooted scenario of extreme left radicalisms or xenophobic radicalisms, populisms and demagogies of various kinds, which permanently collect a consensus by which they effectively oblige the system to reorganise itself in the form of governments that we can define as necessity or emergency. This is what happened in Italy, what happened in Austria and what could happen in Germany. This question, ladies and gentlemen, poses a number of questions not only to the Government, but to both sides of this House, (in fact to the third parties in this House), and above all to the coalition to which I belong. I am referring to the three questions that very often the left has failed to decline: how is globalisation? How is the issue of direct democracy addressed, since the Italian and European left was born within representative and parliamentary democracy? How do you live without parties (and, therefore, how can new parties be refounded)? President Lanzillotta, there has been a multi-firm motion in the Presidency for months - it bears the signature of many elected socialists, of some friends and colleagues of the Democratic Party, perhaps also of the Mixed-SEL Group and beyond - to transpose a recommendation from the European Commission linked to the forthcoming European elections. It is planned to write inside the ballot both the house of European membership to which the parties would like to join (and it must be told the electoral citizens before the elections are held) and the candidate for the presidency of the European Commission that they intend to support. To be fair, Madam President, this motion must be put to the vote. In fact, we cannot support outside, on the streets, that we agree to define an institutional orientation of a certain kind and in the parliamentary classrooms we behave in a decidedly opposite way. Three points and I shall finish. As far as the electoral law is concerned, it is well known that it can carry the form of government: I personally prefer an electoral law that gives citizens the power to choose again, otherwise we should explain why the Constitution continues the diction of the "equal, free and secret" vote. Secondly, I share Mr Quagliariello's working hypothesis when he says that we must reform the perfect bicameralism and we must do so by thinking of a Chamber of self-government, a reduction in the number of elected and a specificity of functions. Thirdly, it is necessary to rethink the role of the parties and to decline Article 49 of the Constitution in the manner of Calamandrei. As we will also be discussing funding, at least public funding for party activity and support for election campaigns, we need to be able to combine these two factors. Only parties reformed and in accordance with democratic rules of freedom can enjoy public funding; if they are not, they cannot enjoy public funding. We will have excellent examples, also in this House, of parties that, not by their own will but by their own standards, should give up funding because they are parties that have absolutely nothing to do with democracy. [[Applause from Senators Buemi and Gambaro.]] The last question concerns local order. It's our responsibility. If we pretend to close the game - and I concluded - abolishing the Provinces without knowing who goes to what, who does what, what does the right hand and if you remember to say it to the left hand, we create a terrible wound in the local Italian institutional system. It makes sense to dissolve the Provinces if we strengthen the Municipalities, if we dissolve the mountain communities, if we go towards the exploitation of the mergers of local authorities, if we review the role, by now bastard, of the Italian regions. To leave the abolition of the Provinces only at the scream of the square, without thinking about what substitute or supplementary order to have in mind, means to create the conditions to rebomb institutions that since 1992 are largely lacking. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD and the Senators D'Onghia, Candiani and Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u6	Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again called upon to debate and vote on this abnormal violation - in our view - of fundamental principles of a state that aspires to call itself democratic. We are called upon to pronounce on a bill that changes the basic rules, no, even worse: derogation from the rules to change the basic rules, that is, the Constitution. We must remember that. For months we have been discussing how to amend the Constitution: not the contents of the possible amendment, but only the ways in which to amend it. A first question arises in this regard: is there really a willingness to amend the Constitution? If so, why did not the debate on the substance begin immediately? Yes, perhaps there is the will on the part of this majority not only to change it, but to turn it upside down, bend it and shape it in its own interests, that is quite clear; but it is also clear that the debate on reforms has been taken away from Parliament. It was taken away (and it took time) as it was necessary to give time to this assembly of essays (attribute important enough to define people who certainly have technical skills, but wisdom is a great virtue) to formulate a theory. So what we've been doing for a few months has been wasting time working outside Parliament, totally outsourcing the debate on reforms, but in this waste of time, a change in the rules had to be adopted to speed up the next debate. Parliament should be the privileged forum in which to build a serious debate, but this - as we have already seen - does not happen and is not possible. This Parliament has been deprived of its role as a place of representation of the people: we see it every day with the mortification that we must suffer, crushed by the bullies of a government that uses the exceptional instrument of the decree-law (it should be an exceptional instrument, which should have the characteristics of necessity, urgency and homogeneity) as an ordinary mode of legislative action. It is a few days ago the example of the decree-law on gender violence, so-called feminicide: the theme of feminicide was used to ride a compelling social theme, used as a Trojan horse, a moral blackmail that led us to have to approve that package penalty the decline of the positive consequences of only five articles on gender violence, bringing in all the other garbage. However, one doubt remains: the government - we have repeated it several times - should not be entitled to influence any constitutional changes or reforms; it should be a task of Parliament. But perhaps not even this Parliament is legitimate: it has been elected by an electoral law - which, I remember, you have been keeping alive for eight years - which everyone considered illegitimate, yet the right to amend the fundamental Charter governing our democratic life is being arrogant. We are not amending the Constitution on this basis. First of all, it is an illegitimate Parliament, as we have said several times: a Parliament, appointed by party secretariats, elected by an electoral law that risks receiving a judgment of unconstitutionality. It is an illegitimate government, born from the will of the Innominable, and I leave it to you to imagine who it is. There is a group of wise men who legitimized with a pseudo-wisdom signature the government's will to launch constitutional reforms: not the will of Parliament, but the will of the government. All this by way of derogation from the guarantee rules laid down in the Constitutional Charter itself. A Parliament, this Parliament, which should approve this derogation, which should approve constitutional reforms, composed of people who vote using a paper ball instead of their presence. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Is this Parliament that should approve the fundamental reforms of the Constitutional Charter? Is this Parliament, made up of people who defraud the state? And these people are supposed to approve a constitutional reform? All this is unlawful. Then I want to speak on the report by Minister Quagliariello, according to which for the government constitutional reforms are the central hub of the program, thus confirming that it is the Government that pulls the strings of the operation. The Minister speaks of the fragility of the institutional system and blames the parties, without which, in his opinion, the democratic system would not be conceivable. However, and at the same time, he says that the parties have failed, that they have collapsed, that they are now in decline: the Minister says so, we do not say so. At this point, however, if the parties are gradually losing their role, I have the doubt that we are not in one democratic state, because either. The minister then talks about the defense of bipolarism. But the bipolarism of which many people fill our mouths is already there at this moment and is clear: on the one hand the Democratic Party and the People of Freedom and on the other the 5 Star Movement. Bipolarism exists: there is a majority made up of PD and PdL together and an opposition, the only opposition that perhaps has not been seen in Parliament for some time, that is, ours. This is the reality: bipolarism has been achieved by citizens in fact by their vote. The Minister also spoke of strengthening the powers of the Government (therefore the decree of urgency is not enough) and of overlapping competences. But who voted for that overlap of competences? Who voted for the previous rules that led the country to this situation regarding local autonomy? This same Parliament. The wise men may have forgotten to examine, because there is no form of government in the report: the presidential monarchy, the monarchy of the President of the Republic, the monarchy of those who decide and influence parliamentary activity, as our President of the Republic is currently doing, even today, again, with the warnings. This is what's happening. You have spoken of the difference between the cost of political activities and the cost of democracy. It is for this reason that the electoral refunds are still there. It is for this reason that they have simply changed their names, now becoming two times a thousand, now becoming something else, but they always stay there and keep them always. This is the situation we are in. The country does not need institutional reforms right now. You're looking for a scapegoat. You're looking for an excuse in the instrument. When a driver makes an accident, he doesn't condemn the car but the driver. When you use a weapon, you don't condemn the weapon but the one who uses it and uses it badly. That is the reality. We must not condemn the instrument: we must condemn those who in recent decades have been inadequate in using it to solve the problems of the country. As I said last time, I imagine every morning a housewife, a retired person, a precarious person or an unemployed person who wakes up and his first thought in the morning, even before taking the children to school or going to the employment office to look for a job, before even dealing with the bills, is that of presidentialism: if presidentialism yes or presidentialism no, whether perfect bicameralism or monocameralism. I imagine all Italian citizens who every morning have only this fixed thought: institutional reforms! That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. It's not like that, Minister. At this moment the country needs reforms, but serious reforms, in support of small and medium-sized enterprises, of those who do not arrive at the end of the month, of those who do not have work. Citizenship income and support for small businesses: these are the only reforms that the country needs right now. And let's still remember the income of citizenship, an income of dignity. This is the only true reform that the country needs: the total revolution of the Italian welfare system. Certainly not the change of the perfect bicameralism or presidentialism, these are not the things with which you arrive at the end of the month and with which you eat every day! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u8	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u9	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today once again discussing constitutional reforms as if the country's salvation depended on them, as if the Italians every day considered the transformation of the government as the solution to all their problems. But the question we have to ask ourselves today in this House is one: do Italian citizens really ask us this? We have unemployment at 12%, youth unemployment at 40%, 15 million Italians live in a condition of deprivation and economic hardship, we have a school dropout that has reached unprecedented percentages, a decrease in consumption and the purchasing power of wages and the other European countries do not envy us at all. As many as 12,442 companies closed in 2012, adding the 4,218 that delivered their books to court in the first quarter of this year. These are the priorities that this House must address, but according to the reasoning of the Government and the majority the introduction of the direct election of the Head of State or the strengthening of the powers of the Prime Minister would allow Italian citizens to face the day serenely. Why do you come to tell us that Italy has run the risk of failing for the failed constitutional reforms and you do not tell us about the monstrous debt accumulated? What are we talking about? The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that the economic approach to the reform of the Constitution is now a mantra of this Government, and so much so that it has included constitutional reforms in the DEF Update Note that we approved last week. Yesterday Minister Quagliariello came to present us with the final report of the so-called wise men, experts who were to be not only a guarantee of legal-constitutional competence, but also and above all a guarantee of moral integrity. Too bad that five of them are currently being investigated by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Bari for fraud, corruption, acts contrary to office duties and false ideology! It is a good thing to say, unfortunately, that you can never rest. But above all, I ask myself and ask you, ladies and gentlemen: in what hands did our Constitution happen? Already during the first reading of the Constitutional Act No. 813 we had expressed our concerns about the substance and method, highlighting one aspect: the inopportunity for the Government to assume the right to promote the reforms of our Constitutional Charter through the establishment of a special Committee to which specific tasks and powers should be assigned. It is in the eyes of all that it has been decided to adopt a method which significantly exonerates Parliament's sovereignty. Government and majority have decided that the changes of the Italian Constitution will be carried out by a group of forty parliamentarians plus two presidents belonging to the majority PdL-PDmenoelle, that is to say those parties that are responsible for the disaster in which our Country is today [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] to those political subjects who for decades have ignored, unimagined and trampled on our fundamental Charter and who today are arrogant of the right to modify it according to their own needs, masking them from the needs of the country. We are really struggling and we need a truly enviable fantasy exercise, ladies and gentlemen, to consider as a reformer a process deeply spoiled in the form and the actors who lead it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At our request, you have created the website "www.partecipa.it" but the scheme to be compiled was pre-established and there was no possibility of making other proposals. This is not participation. Too often it is confused and limited to its first stage, information. True participation is when citizens can direct our choices as politicians, they can ask for and get the change of wrong and harmful choices. Parliament should be the first representative body of these wills, but all too often it is unheard of, as has been the case in this House for the reform of judicial geography, and it aligns itself, bending to the will of the Government: both conform, without room for proper rethinking. Where is the respect for the citizens? For the umpteenth time we put on the margins of this pseudo-reformer process, last July we asked with our amendments to reduce from one fifth to one tenth the number of parliamentarians and from 500 000 to 50 000 the number of citizens sufficient to submit to popular referendum the draft laws that will be produced by this Committee for Reforms. You failed them all. We want to restore the role of popular sovereignty, we want to improve the democratic approach of the Constitution. You want to confirm bipolarism and you do not realize that the country is tired of falsehoods; it has understood well that behind this apparent opposition have hidden reciprocal protections of many other interests, certainly not of the citizens [[Applause from the M5S Group]] or at least not of all citizens. You want to close your eyes to the change that is taking place, to the civic awakening that our Movement has promoted and will promote unstoppably, despite all your attempts to make our utility believe, because you often use our slogans, our proposals make them yours, knowing that they correspond exactly to the public good, but avoid making us understand that at the origin we are the ones to propose. Sure, because we're citizens. We, a piece of citizenship which in this House today appeals to your consciences. Who of you wants to be remembered for helping to balance the past, instead of activating change, to establish presidentialism, against what the people want, that is, a greater value of Parliament? Who despite his common sense wants to be remembered for this vote in favour of this bill. It's a political choice. You'll take responsibility. If you wish, however, to be remembered for giving life to change and having had the courage to respond to your conscience against your party and not your party, you will vote against and recover with us the value of a true democracy and a Constitution saved and implemented! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u10	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I will bring to this House a document and my thoughts and most of the citizens: The main street is the manifesto of the assembly for the Constitution, which saw on 12 October a great demonstration of ordinary people. ==References====External links== Faced with the miseries, personal ambitions and rivalries of groups dealing with state affairs, we invite citizens - and I would add politicians - not to be distracted. We invite them to question the great problems of our society and to rediscover politics and its compass: the Constitution. The dignity of people, social justice and solidarity with the weak and marginalized, legality and the abolition of privileges, fairness in the distribution of the burdens and sacrifices imposed by the economic crisis, the hope of freedom, work and culture for the younger generations, justice and democracy in Europe, peace: this is the Constitution. The defence of the Constitution is not a tired reference to a text written many years ago. This is not an absurd conservative attitude, out of date. Do we not have, today more than ever, in the daily lives of so many people, a need for dignity, legality, justice and freedom? Do we not need Constitution-oriented policy? Do we not need a deep reclamation in the name of the principles and democratic participation it lays down? On the other hand, the idea that this Constitution is out of date has made its way, not by chance and not innocently; that it prevents the modernization of our country; that individual and collective rights are a brake on economic development; that solidarity is an empty word; that the dramas and desperation of individuals and families are an inevitable price to pay; that political participation and Parliament are obstacles; that the government should only be the efficiency of economic policy at the service of investors; that the true constitution is, therefore, another: both the Diktat of the markets to which everything else must be subordinated. In a word: the idea has emerged that democracy has made its time and that it is now in a post-democratic time: the time to replace the government of the economic and financial "technical" government with the government of the democratic "political." Thus, the "inescapable reforms" - as they have been defined - are explained, inescapable in order to move from one Constitution to another. The defence of the Constitution is therefore first and foremost the promotion of an idea of society, which differs from that of those who have worked so far tacitally to empty it and, now, operate to tamper formally with it. It is a commitment, at the same time, cultural and political, that calls for a clear definition of the nature of the stakes and for the gathering of as many forces as possible to reach and mobilize. It is not the defence of a past that cannot return, but a programme for a future to be built in Italy and Europe. 2. Yet, no matter what has been done to remove it from the official political discourse in which it was evoked only because of the will to change it, the Constitution has been alive in recent years. Today, we are aware of the topicality of Article 1 of the Constitution, which places the work at the base, at the foundation of democracy: an article long devalued or mocked as an expression of empty ideology. Today, we rediscover the value of equality, as a requirement for justice and strength of social cohesion, according to the proclamation of art. 3 of the Constitution: an article long considered an antique and replaced by the praise of inequality and unlimited competition on the social scale. Today, the dignity of the person and the inviolability of his fundamental rights, proclaimed by art. 2 of the Constitution, represent the defense against the commodification of the life of human beings, according to the "natural" laws of the market. Today, tax duty and tax fairness, according to the criterion of progressive participation in public expenditure, proclaimed by art. 53 of the Constitution, it proves to be an essential cornerstone of every possible bond of citizenship, after so many years of tolerance, or even of justification and praise, of tax evasion. Here, with some examples, what is the idea of a just society that the Constitution indicates to us. In recent years, the defence of essential rights, such as the management of common goods, the guarantee of trade union rights, the protection of motherhood, the self-determination of people at critical moments of existence, has taken place in the name of the Constitution, more in the classrooms of the courts than in those of Parliament; and we must ask ourselves about this - more in popular mobilizations than in legislative and government initiatives. On the contrary, we can see that the Constitution, the more it has been ignored at the top, the more it has become a reference point for so many people, movements, associations in civil society (...). In short: while the official public space was lost in an increasingly senseless power game and emptied itself of constitutional sense, it came alongside a wider informal public space, occupied by spontaneous forces. Roads and squares have offered extraordinary opportunities for encounter and mutual recognition. They must continue to be so, because there the political novelty has taken on strength and communication capacity; there, for a few moments, isolation and loneliness have been overcome; there a different society has been imagined. There, the word of the Constitution has resounded completely naturally (...). I have heard many times in this House names such as Berlinguer, Pertini. Enrico Berlinguer - I say this to that political part that is identified there - said that a leftist politician does things for the people and together with the people. To want to be good - I of course do not believe it - these reforms are made for the people, but they are certainly not done together with the people, since they were neither informed nor involved. Finally, I respond to those who say that the subscribers of this document are conservatives (Landini and Rodotà). I, who, of course, feel very close to these men, say that if I defend the Constitution, and therefore a worthy democracy, if I do not condemn the citizens to find themselves taking off their cup to work - because we are talking about this - it means being conservative, then I am very happy to be a conservative; indeed, I am proud of it. I conclude with a sentence by Sandro Pertini, who has also been referred to this House several times. Pertini said that if a government does not do what the people want it must be thrown out, even with clubs, if necessary. I invite you to reflect on this. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Borioli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u13	Madam President, I want to speak in defence of our Constitution, basically because I believe that the reason you want to change it is because you are not and have never been able to achieve its principles. I tell you now, without so many rhetorical preambles: you change it because you are not only not able to apply it but because you are not interested; indeed, better, it is a real obstacle. It is useless that you protest: it is so, unfortunately, and it is happening today in this country reduced to hunger, when, reading the first article, where the right to the dignity of work and to the realization of man through it is established, it turns and you understand that you and those who came before you did not honor it. I believe that the Italians are all now convinced that the problem is you and not the form of the State. On the other hand, they had already rejected similar reforms in the 2006 referendum. What you mean less - because you're good at hiding it from everyone - is the sense of this flash operation, to quickly consume the betrayal of our Charter. How you got here and why. Our Constitutional Charter has already shown its strength and nobility since its simplicity. All but all Italian citizens can read and understand it. The rights and duties are clear, clear. When it was written it came out of the nightmare of war and the Resistance. The words weighed, the rights enshrined in them had conquered them and defended our fathers and grandparents with their lives. Today, however, we are at a time when words and concepts have been emptied of their meaning. Here, in this House, we hear about work, recovery, revival, and everyone knows that they no longer mean anything. Unfortunately, the exodus, students, pensioners, the young and old unemployed know this. Thus, emptied of meaning, these words are no longer worth anything and can be repeated as, at best, a hypnotic mantra or, at worst, as a broken record, without causing indignation, but addictive, torporous and at most nausea. Thus, while the citizens are stunned by the false promises that you repeat here, in the newspapers, on TV, you unleash other words, the magical and terrible ones: the most used is responsibility as well as the other very popular emergency. I tried to ask a Undersecretary in the Commission to explain a measure to me without using the term 'emergency', but it failed; after a while it had to use synonyms such as 'emergency' several times. There are also other expressions such as'special', 'European', 'divisive'. In my opinion, however, the worst, the most terrible, is "special" which is often accompanied by other words to evoke even darker figures, such as "special commissioner," which means for you the power to circumvent rules and laws (they are scattered a little everywhere these "special commissioners") or "special commission." Another word that is abused is "saggi" (saggi) which is best accompanied by "comitato" (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (saggi) " (s) " Do you remember the wise men's committee? I am referring to that pre-Letta; it was now almost two Governments ago. It seems like a century ago, but it was only a few months ago. I do not know where you found them in our Constitutional Charter, there is no sign of committees of essays, nothing is mentioned in this regard. Someone has invented them of a healthy plant, someone has prepared the incubator for this Government of broad understandings - which we call the "one model" - to favor its birth, at a time when you felt lost; it was close that you had not, it was close that the guarantor of this Constitution was a man of high institutional profile such as Rodotà. But we don't make pindaric flights. I'll leave these to you. To return to the way you have bent and distorted the dictates of our Constitution, I recall that just before the failure of Bersani, instead of starting the Permanent Commissions, parliamentary bodies that serve to work and legislate (which had to be done immediately to save Italy), you have crossed with the two Special Temporary Commissions. While you were dilapidating us by saying "freeze yourselves," you have wasted valuable time during which other businesses have closed down and other families have collapsed economically, so as not to risk losing power, assigning important roles as President of the Commission to the opponent, who then became your ally. But this is the irony of life! [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]] You see, it was not already done then to respect the Constitution; it was preferred to invent something never seen. Then we protested with everyone, with President Grasso in the first place, and we denounced your guilty inactivity by reading the Constitution in this House, beyond the sitting time. You shouted at the scandal, you were outraged: from what pulpit the sermon started. The same one from which the weaves started towards our colleagues in the House who occupied a roof. "They can only occupy the roofs," you said, "let it be said that it is a harsh, lowly commentary, and these lownesses say a lot." In short, the Constitution is no longer valid and you are well governed by decree-laws, maintaining this Parliament as the Registry Office of the Government. The Premier candidate is already there and, to put it in a popular way, sing it and play it for you. Here you stamp and vydemate. You also know that this Parliament is so powerless that it may well be worth deciding on the reform of the Constitution in a motel outside the city, among a few friends who are wise, including some investigated, suspected of having rigged competitions. That's what I used to call baseness! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] How did you choose them? Because here, too, this government has reserved itself for the choice by expelling Parliament again. Among these essays are personalities such as Violante, the nuncio of Mediaset's rescue and the interests of its owners... [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . . we remember this well, no sense of the concept of conflict of interest, but I think it would be important to have this concept before we get our hands on the Constitution. Or isn't it? Or as Professor Marco Olivetti says, always from the motel outside the city: Here comes a procession of five-star pirlas on the way to Francavilla. Apart from the insult, which one knows goes and comes and goes back to the sender, would this professor be an impartial man? High-profile? What is he proposing about constitutional reforms? Do you realize that? Essays appointed and elected parliamentarians with an electoral law that will soon be declared unconstitutional and are even in wrong proportion. Yes, because here in the Senate we are half the Members of the House, but you have predicted a good 20 plus 20, just to take it into account! Parliamentarians chosen, moreover, with an electoral law probably unconstitutional, pumped into the number by an equally unconstitutional majority prize. When I tell strangers, they don't believe it. Minister Quagliariello in this House at the first sitting of this draft law, said that they had improved it and made it more constitutional. Do you understand the point? Because then maybe it isn't, constitutional. The concept of constitutional is something black or white. One cannot be little or more constitutional than before, or less constitutional now. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It's like saying "you're alive" or "you're dead"; you're not a little dead. But your masterpiece is the idea of modifying the article that says how to modify the Constitution. This is equivalent to a conceptual incest by making it do more to self-centered essays. How can we not tolerate hearing the Minister speak a more rigorous discipline of urgent decree? It should be limited, not modified. The decree should only be a matter of urgency, but it is always the only way to legislate, in the face of Parliament and democracy. The decrees-laws of the beginnings of the Republic counted on the fingers of one hand. There are hundreds of them in our time. We tremble when we hear about reform of justice. Let's imagine where you're going with this. We tremble when we hear about a stronger policy! But why? Explain it to the Italians. Why should politics be stronger? Can't it make more sense? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Can't he be mild and at the service of the citizen? Does everything always have to be brought back to a problem of strength and power? That also says a lot about you, about what you have in mind. After all, you have already shown this with a balanced budget set up in the Constitution, a wound that is bleeding out the principles of our Charter: first you have to pay the debts and then, possibly, support public health or school. "We are asked by Europe" you have told us, a phrase that returns like a mantra. Or, with the Fornero reform. Why is it not unconstitutional what you did to the workers? You are always ready to invoke the legitimacy of a norm if it serves you, but if you talk about a law that goes to destroy Italian workers you can prevail. Well, again this time for this clumsy and dangerous amendment that you inflict on the Italian Constitution seems to be worth the same sentence: Europe is asking us to do so. There is urgency, it is an emergency, it is necessary to act with more appropriate instruments to make policy stronger. Go with these special committees, all extra-constitutional and even a little ideological veteran, however very undemocratic. But who cares, right? Both the Constitution - as you called it of the PdL - is an old lady and it is known that these days old ladies are not fashionable, even the botulin would no longer help them to be accepted. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Always implying the electoral law as related to the reform of the Constitution is also mystifying. There is no need to reform the institutions in order to implement the electoral law. It could be done right away, it's an ordinary law. But it is better to engage with the urgency (or emergency depending on repetitions) of an electoral law the need to amend the Constitutional Charter, because in this way everything is taken home. And tell people that, without reform, you can't do electoral law, and you make people believe that they are disinformed by television. In the same way, linked to the reform of the Constitution the concept of the cuts to the costs of politics, another way of fooling the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You can do it now. You could have cut your wages, just like we did. You can cut off the most unnecessary and expensive privileges. You could have given up the electoral refunds that you have restored - look at this - by betraying a referendum [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , another very "constitutional" gesture. Yes, of course, Members can be reduced by reform. It's true, but for now it's just talk, words. I repeat that you are inadequate today, not our Constitution. It would take a political and administrative class with some good and honest extra person to get our country and its economy off the ground. There is no need for radical reform of the state. It would take a less intertwined leadership with lobbying and private and financial interests, and I add parental. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But - alas - it does not deviate from this project. The last nefariousness you had to do was to hide all this from the citizens. I consider this to be the most serious fact, far from the eyes of democracy. Our struggle and the struggle of so many to defend the Constitution has been minimized, cancelled, censored in the media. I put a question to the RAI Supervisory Committee a short time ago, with which I asked to do more information to communicate as easily, punctually and above all understandable by everyone, in time slots with the greatest listening and always with an adequate contradictory, the last word that is not understood on television, is unknown. I have been told by RAI that they have done many services on the news, that they have dealt even with Minister Quagliariello or in the night column of RAI Parliament or in the morning with Professor Marco Olivetti, that is, with the essay that gives pirla to others. Practically, the information so important, vital and mandatory to involve the Italian people, which, among other things, should also be mandatory in this regard, has been rendered in short services to the TG from 1 minute and a half, 3 or at most 5 minutes, that certainly cannot be exhaustive of the argument and cannot adequately explain the complex but lightning iter that you have designed, or in programmes aired in secondary time slots and above all - this is really serious - without a real contradictory, and I repeat without an contradictory. I'll insist, don't worry. I would like to read to you, about the cryptic nature of your words and the cheating behind certain phrases, a part of the speech that yesterday read in the Chamber the Minister, just to make the citizens understand, that it is the following: " (...) the Commission, made up of lawyers and scholars with different cultural and political-institutional sensibilities, has striven in advance to nuclearize the elements of sharing more than the points of fracture, in order to counter those temptations to constitutional conservatism and modelism that for years paralyse any attempt at reform. The first result of this method can be found in a widely shared diagnosis of the problems to be solved and the objectives to be pursued. In this sense, the Commission has carried out its work in an awareness of the gravity and non-conjunctural character of the Italian crisis and the indissoluble and increasingly evident interweaving between the solidity and quality of the institutional structure and the continuation of a recession that affects social cohesion itself. Well, I don't know what the Italians understood about this. We have understood this, but because we are used to your panegyrics. In fact, we also understood that it doesn't mean anything, that it's fried air. The question, however, is: why use this language? Because you do not want to inform the citizens; you do not want to involve them in that so important process that you have set up in four and four eight, at night and - as I said before - away from the eyes of democracy. So, what will the Italian citizens understand about this? I'll finish. I'll tell you that, even without meaning to the letter your panegyrics, the Italians have understood that you are fooling them. But let me tell you something else: vice versa their response will be much simpler, linear, clear and democratic and, when it arrives, you will all go home and certainly not save you even these constitutional reforms! [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u14	VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, senators and senators, the path to reform of our Constitution is undoubtedly one of the most stimulating aspects of this legislature. The reform of the Constitution is looked at with particular attention by us, representatives of territories governed by special statutes of autonomy that precisely in the Constitutional Charter have their place. So, in addition to finally hoping for the incardination of the State-Regions understanding as a bilateral pact between central power and special suburbs, our attention focuses on delicate and important points, such as the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, where we will be very vigilant and attentive. In this regard, we are concerned about the positions outlined yesterday by Minister Quagliariello, within the Commission of the wise men, who would suggest, within the framework of the legislative competences competing or not between the State and the Regions, the inclusion of the state safeguard clause. I do not hide that this is a matter of great concern to us as representatives of special self-government. We are convinced, as Minister Quagliariello himself recently said in a forum in Valle d'Aosta, in Cogne, that the country can start again if the reform process goes on, otherwise, everything involves an institutional breakdown. But we are also very careful, vigilant and concerned about aspects that seem to be outside the reform process, but which then have a direct impact on our realities. I am referring, for example, to the severe penalties that the regions and the provinces with special status have suffered in the last financial manoeuvre, so much so that we do not hide our strong concern for what will reserve the next maneuver of stability. Unfortunately, we have already taken the signals: I am referring in particular to the financial assistance of the Regions with special status for the year 2013, in particular for the Valle d'Aosta; or, again, to official positions, such as the statement of the commander of the Forest Corps of the State, Cesare Patrone, who at the hearing in the Committee on Agriculture argued that the Forest Corps of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces no longer have a sense of existence, statement, this, which arouses little doubt and great concern. Our forest bodies must be regional, as enshrined in the statutes of autonomy. Here, therefore, is our fear that the path of reforms will lead, yes, to a confirmation of the special autonomy, but in reality empty of their prerogatives and their financial potential, conditions, these, necessary so that they are not only empty containers, a simulacrum of autonomy; autonomy, on the other hand, must represent real possibilities of development, clearly in the responsibility for a common good. Ours, then, will be a positive attitude towards this process of reform, but conditioned by what will be the real attitude of the Government towards the special autonomy [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Battista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u17	Madam President, at one of the first meetings I had the opportunity to attend, we were talking about this very issue and there was the usual deserted House. Clearly, certain issues are not of interest to a political side. For a long time now, an attempt has been made to change the meaning of the Constitution. All the interventions that we have witnessed so far seek to declassify the fundamental law of the State from the primary instrument of democracy to the instrument of guarantee of the few, often forgetting above all that the Constitutional Charter was born in order to guarantee equality, social justice, transparency of power and responsibility of those who govern the country, that is the fundamental characteristics of a democracy. It therefore seems that we are going in the direction of an oligarchical change, represented by a regime of inequality and privileges that conceal a power made of connivances and clientele, not only at national, but also at international level. Continuing on this path, your much announced and necessary reform will only be yet another counter-reform and yet another internal damage to democracy and will only increase the distance between citizens and political representatives. But we're not in! We will use all the tools in our possession to guarantee our Constitution and to prevent the misuse that you are making of it and if many of us representatives of the 5 Star Movement Group have signed up to speak, it is because this is the tool that we have and use it. A famous constitutionalist, Professor Gustavo Zagrebelsky, states: Above all, who wants to change the Constitution should be asked: what is the mandate that authorizes you? The constituent power does not belong to you at all. You have been elected - we have been elected - to stand below, not above the Constitution. If you claim to be above, you lack legitimacy, you are usurpers. If we really don't want to use big words, let's say you're like the frog trying to swell up to become an ox. This isn't the first time. It's already happened. But does that mean that what is illegitimate has therefore become legitimate? The Constitution belongs to everyone. That being said, this does not mean that it is not editable, but must not become your refuge. It is not the Constitution that has to stand on the bench of the accused, but the current conception of politics and a large part of the ruling class which, instead of renewing itself, pretends to impose its conception of politics and the myriad of underlying interests. We of the 5 Star Movement are not in principle opposed to change, indeed it is clear that the broad electoral consensus at the last political elections emphasizes that the people call for a profound renewal and asked for it loudly. And we represent all the voices of the citizens who long for this change. The point, however, is that the only and necessary condition for taking this path is to do so in the forms and means of democracy. Here, however, we are faced with a continuous failure of politics. I also remember the words of the President of the Republic of Naples during his speech of settlement, when he criticized these failures and more criticized this political class, plus you applauded. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] We stayed silent, you looked at us, you insulted us, but you applauded this failure and what you are doing now is a further testimony. We will strive in this sense by fighting any form of illegality, immunity, privilege and the dark sides of power, in order to pursue truth and justice, by reducing inequalities in order to rebalance society, by guaranteeing rights to the weakest, those same weak ones who, due to the devastating economic crisis, are increasingly marginalized and left alone by the State. It is a question of whether these constitutional reforms, such as the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, the much-pronounced elimination of the Provinces, the revision of bicameralism, the new form of government, are hiding more ready to satisfy those interests of which I have spoken before, again to the detriment of the citizens. Wouldn't adopting a semi-presidency system as a form of government be a counter-reform rather than a reform? It is not the idea of participatory democracy that is foreseen in our Constitution, but the investiture of one man, bearer and guarantor of a series of established interests. The procedure for revising the Constitution (Article 138) already exists. But now we are debating another procedure, undoubtedly forced, which does not belong to the parliamentary assemblies, thus circumventing ordinary procedures, and precisely this forcing is the manifest manifestation of the inability of the current political class. And what about the reform of the electoral law? The democratic issue is a fundamental issue. We cannot but fight for it and we are absolutely not prepared to resign ourselves. The reform of the Constitution cannot be left in the hands of a few: it should be a work shared by the whole of Parliament. On one point, above all, I would like to focus on and clarify: those who really want to change normally are an innovator and the novelties are the lifeblood of political life. That is why those who are the bearers of innovation should have a position of advantage. Unfortunately, it seems to me to see again a situation of pathological staticity, which brings back to memory a phrase of the "Gattopardo" (the famous novel by Tomasi di Lampedusa): "Everything changes so that nothing changes." In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a slightly broader speech, which is not just about the Constitution. If we want to change the country we have to change ourselves, we have to change the Rules of Procedure of both the Senate and the House. I don't know what your previous activities were: I was just a computer scientist for a multinational transport company. Today, in the Commission, there had to be an answer to a question: the Government was not present; the rapporteur had to be there, but he was not present. Is that the way to work? I don't think so. We must have the strength and courage to change not only the Constitution, but the things that do not go with the rules of order provided by the Constitution itself, and not changing the rules to shorten the path, to find a shortcut, to facilitate the work that you are not able to do by following the rules. Then I wanted to address a criticism to Senator Zanettin, who left the Chamber, since he allowed himself to accuse the 5 Star Movement. Unfortunately, he was not present in the last legislature. He skipped it. I am sure, however, that if he had been present when it was necessary to vote if Ruby, the acquired Egyptian, was Mubarak's nephew, he would certainly have voted against because "he" is a person who stands out. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u18	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional bill under the heading 'Institution of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms' has arrived in this House after the very sweaty scrutiny and even sanctioned in terms of suspending the work of the House, as was the case in the other branch of Parliament, which saw a non-obstructional struggle of the 5 Star Movement, but a "constructionist" struggle to defend the article establishing the procedures for amending the Constitutional Charter. In order to understand the intellectual and political debate, interwoven in recent months around this constitutional arrangement, perhaps we should start from its very content. And indeed Article 138 states: The laws of revision of the Constitution and other constitutional laws are adopted by each Chamber with two successive deliberations at an interval of not less than three months, and are approved by an absolute majority of the members of each Chamber in the second vote. The laws themselves are subject to popular referendum when, within three months of their publication, one fifth of the members of a House, five hundred thousand voters or five regional councils apply. The law submitted to a referendum shall not be enacted unless it is approved by a majority of valid votes. A referendum shall not take place if the law has been passed in the second vote by each of the Chambers by a two-thirds majority of its members. Therefore, to modify or derogate from it would be to open the way for the much-discussed reforms. You will all remember that already in summer the battle on Article 138 of the Constitution filled the front pages of the newspapers and not only. In defense of Article 138, in fact, the 5 Star Movement occupied Montecitorio in order to communicate to the public what was happening and above all what changes were going on under the table and to the unawares of the voters were making to our Constitutional Charter. Precisely because the voters were unaware of everything, the Movement decided to restore sovereignty to the citizens, giving them the opportunity to choose their representatives and to revoke them in case they do not comply with the mandate or in case of serious failure. The political task for us is a service to citizenship, temporary, and not a tool to build a managerial career for enrichment purposes. In order to understand our battle, perhaps we should make a clarification that I am sure will not be so obscure: the Constitution of the Italian Republic is a rigid text. What does this mean? That is hierarchically placed above ordinary law and can be modified only by constitutional laws. There are also specific limits to the constitutional revision, including Article 138, which defines norms and times, and Article 139, which defines the republican nature of our country as unchangeable, just as the first twelve articles containing fundamental principles are considered unchangeable. Article 138 provides that the laws amending the Constitution and other constitutional laws shall be adopted by each Chamber with two successive votes at intervals not less than three months (two for the Chamber and two for the Senate, crossed). No qualified majority is required for the first vote, so constitutional law can also be adopted by a simple majority; absolute majority is required in the second vote. In the event that the law is not passed by at least two thirds, it is possible to submit it to a referendum of a confirmation type, without quorum, if one fifth of the members of a Chamber or 500,000 voters or five regional councils so request. The law submitted to a referendum shall not be enacted unless it is approved by a majority of valid votes. It is obvious that we want to put our hands on the instruments of revision of the Constitution so that we can change it radically and quickly. The reason behind this provision is therefore that the Constitution is the cause of the decline of the ruling classes. Instead, it is the exact opposite: we are all witnesses of the progressive decline of politics, so much so that we want to upset the Constitution. However, driven by an impeccable extra-ordinam procedure, we have come to a far-reaching constitutional reform, but here it seems that there is only what remains of a bicycle to pedal to distant lands, to lands where citizens can express themselves as they did after the Second World War. But let's move on. The government's remaining office is linked to the achievement of this goal within a set deadline, and not to the resolution of the political nodes of greatest concern for the citizens, that is, the way out of this damn economic and social crisis. But this is not urgent for the majority; it is urgent. The Commission's stated aim, its only policy point, is to derogate from Article 138 in order to approve, very quickly, an extraordinary revision of the Charter from its very foundation. After all, we're seeing surgery, we're amputating our country's legs, and who knows what we're gonna do again. It is not a matter of restructuring, on which the 5 Star Movement would have the will and perhaps also the pleasure of confronting the majority, in the wake of the lines drawn by the constituent Fathers. The idea of the government and the majority who support it is that of a demolition, a reconstruction of the entire institutional architecture, and this is demonstrated by three elements. Meanwhile, the central role in the reform process is not at the two chambers, but at the Committee and at the Government. Then, the timing, particularly tight of the schedule, which must be achieved within the peremptory period of eighteen months, with all the possible consequences on the function of Parliament, now downgraded to mere beautiful statue. Nobody wants to admit it, but what we are trying to do at the moment is to restrict the political rights of the parliamentary minority forces to a minimum. We understand that, ladies and gentlemen. Not to mention that the critical profiles found in the measure are many, and do not concern only the constitutional law: in many cases they affect and even violate the principles and procedural rules laid down by the parliamentary regulations. For example, the Committee is given powers and functions by way of derogation from the parliamentary regulations themselves, thus placing it in an over-ordinate position vis-à-vis Parliament itself. No one, apart from us in the minority, admits that this draft law tramples on the most basic principles of democratic representation, which are all the more important to safeguard in the composition of a Committee that wants to assume the prerogative of amending the Constitution. Or rather, no one says that the famous Committee will incarnate the souls of our constituent Fathers, giving itself a sort of power of self-regulation. The 5 Star Movement is radically opposed, both to the constitutional revision procedure and to the object of the same, as outlined by this provision. The derogation from the rule governing the process of revising the Constitution turns this Parliament into an impotent constituent assembly. Not to mention that the same sovereignty, which belongs to the people, must be exercised in the forms and limits established by the Constitution. On the other hand, what we are witnessing, and it is inconceivable, is that this principle should be derogated from by a restricted Committee chosen by political representatives appointed by the party secretariats. It's just a pretext. It is only a way of surreptitiously covering the void of the political atrophy of this bipolarism, which everything says, except to be perfect. The most angry thing is that illustrious university teachers, experts in law, have declared that this is a real illegal disapplication of Article 138, in order to make changes to the Constitution without the necessary respect of this rule. But how can we propose a derogation from Article 138? The norm is that which in fact guarantees our Constitutional Charter, the wall of containment of the arbitrariness of political power, especially that of the majorities of government. The rigidity of our Constitution is a good and just thing. It is worth remembering that it was precisely the flexibility of the Albertino Statute that allowed the transition to dictatorship by legal means. This attempt to circumvent the Article 138 procedure is constitutionally unlawful, as it violates fundamental principles which are taken away from the same parliamentary power. The current draft law in fact constitutes an extraordinary and exceptional procedure for the constitutional text, both from a procedural point of view and from the point of view of the bodies involved in amending the Republican Constitution. Of course we in the 5 Star Movement have not so far defended the Constitution without admitting that it needs some changes, but it is certain that the latter must take place in compliance with the rules. The 5 Star Movement does not understand the reasons that drive the majority to go towards presidentialism, that is, more power to the President of the Council, with further emptying of sense and power of Parliament, which would become a mere body of ratification. But then the criticism that has moved, and even today moves, the Movement starts from a question: do you explain to me what the Parliament will need after the adoption of this law? Why don't we get up and go home? The 5 Star Movement does not want to make simple obstructionism, it wants to give centrality back to Parliament, with the clear separation between the legislative power, held precisely by us parliamentarians, and the executive power of the Government, keeping away the judicial power. Parliament must regain its central role in the process of revising our Constitutional Charter. The abandonment of the normal procedure of examination, explicitly provided for in Article 72 of the Constitution for the examination of draft laws in constitutional matters, the granting to the Government of a privileged amending power, the impossibility for individual parliamentarians to submend the proposals of the Government or of the Committee, the prohibition for parliamentarians in disagreement with their Groups to present their sub-amendments, the derogations provided for in the Chamber and Senate Regulations constitute as many choices that humiliate and compress the autonomy and freedom of the parliamentarians and therefore the role and legislative function of the Parliament. Maybe we need to read the book XI de "The spirit of the laws" of Montesquieu, where we trace the theory of the separation of powers. Article 138 of the Constitution remains the last bulwark against anti-institutional drifts and to defend democracy and our future. I close my speech with the words of Don Luigi Sturzo, who I hope can torment your minds at the time of the vote, indeed I hope they can take away your sleep if necessary: The Constitution is the foundation of the Republic. If it falls from the heart of the people, if it is not respected by the political authorities, if it is not defended by the Government and by Parliament, if it is tampered with by the parties, the hard ground on which our institutions are manufactured and anchored our freedoms will fail. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u20	Colleagues, I warn you that the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups has approved changes to the current timetable. At today's sitting, for which there are no suspensions and closing times, the general discussion of the constitutional bill for the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reform will continue until its conclusion. Replies and explanations of vote will take place at the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 23 October. The afternoon session of tomorrow, beginning at 9 a.m., provides for the examination of the motion on Telecom Italia's corporate structures; the ratification of the Albania, Greece and Italy Agreement on the project "Trans Adriatic Pipeline" as well as the motion on the process of democratization in Myanmar. For the discussion of these measures, the Conference of Heads of Group gave a mandate to the Presidency to harmonise the timetable. The Budget Commission and the other committees which have on their agenda items which are due to expire, including in view of the budgetary session, shall be authorised to meet during the general discussions. In relation to the timing of the transmission of financial documents by the Government, the President's communications, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure, on the bill of stability - if not carried out on the day of tomorrow - can be placed on the agenda of the sitting on Tuesday 22 October. The other topics already included in the timetable of proceedings remain confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u21	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met this morning with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current schedule of proceedings: [[Wednesday 16 October ant. h. 9,30 - Following constitutional bill n. 813-B - Establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms (Second Resolution of the Senate) (final vote with the absolute majority of the members of the Senate) Thursday 17 October ant. h. 9 - Motion n. 160, Cows, on the corporate structure of Telecom Italia - Drawing of Law n. 384 - Ratifica Agreement Albania, Greece and Italy on the project "Trans Adriatic Pipeline" - Motion n. 149, Ghedini Rita, on the process of democratization in Myanmar - Communications of the President, pursuant to Article 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Regulation, on the content of the bill of stability (*) Thursday 17 October pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion on: Ø programming and management of the European Structural Funds; Ø territorial cohesion policies (*) The President's communications on the content of the Stability Act may take place during the afternoon or afternoon session (after the question time) of Thursday 17 in relation to the work of the Budget Commission. Immediately after the President's communications, the draft Stability and Budget Laws will be assigned to the 5th Permanent Commission in the referee and to the other Commissions in the consultative session. The budget session will begin from then on. The Commission will forward its reports to the Budget Commission by Tuesday 29 October. Further discussion of financial documents will be decided by a subsequent Conference of Leaders.]] [[Tuesday 22 October pom. h. 16 - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the Brussels European Council of 24 and 25 October 2013 - Communications by the President, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure, on the content of the draft Stability Act (Ove not carried out on Thursday 17 October) Wednesday 23 October ant. h. 9,30-13 - Replicas, explanations of vote and final vote ddl constitutional n. 813-B - Institution of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms (Second Resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Possible follow-up of unfinished topics - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 102, IMU (Ove transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the maneuver of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) " (Scade on 30 October) " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 24 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16 Friday 25 " ant. h. 9,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law No... (Decree-Law No 102, IMU) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Monday, October 28 pom. h. 16,30 (if necessary) - Eventually followed draft law n.... - Decree-Law n. 102, IMU (Linked to the maneuver of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (It falls on 30 October) Tuesday 29 " ant. h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] Without prejudice to the possible follow-up of the examination of Decree-Law No 102 the week from 28 to 31 October will be reserved for the work of the Commissions in relation to the budgetary session and the decree-laws in expiration. Should the House of Deputies approve with amendments Decree-Law 101 on public administration, already approved by the Senate and due to expire on 30 October, the schedule of the week will be supplemented by the examination of this provision and the Presidency may provide for further meetings for its discussion. Time distribution for communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 24 and 25 October 2013 (3 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, of which: PD 35' PdL 31' M5S 21' SCp 14' LN-Aut 13' Mixed 13' GAL 12' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 12' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 102, IMU) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 09' PdL 1 h. 01' M5S 42' SCp 28' LN-Aut 26' Mixed 26' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u24	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I have waited for you to read the conclusions of the Conference of Leaders to point out that we still do not see the Minister for institutional reform on the benches of the Government. I find all this very disdainful: I say it in a very explicit way and with all respect for the Subsecretary present. I really don't understand how this kind of behavior can be done. By the way, we should stop the debate, because yesterday the Minister has just begun the general discussion. It is true that he went to the Council of Ministers, even though he is the Minister for institutional reform and should therefore have been here and not there, but he continues this absence today. Frankly, Mr President, I do not understand why you - and therefore the Presidency - do not take charge of asking the Minister for your presence. I would therefore ask you to stop the debate until Mr Quagliariello is here. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u25	Your observation is well-founded. However, the government is formally present, so I believe that the debate should also take place in the light of our timetable. However, we will insist that Mr Quagliariello come as soon as possible, because I believe that the debate should be followed by him personally.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u26	Let us resume the general discussion. Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u27	Gentlemen, you've already decided. The discussions that have been taking place for hours are of no use, because this Parliament is now a theatre, as some activists have said, where each of us plays its part, but there is no listening. There is no dialogue in this place, which should be that of decisions. You're deaf, because decisions aren't made here! I do not know if, in your personal intimacy, in your bedrooms, doubt assaults you, but surely this doubt does not touch you in these classrooms. Even the absence of the Minister shows this: the decisions have already been taken and no matter what my colleagues will say, what I will say, what the citizens have said in the demonstrations in the streets, what has been said in the appeals of illustrious constitutionalists and representatives of culture. It does not matter that one of the parties, on the contrary, one of the movements that has the greatest representation in these classrooms, has also gone up to the roof of Parliament to make clear its opposition to this bill. It does not matter the collection of signatures that has been made, because you citizens do not listen to them. Then I wonder what you think you are, who you think you are. I believe you believe the gods of Olympus, but you are nothing but the merchants of the temple. We are sure that you are only the merchants of the temple. The doubt, gentlemen, should always accompany all of us. I read you a few sentences, which you will surely know and which you would also be able to repeat, in this House or elsewhere, in your living rooms, but which you certainly do not know the meaning of. [[Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] : It is indisputable that only those who believe in the truth can doubt it (Zagrebelsky); Of all things safe, the most certain is doubt (Brecht); "Doubt grows with knowledge" (Goethe). But when did you prove to have the doubt, a moment of pause, of reflection on things? When and to whom did you respond that you wanted to address this attack at the heart of the Constitution? I would also like to repeat the simple words of a constitutionalist note, which have been repeated by my colleague from the Left and Freedom: Why is it proposed to carry out this reform? From what need is it moved and to get what? Gentlemen, we are talking more and more about the method and we are not going into it, but I want to go over this again. What is Article 138? Article 138 is contained in Title VI, which is entitled 'Constitutional guarantees'. Do you feel the beauty of these two words? Constitutional guarantees: these are still two words that give me a sense of peace, strength and tranquillity. And what are these constitutional guarantees? In Section I, there are provisions concerning the Constitutional Court, while in Section II there are only two articles, 138 and 139, those governing the revision of the Constitution. Gentlemen, we are talking about the key to the Constitution, the heart, the lock, as someone said, that you are preparing to break in. You're changing the Constitution with a bolt. We are not opposed to the amendment of the Constitution, but we have the instructions to do so. Why start like this? Why this will, against the will of Italian citizenship and intelligence? Why do we insist that we continue and proceed in this way? What's the difference? Why? The doubt. I would like to understand what constitutional guarantee means. Did you ask yourself that? Guarantee, according to Zingarelli, is insurance of the fulfilment of a commitment, of an obligation. It's a guarantee of something's success. And, again, it is protection, care, custody - gentlemen, listen - protection, protection, surveillance, surveillance. Here, the constitutional guarantees are to protect the Constitution. We have to stop playing with words. I have repeatedly found myself in this House repeating this, because we play a shameful game of Italian: we use words to say the opposite of what they mean. We must give credit to these terms; we must restore value to words and their meaning, because the language transmits entities, thoughts and values. But if we were to start on the subject, the situation would already be very, very worrying, because there is a compression of Parliament' s functions, already in the process, with regard to the Commissions. And there is a strengthening of the prerogatives of the government, again. We already assist every sacred day, with all the decrees-laws that come to us, to a House that ratifys the decisions of the Government. We saw it when the President was wrong and said: the government approves. Everyone voted in favour. Then the President, on the contrary, was a president, said: no, I was wrong, the Government disapproves. And they all changed their vows. What are we doing here, gentlemen, besides taking our wages and ratifying decisions that are taken elsewhere? Do they want to regain dignity in the work we are doing? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I'd like to remind you of one more thing. In 2006 there was a referendum that rejected the idea of an absolute Premier by a large majority. This process towards presidentialism does not even take account of this umpteenth referendum, because citizens, citizenship, the people, or whatever you want to call it, have no value for you. Who elected you at the bottom? It was not the Italian people who elected you; it was not even to us, but at least we were chosen by some Members. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] Yes, we have been chosen by the Members of Parliament. On the other hand, gentlemen, you were chosen simply by the parties, and certainly according to the criterion that you would have less annoyed the choices of the Government, which moves on choices that who knows where they happen and to which interests they respond. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I'm glad I solicited your interest! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please allow Senator Nugnes to continue her intervention. Now one last, useless appeal. Actually, no, I'd like to say something else. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u28	He continued his speech, Senator Nugnes, addressing the entire Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u29	NUGNES (M5S). As far as the Commission is concerned, I believe that if the decisions and assessments of the Commission had returned to the relevant Commissions, and then to the House, it could also have been an interesting process: to listen to thirty-five well-known constitutionalists sitting at a table and assess what are the most important measures to be taken. However, on this too there is a doubt of legitimacy, and I am not the only one asking it: on 11 July Lorenza Carlassare and in August Nadia Urbinati, who were part of the 35, therefore constitutionalist notes, who considered that there were doubts of legitimacy because of the behaviour of the President of the Commission, who expressed a greater interest for a premier than for the institutions. These are not my words, which is why this certainly makes our idea of this Commission falter. Not least, it happens that five of the 35 investigated for the "Do ut des " survey are part of this Commission, which really disturbs me. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] Again, we learn that Violante, who was chosen to write the final report, was not chosen by the Commission itself but by the Government. Gentlemen, line up all these words: doubt, guarantee, legitimacy. What are we talking about? What are we doing? Then, I return to the last, useless, appeal; needless, because when you speak to the deaf you should speak by making your lips, your signs, your heart follow; but you do not listen, because otherwise there would be the hope that a different decision might be taken in this House. I do this out of duty: return their role to Parliament and to Members of Parliament; put the amendment process back on the tracks of the constitutional dictation. Thank you, gentlemen. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u30	I would like to address the Assembly's greeting to a representation of students from the Liceo delle Scienze umani "Duca D'Aosta" in Padua, today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u31	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u32	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore at the third parliamentary passage for this constitutional bill, which is the foundation of the Committee on Constitutional and Electoral Reforms. A need, ladies and gentlemen, which is widely shared: to reform the institutional structure of the State and to revise the Constitutional Charter; a need which finds its inspiration from below, from the expectations and expectations felt by citizens, from civil society. The whole of society calls for a new institutional structure, which requires structural changes capable of redesigning the organisation of the State in a more dynamic and functional way. This need for change has so far encountered, in fact, insurmountable obstacles, and it has always had to clash with the orthodox, shortsighted and ideological positions of the ultras - would have to be called so - of the theory of the intangibility of the Constitution. Let us remember all the paladins of this pre-constituted pseudo vision, which raised the Constitution as if it were a real totem, manifesting their dissent against any will for change. 11:29 a.m. (Bisinella followed). Over the years, ideological, conservative and retro-guard positions have produced a frightening immobility and serious damage to the country: a latent, widespread inertia that has weakened it, putting it at risk of an insane stagnation. Even in these days, in these hours, we are witnessing, by the M5S Group, a sterile and demagogic obstruction that runs counter to the needs felt by the citizens. So, maybe a certain meltdown with the real world of citizens has it. Looks like it's a brand-new cat paddle. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We can no longer afford this stagnation: companies, workers, families and society as a whole can no longer afford it. We must therefore at last proceed to implement the reforms we are debating and, indeed, speed up. This time, we must produce, after so many words, after so many chatters, concrete results. The hypocrisy of conservative and anachronistic attitudes has not in fact allowed in all these years to achieve a substantial change in the organizational structure of this State, really capable of going to affect the system in a dominant way, redesigning it from its foundations and making it finally able in its new structure to face the changes of society, hit by the serious economic crisis that we are facing, and thus able to place itself as a more serious and reliable competitor in the new international and European context. The international economic situation that has hit the world and which has had serious repercussions also in our country has brought out all the evils of a still system, suffering from an elephant bureaucracy, unable to make the administrators, increasingly distant from the real needs of the citizens, an unproductive and charitable system, inadequate to the valorization of the territories, organized without any respect for the principles of horizontal and vertical subsidiarity, phagocited by a self-referential policy forgets its primary task of researching the common good and based exclusively on client consent. What was to be done and not done in all these years is now improcrastinable. People no longer accept the art-orchestrated palace games to slow down the reforms that are now unavoidable, starting with the cuts in the costs of politics, the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, a true fiscal and administrative federalism. Such things would have already been done if ideological contrasts - precisely orchestrated in art - had not blocked the constitutional reform of the devolution made in 2005. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] A reform, colleagues, that anticipated the times and debates of these years and of these last days, which already provided for the establishment of the Federal Senate - it must be said - and therefore the end of the perfect bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, changes to the process of formation of the laws to simplify it and the system of government, providing greater powers to the Prime Minister, but also interventions on the judicial order, a fiscal federalism for a fairer distribution of public resources between the center and the suburbs. These things would already be implemented. Let's remember that fiscal federalism is the current law of this state and would immediately bring extra benefits and resources in the state coffers if implemented; just think of the application of the standard costs in all the Regions and also in the government and state apparatuses. Too bad that you, like the last technical government, kept him tightly locked in a drawer, for lack of courage in achieving it and making it accomplished. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It is in fact more comfortable to overside, pretend that it is not so, rather than intervene to finally make certain areas and certain apparatuses of the country that still allow themselves to waste resources, so much then there is someone who intervenes to repay! But this can no longer be and will not be possible any longer! My group and I hope that the reform process, which can no longer be postponed through this Committee, which is now being set up, and the revision of Article 138 of the Constitution, will actually start. That is to say, we will finally see the reform process finally and concretely completed in this legislature. The real, unique warning, for this strange, rocambolesca - it comes to say - majority must be the need to quickly reach a radical change of the State system that restores dignity to the institutions and attenuates the widespread feeling of disaffection of citizens towards politics and institutions all. The President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers himself, in his programme statements last April on the constitutional reforms on which he was confident, repeatedly stressed the need to do everything possible and also the impossible to close the reform process of Part II of the Constitution and the consequent electoral reform, with the completion and implementation of fiscal federalism. On the contrary, when he gave his inaugural speech last April he spoke of constitutional reforms saying: "The only possible outlet for this issue is the success in approving the reforms that the country has been waiting for too long." Let's see if it's finally like this, if you really go from words, from proclamations, to deeds. We and the citizens all sincerely have many legitimate reasons to doubt, if we think above all about all the other issues that this Government is inconclusive and incapable of, from work, to employment, passing through economic growth, the reduction of the tax burden, the relationship with the territories and the self-governments. To hear rumors about the law of stability that just yesterday the Council of Ministers launched, well, doubts grow indeed; other than that you don't put your hands in the pockets of the citizens, other than that you don't increase taxes. In any case, on the subject of reforms and in the face of the needs of the country, with a sense of responsibility and with the consistency that always distinguishes us in pursuing all the ways that can lead to the complete transformation of this centralist state towards a model of true federalism, we on this front keep cooperative and we will vote in favour of this measure. However, I should like to conclude by reminding you that there are no alibi left. The overcoming of a centralist vision of architecture and state administration is the country's only hope for recovery. Otherwise, if the reforms are not implemented this time, it will be the citizens who will rebel and really send us all home! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u35	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I have already referred the matter to the President-in-Office of the Council. As you can see, the Minister for Constitutional Reform is still not present. I find this very serious. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You want to change the Constitution, but you don't understand... at least the sense of duty! The sense of duty that is no longer there in this country. This is the example given by the Ministers and the Government! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What should a Minister of Constitutional Reform do if he is not in the Chamber when we are discussing the constitutional bill, President? It is a total lack of respect, a total irresponsibility, a total lack of sense of duty. This is no longer tolerable! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] He's well paid!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u36	Excuse me, Senator De Petris, but I feel obliged to give you information on this. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). It is a pantomime: it is paid well! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I must interrupt you, because they are known to this House, and to those who have been part of it in the past legislature, the seriousness and dedication to the parliamentary and government work of the minister, as well as Senator Quagliariello, who is not feeling well and, despite this, will try to participate in our work. There are no political reasons or contempt for this House. I feel that I bear witness to this, also because of the direct knowledge I have of Minister Quagliariello, in order to prevent you - rightly, not knowing this aspect - from making statements that have no foundation. In any case, I recall that the Undersecretary, representing the Government, is present in the Chamber. As soon as his physical condition permits, Mr Quagliariello will be present in the Chamber. It's just a malaise. [[Comments from Senators Santangelo and Crimes.]] DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I take note of that, but any worker must carry the medical certificate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I remember we're not ASL. I'm not a doctor, so I don't have to certify. However, I can testify to the seriousness of Mr Quagliariello and I would ask you to take note of that. So let us proceed with the other speeches. [[Senator De Petris' comments.]] Excuse me, Senator De Petris, but you made an observation and I gave you an answer. Have respect for what I told you. [[Senator De Petris' comments.]] It's useless. The government is represented. If a minister is ill, this is not why Parliament and democracy stop. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). The debate will resume when the Minister is well.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u39	MARTELLI (M5S). I speak not only in the light of what Mrs De Petris has just said, because this is a feeling that we also have. It is unacceptable that the representative of the government, the Minister... But if she's sick, she can't expect... The Government is represented here. I take note of your comment. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] MARTELLI (M5S). Excuse me, ma'am, but... You've already intervened. I repeat that Mr Quagliariello has been urged, despite his illness, to come to this House and will do so absolutely. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Let him talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's already intervened. MARTELLI (M5S). I have to finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please intervene. I thought you finished your speech. MARTELLI (M5S). I told her eight times I wasn't done. In view of this, we therefore call for a suspension of the work of the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u40	The government is represented.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u41	MARTELLI (M5S). We do not think it is adequately represented; let us put this request to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u42	The Conference of Heads of Group decided unanimously on the procedure for the sitting. So the Minister, while not feeling well, will still come to the House to take part in the proceedings. I repeat that the government is represented here, so we have no regulatory reason to suspend the sitting. As Mr Quagliariello is aware of the right request, I believe that although he is ill, he will be able to be here as soon as possible. I repeat, those who know Mr Quagliariello know that he has no reason not to be present in our work. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). It's been missing since yesterday. It's a long illness. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Look, I don't know about yesterday. Yesterday there was the Council of Ministers on the law of stability; that is not the reason today. You know well, Senator, that my respect for the work of this House and the substance of politics is such that I am not here to say things that are not true.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u45	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I have no doubt about Mr Quagliariello's motives. However, I remember very calmly that yesterday Minister Quagliariello, leaving this House, made a commitment to us today. However, this is another sensitive issue: the Presidency of this House this morning suspended, at the beginning of our work, the sitting for ten or fifteen minutes - correct me if I am wrong - precisely in order to allow Mr Quagliariello to make up for the delay. We didn't...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u46	Senator Cervellini, it is not that, if we re-examine the matter, the problem of a person who is ill is solved. I understand. The Government is represented and Minister Quagliariello has been urged. I repeat that he is a very serious person, I do not know if any other colleague can certify...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u47	If you'll allow me to continue...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u48	Senator, if you can finish... But it is not that if one is sick and has been urged to come, if you intervene...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u49	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Let him talk! CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Respect for the Presidency makes me take exactly what is said, namely that the Minister would have been urged; of these demands this House knew nothing. We learn from you for the first time that there are health reasons, which I do not at all allow myself to criticize. However, in applying them, I ask myself a question: while respecting also the health reasons, having already lost much of yesterday's debate - indeed everything - and much of the debate so far, I think that perhaps we should consider, given that this information was also not aware of the Conference of the Leaders, the opportunity to suspend...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u50	Senator, as the Minister will come, despite his illness, I would say to continue the debate. Mr Quagliariello will come because he has been urged. After that, the Presidency is not required to make a medical bulletin; I do so, inviting everyone to be serious, and at this point I would ask you to take note of it. [[Comments of Senator Crimes]] The seriousness must be of everyone. I'm not the administrator of the ASL. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). She said he's sick, not us.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u53	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, I believe that the seriousness and dedication of Senator Quagliariello is out of the question. I personally saw him enter the medical clinic this morning. After that, even yesterday...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u54	We cannot open a debate on this. There are also reasons for confidentiality and protection of the rights of the person, to which I call on the House to stick. I thank President Finocchiaro, but we must not do direct streaming from clinics here. We're a little serious. [[Applause from the PD Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Let her talk. You take it seriously! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll call you back to order, Senator. Go on, President Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u55	...afterwards, I said, yesterday, moving away for the Council of Ministers, Minister Quagliariello said something that is obvious, and that each of us knows, so if today, for reasons of necessity, is absent, he has had all the rest and the opportunity to read the debate on the shorthand report. The Government is present in the Chamber: I frankly do not understand the reasons why we should suspend this sitting, which is very long, full of speeches that can be learned from the Minister and from any of us who were absent by reading the reports. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). This is an innovation: it means that from now on Ministers may not come.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u56	Mr Quagliariello, who was further urged in the course of your speeches, is still on his way to the Chamber. I do not think we need to have a debate on clinics; we also need some respect and seriousness. So let us continue with the general discussion. Senator D'Ascola is registered to speak, and I believe he will also speak, bearing in mind that the Government is represented in the Chamber. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u57	Mr President, I believe that there is a preliminary question that needs to be clarified, having listened to most of the speeches that have taken place so far. There is a kind of confessional vision, a fidelistic vision of our Constitution, which must obviously be refuted: this is not a law written by God, but by men; we must obviously relativize the value of a law, even though it is fundamental, such as the Constitution. Now, if we are legislators - if it is completely inappropriate, because of course we are - there is no doubt that we must select the most relevant circumstances in the context of our society. The legislator's work progresses if the legislator is able to understand what is really important, in relation to the needs that characterize a certain historical moment. The Senate will forgive me for the absolutely concise and rapid nature of my exposition, because to evoke all the phases of our most recent history that have determined the needs before us today would obviously be too challenging from the point of view of the times, which must inevitably be reduced. In short, the crisis of politics, the lack of credibility of politics are particularly marked on the side of a historical issue, already when the so-called first Republic existed: the inefficiency of Parliament, the general inefficiency of the State, the need to have political majorities that are stable over time, that are also certain, in order to allow the necessary orientation of the electorate towards one or the other politically feasible option. Even the rule of alternation, on which all of us rightly dwell, inevitably implies the need to be able to have a political majority that, over the five years normally destined for the course of the legislature, can try to implement a political program that otherwise would remain entrusted to too short time spaces and inevitably could not even be implemented; so, speaking of alternation obviously means exercising something absolutely theoretical, without any practical feasibility. We are then faced with a complex of needs that distinguish the need to modernise our constitutional structure and our institutional relations, by virtue of the need to guarantee citizens, thus recovering with the electorate that relationship of trust and credibility that makes politics strong, a panorama of interventions we could say reformers of our Constitution. On the other hand, we must think very carefully about what constitutes the dominant value of our present Constitution, with reference to the part of the constitutional dictation that we intend to amend today. There is no doubt that what we would like to change, namely the perfect bicameralism, the number of parliamentarians, the form of government, obeys, in the current constitutional order, what in 1947, therefore after fascism and after the Second World War, constituted an absolutely important value, that is, to guarantee a system of controls so exasperated that it makes impossible an authoritarian, if not totalitarian, drift of the State. That was the goal of 1947. If, then, we are legislators, if we are to identify the relevant element in the context not only of our society, but also of the demands that arise at such a dramatic moment on the economic side, making it necessary to streamline parliamentary procedures, ensuring that legislative texts are adopted more quickly, we must inevitably agree that the prevailing value in 1947, namely the control of one House over another, of one power over another, this rigorous balance of powers, has become something that no longer corresponds to current needs and needs. Today those risks of authoritarian or totalitarian involution of the State are completely unimaginable, so we are facing constitutional values that are inevitably set. We could say that those constitutional values were inevitably transitory, because they obeyed the contingency of a historical moment that has now finally passed, I would say now with reference to an appreciable period of time, if it is true that these requirements of modernising our Constitution on this limited side were already affirmed when the so-called first Republic was alive. On the other hand, Senators, it is inevitable that there is a reflection here on a circumstance, on which, however, it would seem distracted the attention of those who protest for a modification, like the one desired, of the current constitutional structure: here no one thinks of modifying the fundamental values on which the Constitution is based. In contrast to the conclusions, a newly intervened senator spoke of the first 12 articles of the Constitution such as those containing the so-called hard clog, at least defined as such by our most current constitutionalists, namely those norms that contain the form, republican, of the State, the foundation of our Republic at work today, inevitably, its solidaristic inspiration, the attention to the world of work through the desired intervention of precautionary norms that make that of work a truly peaceful context, the protection of the fundamental values of the human person, not only as an individual, but also within society and in the intermediate space within the organizations that stand out between society and individuals, in which these fundamental rights must be realized. Here there is no talk of modifying the obligation contained in Article 3, which the Constitution and the Republic assume, aimed at removing the obstacles that limit the realization of the human person within society, of all the organizations and intermediate statutes between person and society. There is no question of a very fundamental value here. Today, no one could think of a Constitution that, for example, did not regulate the indispensable principle of equality of citizens before the law, the need to provide for equal situations, regardless of the starting economic position. Certainly the achievement of the final objectives must then be subordinate to the merit of each individual. Having thought, as some have unfortunately done, of an inevitably egalitarian society has depowered our society and has made merit appear irrelevant, leading to a general lowering of the intellectual level; moreover, it is easy to verify only that we inform, read or listen to debates, which seem extremely inattentive precisely with reference to values such as rigour, deepening, intellectual and valuable content of the debate. Today we are proposing a legislative amendment to our Constitution, which, according to the report, to the work that has been read - for those who have obviously read them and have not thought of intervening by slogans, pursuing impossible electoral consensus - aims at the elimination of bicameralism. I believe that there can be no political force that today can approve of a perfect bicameralism like that of which we have suffered so far (I use the participle past not by chance, because it is indicative of the difficulties that stand in the way of the speed of political decisions that must place us at the same level as other European countries). At the same time, as regards the link between electoral law, such as something posterior, form of government and elimination of the perfect bicameralism, we have finally realized that we will never have an electoral law that allows certain and stable majorities if we have not first eliminated this unnecessary duplication of legislative competences. Then there is the proposed reduction in the number of Members of Parliament; here, perhaps, I would be a little more cautious, having now known the complexity of the state mechanism. In short, these are reforms - and I conclude, Mr President - on which I do not believe that anyone can seriously object to anything if we look at the content I am therefore very much in favour of the fact that the machine of our State can actually be aged immediately (then there will be explanations of vote). [[Applause from the PDL, SCPI and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u58	Colleagues, I would like to thank Minister Quagliariello for his presence, even if the Government was still present, and regret that even personal problems were the subject of exchange of views in the Assembly, having personally given public testimony of the seriousness and dedication to the parliamentary and government work of Minister Quagliariello. Therefore, issues covered by privacy have become grounds for discussion. The Minister has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u59	Mr President, I wanted to apologise to my colleagues for having had a fever and I went to the clinic where the staff, whom I would like to thank, subjected me to inhalations. Then I had to go and get my back crumpled. I have to say, in these situations, government armchairs don't help. Anyway, I'm going back to apologizing to the House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr Quagliariello, you did not need to apologize for the obvious circumstances and it was unfortunate that they were not taken by all colleagues. Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u61	Mr President, I am the spokesperson for a document drawn up by the magistrates of the Area, a coordination between magistrates of various components and origins, and - I do not want to be Senator Bisinella, with the kindness with which I always address her - I will speak for about 40 comments that I received between 23 and 24 last night on this subject, which demonstrate our total glue to the citizens, and not neckline. The Co-ordination of Magistrates states: The process of reform of the Constitution undertaken by the Government of the "boundary agreements" and coagulated in the draft constitutional law of government initiative n. 813 of 2013 - establishing the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms - raises concern; concern confirmed by the latest statements of the President of the Council, who, in the debate on confidence, re-launched the need to proceed rapidly on the ground of constitutional reforms. Following on from what happened with the establishment of the bicameral Commission of 2007 - Constitutional Law of 24 January 1997, No. 1, which had been hesitated in a failure - once again, the Charter was replaced by a derogation from Article 138 thereof and the configuration of an extraordinary procedure for revising Titles I, II, III and V of Part Two and of the strictly related rules. In the name of an alleged effectiveness of the reform measure and of the urgency imposed by the needs of the economy, the procedural exacerbations sculpted in Article 138 are removed and reduced to a bulwark of the rigidity of the Charter and its patrimony of inviolable rights, social justice and the dimension of the democratic and pluralist state. The dismantling of the procedural guarantees of Article 138 is represented by the reduction of the interval between the first and the second approval by each Chamber - the so-called pause for reflection - from the minimum period of three months to the minimum period of 45 days and is supplemented by the acceleration of the so-called timetable: parliamentary work will have to be organised in such a way that it will be completed within eighteen months of the entry into force of the constitutional law establishing the Committee. These simplifications and accelerations are only partly tempered by the possibility of carrying out the popular referendum even in case of second approval by each House with a two-thirds majority. A process of revision, therefore, - the magistrates point out - which could extend to the radical change of the form of government and which for the moment leaves only the weariness of the principle of rigidity of the Constitution, the attraction of the process of constitutional revision in the orbit of the function of political direction and the development of a dangerous expedient - the derogation from Article 138 - which gives the availability of the Constitution into the hands of the political majority of the moment. The severity of the wound inflicted on the rigidity of the Charter is amplified by the political claim to indissolubly tie the destiny of the Government to the destiny of constitutional reforms and thus condition its outcome. All this in the context of a worrying lack of attention manifested by the whole of the party forces present in Parliament and revealed by the silence with which the appeals were received to individual parliamentarians coming from broad areas of constitutionalism and Italian associationism. It must be reiterated strongly that the principle of rigidity of the Constitution, removed from all changes and guarded by the procedures aggravated by the approval of the laws of revision of Article 138, was not thought of by the constituents to establish the absolute intangibility of the Charter, but to ensure that any revision of the fundamental citizenship pact could take place in a context as similar as possible to the constituent one, including the wider spectrum of political forces - majority and especially minority - and freed from the dominant political orientation. In accordance, moreover, with what happens in countries that are commonly taken as a model of decision-making efficiency of democratic processes, in which the revision of the fundamental law is allowed, but in the context of procedures even more rigid and complex than those sanctioned by Article 138. In the United States the revision is possible in the reduced form of the amendment, the simple proposal of which must be made by two thirds of the members of the Congress and two thirds of the assemblies of the various States. Also in the document of the magistrates we read: In the face of an immemorial policy of the fact that the only successful constitutional reforms were those channeled on the tracks of Article 138, the need that is felt is to make even stronger the guarantee of rigidity of the Charter, in order to protect the Constitution from adventures promoted by political majorities of the moment. All the more so at a time when the composition of political representation is altered by an electoral mechanism that rescinds the link between popular and elected will and risks handing the government over to minority forces. It is necessary to remove the Charter from the blackmail of political majorities and strongly reaffirm that the Constitution is an inalienable heritage of the Italian people. The latter, with the vote against the draft revision of Part II of the Constitution that some 16 million Italians expressed in the referendum of 25 and 26 June 2006, has again elected it as a teacher and pole star of public life and social relations. The defence of the Constitution is not conservation. Others, however, are the desirable reforms that the country needs. Reforms aimed at updating and developing the draft of the fundamental law, but in line with the values of a Constitution, which, especially in the contingent period of economic and social crisis, highlights only one urgent necessity: to be implemented. I turn to the comments (public ones, not those arrived on the private mail) that I read, quoting only the name, left on my Facebook bulletin board. Salvatore Loris: "They trampled on the constitution by signing treaties above it. Not only do they have to finish this farce but they have to retract everything or soon we will be a great "V" Manuel: "Despite the event in Rome, the "wise" amend the Constitution. Behind each article are hundreds of young people who died in the Resistance. Young partisans who wanted to leave us a better future, which we do not want to have today. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Antonio: You are erasing the main key to our modern history and our future. Even your children will remember this!!!! Pasquale: "Who changes the rules to change the rules makes the game of cheating." [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Peter: "This Constitution was written with blood... and with BLOOD the DIFDEREMMO". Lidia: "Look at your son's eyes and tell him that you are amending the Constitution, the same one for which they have fought blood and have him study in history books, to be proud of our Italy. Tell him why he's in such a hurry, because just article 138 and promise him you're doing it to improve his life! Manuel: "The Constitution is like our mother, we can't stab her in the back!" Domenico: "Gianluca reminds this barbaric majority that the changes must be made in compliance with the rules and not derogating them, explains to them that Article 138 regulates an institute of modification fast enough if compared with the institutes of modification of constitutional laws of other countries that we often take for example as the United States where it is impossible to modify but only amend the constitutional charter or in Belgium where there is need after the approval of a constitutional change of the resignation of parliament and of new elections and a new vote. We are with you and Win Us. Federica: "One of the few things I remember when I was studying law in high school was the lesson in which my teacher stressed the importance of that article... I don't remember anything else just that... was in front of me and said "this article was the guarantee that they left us to make our constitution unassailable and iron against destructive interests and dictatorships for Italy," I now see that it is already happening, that already democracy is no longer there and 138 is still there... I don't know if they're gonna change it. We're tired, we're tried, and in the middle of a crisis, it's not time to make giant strides... certain laws should be changed when you are well, you are florid and rested and even lucid. Now let's get angry, we don't see a future... it's like asking someone who's lost work, family, who's been mugged, raped, robbed, beaten, humiliated to make himself look good and smile... How can one smile at this change when we already know who will be the new president of the council of the new semi-presidency republic? They're always the ones who change the rules... we don't need a caregiver... but honest, serious, sensible, competent politicians... Only those, perhaps honorable, of the possibility of modifying the constitution. These are constantly in crisis, they hate each other and pretend, the suspects don't count, the condemned... Let's leave it alone and they dare each other for the wrongdoing. They're not worthy of mentioning her, let alone changing her. For a couple of years the "unknown" has been in fashion. Well, I don't want them to change my constitution... [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] They don't even deserve to inform us... which means only one thing... that we are gonna be rustling!... Vincenzo: "Article 138 is like a password for our Constitution. It is a guarantee for our Charter, and like all passwords if used well allows us to go further and work, but if it is forgotten(a) or used(a) badly our Constitution freezes! As you can see, I also read messages that go in another direction and I have no problems. Domenico: "The Constitution has been bypassed by hiring for years of people led by corrupt, there will be justice in this life for the IDONEI 184 of the 2001 PUBLIC COMPETITION??????? It is possible that everyone is silent for absorption of less than 300 people who have spent a lifetime making it clear that we have ALWAYS HAD REASON!!!!! Marco: "The Constitution must not be changed, but must be respected, followed and honored, as it is, clear and clear. You are the first to disrespect it and make the Italians believe that it is time to change it. You are not men, you are not Italians, you are puppets without soul or modesty, vile in acting and thinking. The people need more, they need honesty and men who respect the rules and who set an example for them. All Italians must know that those who want to amend the Constitution are the first to break it! Maria Rosa: "They have trampled on, for the umpteenth time, the will of the citizens not accepting all the signatures collected, against this rape of our Charter. The Constitution belongs to all the citizens, not only them, we want it as it was written by the constituent Fathers. They can't get people under investigation to put their hands on the amendment of the Constitution, which has dirty hands. Roberto tells you: You must not, you cannot, you are not worthy of it. Natalino: "There will be justice: there has always been, why shouldn't there be this time? The problem is: do you want human or divine? (Brusio). They're citizens. I'm just bringing you back what they want. [[Comments of the PD Group.]] It's from PD's banks. Times, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There's no ban. Go ahead, Senator Castaldi. Thank you, President. Giacomo: "Behind every article in the Constitutional Charter are hundreds of young people who died in the Resistance. So the Republic is our conquest and we must defend it, no matter what it costs." (Sandro Pertini, End of the Year Message to the Italians, 1979). "The Constitution is the foundation of the Republic. If it falls from the heart of the people, if it is not respected by the political authorities, if it is not defended by the government and Parliament, if it is tampered with by the parties, the hard ground on which our institutions are manufactured and anchored our freedoms will be lost." (Luigi Sturzo, Speech, 1957). (Brusio). "In this Constitution [...] There's all our history, all our past, all our sorrows, our misfortunes, our glories: they all came into the articles here. Behind every article in the Constitution, or young people, you must see young people like you who gave life so that freedom and justice could be written on this Charter. Wherever an Italian died to redeem freedom and dignity, go there, or young people, with thought, because there our Constitution was born." (Piero Calamandrei, Speech on the Constitution, 1955) Natalino: "There is a little cited article of the Constitution, perhaps little understood. Article 137: "No appeal may be brought against the decisions of the Constitutional Court." Together with Article 134: "The Constitutional Court judges on disputes." In practice, no one can challenge a judgment of the Constitutional Court. No one. Not even Dragons, Troika or anything. Here emerges a somewhat different sovereignty from that of Article 1. A sovereignty in the schmittian sense ("Sovereign is who decides the exception state"): above the Constitutional Court there is no higher authority. This is what Rodotà forgets: the (lucky) failure of the European Constitution implies that the Constitutional Court remains national. And nothing exists above the Court. It is not a theoretical reasoning: the German Constitutional Court has repeatedly rejected laws produced by Parliament "because it wants Europe" and decided that they were not constitutional. The same has recently been done by Portugal. The same could be done in Italy. That is why a judge who defends the interests of banks has recently been appointed to the Court. Francis writes: "What does ddl 813 foresee? Not a change as often read, but a "one-off disapplication " of Article 138, with the aim of putting the turbo in the Great Constitutional Reform of Letta. An Italian strategy. In 1992 the ISI was a one-off tax; then it transfigured into the ICI, then into the IMU and finally into the service tax, a monstrous all-inclusive hydra. You start with the one-off eye and you end up blind and deaf in aeternum. The exceptions give rise to the rules: if ddl 813 became law, Article 138 would not change in a stable way, but the successive changes that Letta wants to insert in haste and fury in the second part of the Constitution would be permanent. The flagrant reduction in the number of parliamentarians, always avoided in the facts by the parties, is only a Trojan horse: the objectives are others. Letta dreams of a radical change in the system of government, with the import of a (semi?) Presidentialism similar to France or US-like. Why? To give the blow of grace to Parliament, already half drowned by the flood of trusted votes of the governments Berlusconi, Monti and Letta, permanently obscuring it under the shadow of the "man only under command." Too bad a political system isn't a repeatable franchise everywhere. In the past, with bipolarism, we have tried to transplant a foreign model in Italy. Today we wander disoriented among the rubble of the wicked experiment. Bipolarism has not guaranteed fabulous stability, cooking soupes always ready to detonate, generating the "porcellum" and degradating Italy to megastadium haunted by political ultras puffed with hatred. The final was tragicomic, with the photograph of the two contenders forced to embrace against nature, in order to survive the unknown advent of the third wheel, the 5 Star Movement. I don't read doctor Jekyll's post because I don't know his name. Francis still writes: There are also strong perplexities in imagining Letta and the "porcellum" boys (from here on PB) as the predestined to realize an epic constitutional turning point that Italian politics has been pursuing for decades. The Letta Government is a government that derogates from the principles of democracy and is not even one-off, because it is the second time in a row after Monti (from the exception, the rule). The majority that supports Letta is artificial like the Arab nation-states, does not have a correspondence in the real country and is obtained by sticking the political representations of two antithetical electorates. The PBs have been catapulted into Parliament with an electoral law already declared partially unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. Judgment that, in all probability, will be confirmed by the Consulta. The PB have fed themselves in the "porcellum," attacking it in words but protecting it in fact, and now even point their finger at the Severino law, hoping to make it declare unconstitutional and save Berlusconi. Let's be clear: legal approaches to an examination exist. But the 37 politicians who have already fallen due to the effects of the Severino law? For them, the index accusers of PBs have remained in their pockets: the members of the Great Constitutional Reform perhaps have not read (or understood) the Constitution even up to Article 3 (). I apologize to all the other guys I can't read the comments about because I've run out of time at my disposal. I conclude by saying that a constitutional change cannot be made by appointed and appointed persons. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u62	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased with the Minister's presence, but I hope that he will be able to listen carefully not only to my speech but also to future ones, perhaps with a little less attention on the telephone. I would like to tell you, in these few minutes, what the Constitution of the Republic represents for a citizen like me. And I tell you through the words of men and women that the Constitution has written it. I do not forget Piero Calamandei's speech to the students of Milan in 1955. I do not forget this because, in that speech, Calamandrei, referring to the fundamental Charter, never speaks of development, of banks, of economy, of technology; he simply speaks, and with magnificent elocution, of man, of his dignity, of the instinct of solidarity that he must have. It speaks of equality, Calamandrei, of individual and collective rights, of freedom to be, of building one's present and future. Many years have passed since the difficult time when the Constituents, after a long war of hatred, death and destruction, full of enthusiasm and hope, realized the normative principles capable of determining a profound transformation in social reality, starting from a primary value that fascism had unknown: man and his dignity. Out of the experience of the authoritarian regime, the strong intention of the Constituents of all political parties was to guarantee individual rights and denied freedoms. How long has it been since Calamandrei, La Pira, Mortati, and with them all the Catholic, socialist and communist parliamentarians, had no doubts and were really, and not instrumentally, cohesive in recognizing the inviolable rights of man, as stated in Article 2, both as a single person, and in the social formations where his personality takes place? I, on the other hand, am not in Parliament where illustrious and valiant men sat, who designed a world at the centre of human dignity. I am speaking in Parliament farther, by form and substance, from what was Parliament that wrote our Constitution. The Parliament which, most of all in the history of our Republic, disregards the fundamental principles of the wonderful project that is the Constitution. The Parliament in which we discuss daily, and for purposes of massive distraction, banks, development, industry, markets, MIB index; how to save Guy or Caio from jail. A Parliament that is unable to form an anti-Mafia Commission [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and who executes, mechanically, orders from a government plundered and lobbied. It is so, colleagues, and it is amazing to think that you, until now merely execute orders deriving from the Executive, are you who have no title, no merit, no experience of dictatorship, death and pain behind you, to think that you can modify what Calamandrei called a will written with the blood of one hundred thousand dead. A testament of one hundred thousand dead is an immutable document, especially if implemented in its fundamental principles, of freedom, solidarity and equality. This, on the other hand, is Parliament in which a power such as the legislative one, which is itself the basis and the garrison of the Constitution, does not legislate, but allows, in total contempt of its own fundamental law, a shameless and continuous decree of urgency. I ask all of us a great effort, but I ask you to really do so, that is to imagine coming back for a few moments or remembering through the stories of your loved ones, if you have not experienced it directly, the experience of the fascist regime and of war. Each of you will have - I am sure - a memory of an episode of death, of hunger, of deprivation, of humiliation, limitations of every freedom of aggregation, of criticism, of different thought, of annulment of the dignity of men. In remembering it now, you have to focus on the number 138. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the number that protects our Italian Constitution from the possibility of renovating dictatorships. By virtue of Article 138, our Constitution is in fact a "rigid" Constitution, which can be modified only by a constitutional law, and this is not by a will or a whim, but - be careful - for the ease that Fascism had to limit and then suppress the rights and freedoms that the Albertino Statute also recognized. To state, as some politicians who are particularly intolerant of democratic rules feel, that the process of amending the Constitution provided for in Article 138 is exceptionally difficult and burdensome, and should therefore be wisely lightened, is false. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Far more difficult are other Constitutions: in the United States, for example, in addition to the vote of the two branches of Congress, the positive vote of two thirds of the Member States is also required. In Switzerland the double vote of the same Assembly is not enough: after the approval of the reform law, the House that approved it must be dissolved and new elections must be held; to approve for the second time the constitutional reform will then be the House exited from the elections in its renewed composition. Our article 138 is far less demanding, yet it is to be weakened with disarming superficiality. I would also point out the absurd history of a rigid Constitution which, if attacked by illegitimate laws, should be defended by the Constitutional Court whose judges are appointed by the President of the Republic. I smile bitterly if I think that the Quirinale has also appointed those who, however, should amend the Constitution. This was how Piero Calamandrei expressed himself in January 1955: I remember the first injections, after the fall of fascism, on June 6, 1946; this people who for twenty-five years had not enjoyed civil and political freedoms, the first time he went to vote, after a period of horrors, of chaos: civil war, struggles, wars, fires, went to vote. I remember, I was in Florence, the same happened here. These rows of disciplined people in front of the sections. Disciplined and pleased. Because they had the feeling that they had regained their dignity, this giving the vote, this bringing their own opinion to help create, this opinion of the community, this being the masters of us, of our own country, of our homeland, of our land; to dispose us of our destiny, of the destiny of our country. I cannot help but mention these words which are the expression of a highly altruistic, supportive, dignified and democratic thought. We parliamentary citizens of the 5 Star Movement will continue to fight with the weapons that the Constitution itself has given us to defend each of the citizens of the world present in our country. We know that our Constitution remains a marvellous project and that there are countless principles that are still unimplemented that concern respect for the person, his sphere of freedom, his inviolable conscience and his self-determination. In fact, they are not implemented because they speak of weak, humble, workers, students, elderly, children and the sick, but they do not find adequate regulatory answers. You talk about anything else every day, and every day you work not to protect Italian citizens, but to achieve everything that in the Constitution is not, trying to bend it to logics of power that have nothing to do with the spirit with which it was written. But, be careful, I tell you as a citizen who has not stopped being on the street every day listening to the weakest: "A servile democracy where there are those who work without rights is not a democracy." So Gustavo Zagrebelsky pronounced himself. You always speak of development and stability as a prospect to get out of the crisis; but if work is mortified and the humiliated worker no development is possible. The Constitution is an unimplemented project! It must not be changed, it must be achieved in the principles inspired by solidarity. The Constitutional Court is clear: "The principle of solidarity is placed among the founding values of the legal order, so much so that it is solemnly recognized and guaranteed, together with the inviolable rights of man, by Article 2 of the Constitutional Charter as the basis of social coexistence normatively foreshadowed by the constituent." It is from here that we must start again in order to realize a human society: solidarity is within our history and it is together with the work and the protection of the dignity of man. Tahar Ben Jelloun, Moroccan writer said: It is by treating others with dignity that one earns respect for oneself. We believe that this Parliament has not so far had any respect for the dignity of man defended by the Constitution and will never have any title to change it. We citizens of the 5 Star Movement will fight through the inviolable rights that it has granted us to prevent it, not until the end of our mandate but up to the line of our days, for Italy, for the 58 million Italians other than you! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u64	Senator Petrocelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u65	This morning, coming here, at Madama Palace, with the urban bus number 87, I listened to a discussion among some Roman citizens and I had the confirmation - if ever needed - that something has changed now. In fact, not only did the group swear against the mayor of Rome for the fake pedestrianization of the Imperial Forums and against the Letta Government for the increase of VAT, but - look at this - your plans for constitutional reforms, dear Executive of the broad understandings and dear single party were also badly talked about. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now I wonder who in this moment in the country can ever speak ill of constitutional reforms, and I now ask myself this before you with a very authoritative quote, at least as authoritative as the maneuver that you are making: And now I ask myself: in this world of intolerances and prejudices, who are we, who are we to talk about it badly? The quote is by Nathan Young, in MISFITS, an English TV series, season 1, episode 1. It's as authoritative a quote as what you're doing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Here, I tell you who we are (Nathan Young wondered who we are): we are citizens with helmets. We wore it to come and fight you here, too, on your soil; and the helmet we keep to protect ourselves from the limestones of the rubble in which you continue to want to reduce the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Something else has changed in recent years, including institutional considerations about the Constitutional Charter, and perhaps it has changed for the worse. Here I use another quotation in support of my thesis, parts of which I will repeat twice precisely to underline the change that has taken place in the meantime: "that the very nature of what happened on January 1, 1948 is present. Not the fulfillment of a historic event itself concluded, but the birth of something... which has continued to live, is alive and has a future, a table of principles of values, rights and duties, rules and balances, which forms the basis of our being together, animating a democratic competition without endangering the common good. I repeat the passage: "animating a democratic competition without endangering the common good." The quote continues: "And precisely because this is a matter, today the need arises for a renewed, conscious anchoring to the Constitution" - I repeat: "a renewed, conscious anchoring to the Constitution" - "this need which appears all the stronger the more a danger of disorientation of the national community is felt, for the weakening of its cohesion and its ideal and civil fabric. From this point of view, the Charter of '48 is a precious reserve on which to use, provided that we first undertake to pierce the veil of ignorance that surrounds it: making it known and study the text, making it grasp its virtuality and critical stimuli. The quote continues: The most open task of reflection, as is appropriate for a historical product operating, of which no one can make an "icon." The Charter of '48, however, must first of all record - and this is not a ritual homage - the estate and vitality in the face of the hurricane and the completion of the process of great transformation and modernization that Italy has experienced in the following decades. He continued: "The Charter was able to preside over such a process, also to accompany its many tensions, thanks, among other things, to the wisdom and foresight of formulations that were thought so that they could be not closed but suitable for the transposition of requests and requests little or no predictable at the time of the definition of that text. It was therefore possible, and an evolution took place: the constitutional dictation passed through not a manipulation, but an intelligent interpretation, not dogmatic. I repeat: "the constitutional dictation has passed through not manipulation, but an intelligent interpretation, not dogmatic, attentive to the new conditions and sensitivities of society and to new international contexts." It is this non-static conception of the Constitution that must be affirmed, if one wants to enhance its message and fecundity: paying attention, of course, not to indulge in an unproductive mythization but also not to give in to the rhetoric of the "overcoming", almost for age limits, of the Charter of '48. In respect of which we are not interested in lip services, the praises to the blossoms of lips, but also do not carry to anywhere the cursing attitudes. I would like to repeat this paragraph in its entirety: 'but also not to give in to the rhetoric of 'overcoming', almost for age limits, of the Charter of '48. In respect of which we are not interested in lip services, the praises to the blossoms of lips, but also do not carry to anywhere the cursing attitudes. The quote goes on. What we are interested in is how to make the Republican Constitution live in this historical phase, in relation to questions of society and expectations of citizens who have not so far found an outlet. They require further efforts in the analysis and interpretation of the constitutional dictation, reform choices or subsequent implementation of unsatisfactory or dead letter rules. Choices of reform: I am convinced that they are to be pursued and can be shared, if targeted, specifically aimed at ensuring the solution of some problems for some time on the table, such as the abandonment of bicameralism still in force and the establishment of a Chamber of Regions or self-government. He continues the quote by saying: Instead, I am also convinced that retracing the already unworkable road of an overall rewriting, even of the only second part of the Charter of '48, would be a desireful and harmful attempt. I repeat: Instead, I am also convinced that retracing the already unworkable road of an overall rewriting, even of the only second part of the Charter of '48, would be a desireful and harmful attempt. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A brief interruption of the quotation to read Article 2 of the Constitutional Bill which reads: The Committee shall examine the draft Constitutional Review Laws of the Articles referred to in Titles I, II, III and V of Part II of the Constitution. Exactly. Take the quote again. The simple fact that the Constitution is not untouchable is that between 1963 and 2005 38 articles or paragraphs have been amended, replaced and added, even of considerable importance. The quote ends with this sentence: I am merely warning against the risk of new, defiant and inconclusive plans for global reform of the Charter. I repeat: "I am only warning against the risk of new, defiant and inconclusive plans for global reform of the Charter." The author of these phrases is Giorgio Napolitano [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : sentences spoken in the speech at the conference "The Constitution tomorrow - on the 60th anniversary of the Fundamental Charter of the Republic" held in Venice on 18 September 2008. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] An intelligent, forward-looking, serious and effective person, which one of you would ask himself: what has changed since 2008 to today? I believe that the fact has changed that the President of the Republic, as the guarantor of the Constitution, has been the guarantor of broad understanding and of the single party. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Drop the curtain. The show's over. Good night, everyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u66	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen a number of articles in our Constitution which will show how many times you have been bypassed or ignored and, therefore, why you should not even think that you can change it. Let's start with Article 1, the best known one: Italy is a democratic Republic, founded on labour. Sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. Article 4. The Republic grants all citizens the right to work and promotes the conditions which make this right effective. Every citizen has the duty to carry out, according to his own possibilities and choice, an activity or function that will contribute to the material or spiritual progress of society. Article 9. The Republic shall promote the development of culture and scientific and technical research. It protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. Article 11. Italy repudiates war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of other peoples and as a means of resolving international disputes; it allows, on a level playing field with other States, the limitations of sovereignty necessary for a system that ensures peace and justice between nations; it promotes and favours international organizations aimed at this purpose. Article 21 All have the right to freely manifest their thoughts by word, writing and any other means of dissemination. Printing may not be subject to permission or censorship. The seizure may be carried out only by a reasoned act of the judicial authority in the case of crimes, for which the law on the press expressly authorizes it, or in the case of violation of the rules prescribed by the law itself for the indication of those responsible. (...) Article 32. The Republic protects health as a fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, and guarantees free care to the most deprived. No one can be obliged to a certain health treatment except by law. Under no circumstances can the law violate the limits imposed by respect for the human person. Article 33. Art and science are free and free. The Republic shall lay down general rules on education and establish state schools for all orders and grades. Private and private bodies have the right to set up schools and educational institutions, without charge to the State. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The law, when establishing the rights and obligations of non-state schools applying for equality, must ensure that they have full freedom and that their pupils are treated equally with that of pupils in state schools. A State examination is required for admission to, or for the conclusion of, the various orders and grades of schools and for the admission to professional practice. The institutions of high culture, universities and academies have the right to give themselves autonomous systems within the limits established by the laws of the State. Article 34. The school is open to everyone. Lower education for at least eight years is compulsory and free of charge. Skillful and deserving, even if they lack the means, have the right to reach the highest degrees of study. The Republic shall give effect to this right by means of grants, grants to families and other provisions, which must be awarded by competition. Article 36. The worker is entitled to remuneration proportionate to the quantity and quality of his work and in any case sufficient to ensure that he or she and the family have a free and dignified existence. The maximum duration of the working day is laid down by law. The worker is entitled to weekly rest and paid annual leave and cannot renounce it. Article 37. The female worker has the same rights and, with equal work, the same wages as the worker. Working conditions must allow the fulfilment of its essential family function and provide the mother and the child with special adequate protection. The law lays down the minimum age limit for wage-earners. The Republic shall protect the work of children with special rules and shall guarantee them the right to equal pay for equal work. Article 38. Every citizen unable to work and without the means necessary to live has the right to maintenance and social assistance. Workers are entitled to provide and provide adequate means of living in the event of an accident, illness, invalidity and old age, and involuntary unemployment. The disabled and the disabled have the right to education and vocational training. The tasks provided for in this Article shall be provided by bodies and institutes prepared or supplemented by the State. Private assistance is free. Article 39. The trade union organization is free. No other obligation can be imposed on trade unions other than their registration at local or central offices, in accordance with the law. It is a condition for the registration of the statutes of the unions to establish an internal democratic system. Registered trade unions have legal personality. They may, jointly represented in proportion to their members, conclude collective labour agreements with compulsory effect for all those belonging to the categories to which the contract relates. Article 40. The right to strike is exercised within the framework of the laws governing it. Article 41. The private economic initiative is free. It cannot be carried out in conflict with social usefulness or in such a way as to harm security, freedom and human dignity. The law determines the appropriate programmes and controls so that public and private economic activity can be addressed and coordinated for social purposes. Article 42. The property is public or private. Economic goods belong to the State, to institutions or to private individuals. Private property is recognised and guaranteed by the law, which determines its means of purchase, enjoyment and limits in order to ensure its social function and make it accessible to all. Private property may be, in the cases provided for by law, and subject to compensation, expropriated for reasons of general interest. The law establishes the norms and limits of the legitimate and willary succession and the rights of the State over the inheritances. Article 43. For general purposes, the law may originally reserve or transfer, by expropriation and without compensation, to the State, public bodies or to communities of workers or users certain undertakings or categories of undertakings, which refer to essential public services or to energy sources or to situations of monopoly and which are of a pre-eminent general interest. Article 44. In order to achieve the rational exploitation of the soil and to establish equal social relations, the law imposes obligations and constraints on private land ownership, sets limits to its extension according to the regions and agricultural areas, promotes and imposes the reclamation of the land, the transformation of the land and the rebuilding of the productive units; it helps the small and medium-sized property. The law provides for measures in favour of mountain areas. Article 45. The Republic recognizes the social function of cooperation of a mutual nature and without the purpose of private speculation. The law promotes and promotes the increase with the most suitable means and ensures, with the appropriate controls, its character and purpose. The law provides for the protection and development of crafts. Article 46. For the sake of the economic and social elevation of work and in line with the requirements of production, the Republic recognises the right of workers to cooperate, in the manner and within the limits laid down by law, in the management of companies. Article 47. The Republic encourages and protects savings in all its forms; it regulates, coordinates and controls the exercise of credit. It favours the access of popular savings to the property of the house, to the direct agricultural property and to the direct and indirect investment stock in the great productive complexes of the Country. Article 54. All citizens have a duty to be faithful to the Republic and to observe its Constitution and laws. Citizens entrusted with public functions have a duty to carry out them with discipline and honor, taking an oath in the cases laid down by law. Article 67. Each Member of Parliament represents the nation and performs his duties without a mandate. Article 70. The legislative function is exercised collectively by the two Chambers. I read this article, because maybe it's not very clear to the government: The legislative function is carried out collectively by the two Chambers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Article 76. The exercise of the legislative function cannot be delegated to the Government except with determination of guiding principles and criteria and only for limited time and for defined objects. Article 77. The Government cannot, without delegation of the Chambers, issue decrees that have the value of ordinary law. When, in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency, the Government adopts, under its responsibility, provisional measures by force of law, it must present them on the same day for conversion to the Chambers which, even if dissolved, are specially convened and meet within five days. The decrees lose effect from the beginning, if they are not converted into law within sixty days of their publication. However, the Chambers can regulate with law the legal relations arising on the basis of non-converted decrees. Article 85. The President of the Republic is elected for seven years. Thirty days before the end of the term, the President of the Chamber of Deputies shall convene in common session the Parliament and regional delegates, to elect the new President of the Republic. If the Rooms are dissolved, or less than three months after their termination, the election shall take place within fifteen days of the meeting of the New Rooms. In the meantime, the powers of the President-in-Office are extended. Article 87. The President of the Republic is the Head of State and represents national unity. You can send messages to the Rooms. Indicate the elections of the new Chambers and set the first meeting. It authorizes the presentation to the Houses of the Government's own-initiative drafts of law. Promulgate laws and enact decrees of law value and regulations. Index the popular referendum in the cases provided for in the Constitution. Appointment, in the cases indicated by law, of officials of the State. Accredits and receives diplomatic representatives, ratifys international treaties, after, when necessary, the authorization of the Chambers. He's in command of the Armed Forces. presides over the Supreme Council of Defense constituted according to the law, declares the state of war deliberated by the Chambers; The Supreme Council of the judiciary presides. It can grant grace and commute the penalties. It bestows the honours of the Republic. Article 98. The public employees are at the nation's exclusive service. If they are Members of Parliament, they cannot achieve promotions except for seniority. It is possible by law to establish limitations on the right to join political parties for magistrates, career soldiers in active service, officials and police officers, diplomatic and consular representatives abroad. Title IV. The Magistrate. Section I. Judicial order. Article 101. Justice is administered in the name of the people. Judges shall be subject only to the law of the Court of Justice. And I read this again: The courts are subject only to the law of the Court of Justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Article 102. The judicial function shall be exercised by ordinary judges established and governed by the rules on the judicial order. No special Judges or special Judges may be established. They can only be established in ordinary judicial bodies specialised in certain matters, including with the participation of suitable citizens outside the judiciary. The law regulates the cases and forms of direct participation of the people in the administration of justice. Article 103. The Council of State and the other administrative justice bodies have jurisdiction to protect legitimate interests vis-à-vis the public administration and, in particular matters indicated by law, also subjective rights. The Court of Auditors shall have jurisdiction in matters of public accounting and other matters specified by law. Military courts in wartime have jurisdiction established by law. In peacetime they have jurisdiction only for military crimes committed by members of the Armed Forces. Article 104. The judiciary is an autonomous and independent order from any other power. And here too I have to reread: the judiciary is an autonomous and independent order from any other power. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Supreme Council of the judiciary is chaired by the President of the Republic. The first President and the Attorney General of the Court of Cassation are in law members of the Court of Cassation. The other members are elected two thirds by all ordinary judges from among the various categories, and one third by Parliament in common session between ordinary university professors in legal matters and lawyers after fifteen years of exercise. The Council shall elect a vice-president from among the members appointed by Parliament. The elected members of the Council shall remain in office for four years and shall not be re-elected immediately. They cannot, as long as they are in office, be registered in the professional register or be a member of Parliament or of a Regional Council. Article 105. It is the responsibility of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, in accordance with the rules of the judiciary, recruitment, assignments and transfers, promotions and disciplinary measures with regard to judges. Article 106. The appointment of magistrates shall take place by competition. The law on the judicial order may allow the appointment, even elective, of honorary magistrates for all duties assigned to individual judges. Upon designation of the Supreme Council of the judiciary may be called to the office of councilors of cassation, for outstanding merits, ordinary university professors in legal matters and lawyers who are fifteen years old and are registered in the special offices for higher courts. Article 107. The magistrates are immovable. They may not be waived or suspended from the service or intended for other offices or functions except as a result of a decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, adopted either on the grounds and with the guarantees of defence established by the judicial order or with their consent. The Minister of Justice shall have the power to promote disciplinary action. The magistrates distinguish between themselves only because of different functions. The public prosecutor shall enjoy the guarantees established in respect of him by the rules on the judicial order. Article 108. The rules on the judicial system and on each judiciary are laid down by law. The law ensures the independence of judges of special courts, prosecutors, and outsiders participating in the administration of justice. Article 109. The judicial authority shall have direct access to the judicial police. Article 110. Without prejudice to the powers of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the Minister of Justice shall be responsible for the organisation and operation of justice services. Section II. "Rules of jurisdiction" is replaced by "Rules of jurisdiction." Article 111. Jurisdiction is carried out through the right process governed by law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u68	We're 20 seconds away.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u69	BULGARRELLI (M5S). I'll finish reading the article, if you'll allow me. Each trial shall take place in the context of a dispute between the parties, on a level playing field, before a third and impartial court. The law ensures its reasonable duration. In criminal proceedings, the law ensures that the person accused of a criminal offence is, as soon as possible, confidentially informed of the nature and reasons of the charge against him; has the time and conditions necessary to prepare his defence; has the right, before the judge, to question or to have the persons making statements against him questioned...................................................................................................................... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator Bulgarelli. BULGARRELLI (M5S). Is it too long for the article? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u70	His colleagues are pressing.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u71	Senator Marton is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u72	Mr President, we in the 5 Star Movement have always proudly called ourselves the spokesperson for the citizens. Today I have the burden and the honor to bring in defense of the Constitution the voice of a Nobel Prize-winning citizen for literature, Dario Fo. Listen to these simple, clear and revolutionary words he left us this morning. I read them for him in this Senate. [[Some Senators of the M5S Group stand up]] : "How strange, we have always said that our Constitution is the most beautiful in the world and that suddenly someone wants to change it, because - they say - there are inconsistencies and errors in that text and, by chance, these senators and MPs are the same who wanted and imposed - wanted and imposed - the laws ad personam. Strange coincidences of history. Dario Fo. Too many times this Senate has been deaf to the words of whom Darius so loved, his companion of a lifetime, a great woman, Franca Rame, who from here, from this Senate has fled. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's all listen to Dario Fo. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Senator Crimi brings a cell phone to the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u73	He continues his intervention: we are not at the radio base camp.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u74	MARTON (M5S). That's ten seconds, President... Senator Marton, continue your speech, please. MARTON (M5S). ...he's taking the word off a Nobel Prize winner. You should be ashamed, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then we will discuss whether such innovations can be introduced. MARTON (M5S). President, be ashamed!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u75	I'm not aware of it at this point. When you decide to do things like that, we'll do them. I don't know if this can be done yet. So you have the right to intervene, you still have your time: please continue your speech. MARTON (M5S). I end by saying: "Be ashamed." [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Shame on you. I'll call you back to order. We're not here to play. You should make your speech; if you do it on behalf of a third party, it may also be acceptable, but this little game is not serious and unrespectful of this House. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I don't allow you to say: You are ashamed of the Presidency, so I call you to order. Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u76	Mr President, I personally would like to thank the Minister for his presence in this Chamber - which I would have liked to spare him - despite his health, for attending an unreal theater. The ratio underlying the bill, reached today in the second resolution, is undoubtedly acceptable and desirable in the name of the need, that we would have expected widely shared by this Senate (the public opinion and the country ask us to do so), to proceed in fast times to those institutional reforms for too long expected and of which politics so far seemed to take responsibility only from the rhetorical point of view, without ever aiming at shared and concrete projects. Despite the clear political impasse of these months, President Napolitano's significant impetus has led to an acceleration on this front. And one of the most significant aspects of this desire for speed, after years of immobility, is the report presented yesterday by you, Minister Quagliariello, in which the guidelines to be followed by the reforms of the coming months have been defined. That's the point. We are all well aware of the importance of these reforms and, above all, we are aware that the constitutional framework must be visibly modified. The heated confrontation that is taking place in this House, even with forces that none of us imagined would immobilise the country and not allow change, demonstrates its delicate character. AIROLA (M5S). You're the one who immobilizes him! DI BIAGIO (SPI). It is not my intention to enter into the substance of each of the issues raised in a timely manner by Minister Quagliariello, as it is the result of a first work of perspective and deepening on many institutional aspects. But I cannot overlook what has been pointed out about the future of the foreign Circumscription nor, therefore, avoid the discussion and the internal debate, because one cannot fail to note that on this point, little in harmony with the other chapters of intervention, there is a clear and clear position of the wise men about the opportunity to delete it because of its incorrect functioning. It is as if a doctor decided to amputate the leg to a cloudist, rather than studying a cure to allow him to use his leg well or in any case to relieve his suffering. The constitutional change underlying the Tremaglia law was not the expression of a political decision or a condolence given to a party, but it was the port of call of a confrontation between institutions, citizens and representatives that has taken place over the years. I believe that this point cannot be overlooked in the name of an acceleration which, although understandable, cannot be passively shared. The fact that the Commission of Wise Men has officially denounced a malfunction, moreover transversally recognized, first of all by us representatives of that Circumscription, should be the starting point of a path of change that I invoked already during the previous legislature with various legislative proposals, but it cannot and must not legitimize a priori closure towards the entire area of intervention, venting then hypotheses of reconfiguration of the representations that may appear imaginative, especially if they are not based on a real study of what exactly represents and what exactly the area of intervention is composed of. Also for this reason in the first resolution we obtained the commitment of the Government to allow, within the limits of its competences and responsibilities, an active and constant confrontation of the Committee in fieri with the representatives of the foreign Circumscription, possibly through the involvement of the Committee for the issues of the Italians in the world, established at the Senate of the Republic, in particular with regard to the legislative procedure relating to the reform of the electoral law. A position that has found many support, but which, apparently, has not found any kind of application or slight consideration, as unfortunately the report has clearly shown. In the light of what you said yesterday, Minister, it is clear that the wise men have been given too much power - in my opinion - despite, as I have already said, the sharing of the mission upstream. But we must not forget that these are always political emanations and as such cannot escape from the constitutional need for dialectic on which democratic practice is based. Therefore, I believe that it must be a priority as much as it is imperative to legitimise a broad discussion on the so-called suggestions of the essays and not acquire them as positions around which to articulate the draft laws. I would urge Members to think on this point on a point of order, so that the vote on this measure can also be clearly organized. I would therefore like to reiterate the sharing of the Committee's functionality, but I would also like to reiterate the firm desire to call for discussion on such sensitive and complex issues. It is a priority that on this front there is neither a bias, nor an ideological closure on the part of those who stop at their own convictions, but the clear will to listen and understand the reasons of others as well. We'll be there in this confrontation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Catalfo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u77	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure - I would like to stress - to speak to an empty Chamber, empty as are the classrooms of the bicameral committees, many times convened and also deserted by my fellow senators and MPs of the PD and the PdL who say that they have so much to care about the problems of Italian citizens and that they do not come to the convocations because they do not reach the agreement - I repeat: they do not reach the agreement - on who should hold the much desired office. This is the interest that parliamentarians have for Italian citizens, for the protection of the rights enshrined in our beloved Constitution. With regard to the bill we are debating today, I say that on a few historic occasions we can change those fundamental documents that regulate life in our society and regulate what our rights are. This is not the time. The changes presented by the so-called Committee of Wise Men call for a radical change in our form of government, a change that, being constitutional, will affect future generations; therefore those who live this historical moment should realize what are the characteristics that make decisive historical moments suitable to make great works of change for the whole nation. The change that the majority are preparing to make is certainly not the result of a popular decision but of a will for unilateral change of political forces. It is true that a change is needed, but that is not the change that citizens are asking for. Constitutional rules, senators, are the guiding principles of every legal practitioner, whether he be a magistrate, a lawyer or a job consultant. They are words, even taken individually, that guide us towards the interpretation of our rules, they are criteria and directives in the application of everyday legislation. Efforts to radically change a part of the card require a very broad consensus that the current majority does not possess, either as regards numbers or as regards stability. The broad understandings were immediately put to the test and it is clear to all that there are no lasting agreements to work according to the growth of this country, but only temporary partnerships destined to dissolve at the first warning of elections. In view of this confusing, uncertain and devoid of guarantees and stability, how is it possible to put hand to the fundamental mechanisms of our society, without the security that comes from a broad and shared popular consensus? Our present Charter is largely unenforced in all those principles that were so clear when our Republic was born. On the application of these fundamental parts the current political forces stage a theater - yours, not ours - [[Applause from the M5S Group]] with the connivance of journalists, for twenty years now, making us believe that the goal is now near, ever closer but derogating and extending, I repeat, derogating and extending situations in which the abuse of law reigns, abuse that is then legitimized as time passes. It is an extremely delicate moment in the history of this nation, a moment in which every change of the Constitutional Charter should be considered for a long time, not only in the legislative classrooms, but also in universities, schools, homes, in the country all. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These premises do not push for a rapid and sudden change, they do not give certainties about the magnitude of these changes. To derogate even once from the timetable laid down in Article 138 means to ignore all the struggles against the fog of the powerful to unilaterally regulate the conditions of their subjects, who at this point are only subjects. The long times dictated by Article 138 are the fruit of wars, deaths and sacrifices, sacrifices aimed at building a text that was solid and resisted the pitfalls of authoritarian power. These struggles were carried out so that the rights established after the French Revolution were absolute rights! And not mere faculties recognized at will by the sovereigns to whom all was permitted. From a purely legal point of view, it is clear that the rigidity of our fundamental Charter is defended precisely by the rule to which the majority are preparing to derogate. The desire to put hand in the first place to this rule hides a purely political and shamelessly biased design. This is not just any part, it is the old policy that wants to get rid of the obstacles to the expression of pure power, claiming emergencies to legislate on any subject in any way. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] Here too, we want to legislate quickly and without effective control by the people to whom the amended text would apply (because it is the citizens we have to account for). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The draft law under consideration does not only change the timing of the transition between one House and the other, but also changes the process of constitutional revision itself. It is the legitimacy of the elected, who are asked to vote silently on this amendment, which is a matter of concern. These statements also start from a fundamental consideration: with the current electoral law, those residing in the legislative classrooms are not elected, but appointed by the parties to which they belong. With an electoral legitimacy of this kind, can we create a constituent Assembly as it was in 1948? The distance is abysmal and not only in temporal terms. The result can only be a delegitimized product in its final substance because it is not an expression of the will of the people. A Constitution generated in this incomplete and forced way, imposed and overturned in a fateful way does not reflect what is the soul of this nation. The 1948 Charter was the expression of the liberal currents that forged the Italian Republic. It is a text whose provisions have not been settled, pending a law applying them. Therefore, instead of reforming them, apply them; instead of overturning them, implement them! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Since my colleague, Senator Bulgarelli, preceded me in reading the articles of the Constitution, I read only three. Italy is a democratic Republic, founded on labour. Sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. This is Article 1: unenforced! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man, both as a single person and in the social formations where his personality takes place, and requires the fulfilment of the indispensable duties of political, economic and social solidarity. It's Article 2: unenforced! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Article 3 reads as follows: "All citizens have equal dignity" - I repeat: equal dignity - "social" and are equal before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions. It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. I-nap-pli-cato! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] That is what we are yelling at, but the citizens, the citizens who are so mentioned in your speeches and who you say you are representing, are screaming at it. Those citizens who have been deprived, from your laws and from your inertia, from your falsehood, of all their rights, shout it. I continue to quote a few words from the people with whom I shared this path that brought me here with them to Parliament. The laws of the State are common patrimony because they are formed for all and not for the necessity of a few (Molinari). The Constitution can be reformed in order to adapt it to the times, but it does not tolerate radical revisions that unleash its system (Bencini). Article 138, as it stands, is based on a criterion of reasonableness and already responds to the need that the Constitution must be rigid, but not immutable and inflexible (Apulia). We will not allow you to distort the founding rules of a Constitution seized by majority shots (Cappelletti). The Constitution is not an arid list of unnamed articles. Behind every article in the Constitution there are young people, young people like you, like us, fallen, fallen fighting, young people who gave their lives so that words of justice and freedom were sculpted on this Charter (Buccarella). I conclude my speech by quoting a sentence by Piero Calamandrei: If you want to go on a pilgrimage to the place where our Constitution was born, go to the mountains where the partisans fell, to the prisons where they were imprisoned, to the fields where they were hanged. Wherever an Italian died to redeem his freedom and dignity (...) - freedom and dignity enshrined in our Constitution, not applied and respected - go there, oh young people, with thought, because there our Constitution was born. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u78	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u79	Mr President, illustrious colleagues, illustrious Minister, in the design of the Fathers constituting Article 138 represented the safeguard clause of the constitutional system of freedom, solidarity and democracy that was and must govern our country. This majority of government, born in the corridors of the Palaces of power and not already in the will and heart of Italian citizens, intends to create a model of reform that makes, among other things, easier the modification of the Constitution, through a revision of the procedures laid down in Article 138. This is unacceptable and is tantamount to betraying the original spirit of the Constitution and to promoting the risk of the implementation of laws inspired not already by the general interests, but by those contingents of the political majority at the moment; obviously in violation of the fundamental rights and duties of citizens. Moreover, it is emblematic that it is the political forces that have lost the hopes and dreams of the Italians over the last twenty years in promoting this change with legislative policy actions that have found a valid obstacle and obstacle only in the Constitution. These same political forces, the expression of this government which the citizens did not want, have led to the formation of a Commission of experts which today proposes to the Senate of the Republic a final report for constitutional reforms. The work that is presented is nothing more than a disappointing, yet another list of possible reforms, lacking an organic vision and system and inspired essentially to waste more time and more money on the country and its citizens. It is enough to scroll through the pages of the report to understand how everything is reduced to a mere list of school hypotheses, which actually hides the only real purpose of this initiative, namely to prevent Italy from being able to change really and, on the contrary, to perpetrate the consolidation, albeit in seemingly renewed forms, of the current models of party and of the power of a political class that deserves only to leave the field and go home. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Of course, one point deserves to be emphasized. In fact, the report finally reveals that the President of the Republic is not a neutral figure, and this is undoubtedly an affirmation of an almost confessory nature, probably unaware, but indicative of what has happened and is happening in this country and of the unacceptable plan of progressive emptying of the power of citizens to decide, with the elections, the future and the fate of their own destiny. Moreover, the intention to waste time and to ensure the survival of this political class clearly emerges from the stated connection, in the relationship, between the choice of the electoral system and that of the form of government. In fact, that is to delay to a time that will never come the time for the amendment of the current electoral law. Mr Minister, apart from your sympathy for your person, one cannot fail to see, with foreseeable disappointment, how this report, in fact, is a non-relationship, clearly lacking any organic reform proposal other than that, effective, to leave everything as it is. So much noise for nothing, would be to say, finding ourselves once again in the presence of a brilliant staging, which could also make people smile if it did not constitute yet another, sad confirmation of the inability of this Government - and of the political class that represents it - to give citizens a real hope of change of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u80	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u81	Mr President, good morning to my fellow Members who have remained in this House! It would have been nice if they had all been present, given the importance of the subject we are dealing with. It seems to me that there are some who are absent, Mr President, I would like to point out to you, just in passing. The theme we are talking about is delicate, which is why it is nice that we are all here to listen to the reflections that each of us makes. (The President spoke to Senator Petraglia.) It is also very interesting that you listen to us by talking to other people, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President, for listening to us. Good night! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Since some senator has reproached us for making a theater, you are doing the theater, not us. I'd like that to be clear. I speak on the subject to add some consideration of a proud engineer, hardened to the hard school of the construction site. I have seen houses built on solid foundations resisting the most sloppy renovations; a good project resists in time even the clumsy interventions of a bad restorer. This also applies to our Constitutional Charter. We have said this: it is not perfect and is not untouchable, but it is the fruit of the wisdom of men who knew how to put aside personal disagreements and reach a high-profile agreement. Of course, those men came out of a war and from twenty years of dictatorship and were afraid: fear that the war would return, fear that the dictatorship had a regurgitation, and for this they adopted a system that sometimes seems complicated, machinous. But the changes proposed to us by the famous essays are probably worse than the current constitutional architecture. They too are dictated by fear; it is fear that always grabs us. We're always scared, but with fear we're not going anywhere. Fear is not a healthy feeling, noble, of those who intend to preserve their fellow citizens from the dangers of a dictatorship or, God forbid, a war. The proposals put forward are dictated by the fear of paralysis and would like to achieve what no one has ever achieved throughout history: a system capable of remedying the fallibility of man, a system that ensures governability and efficiency even if the Government were to go innet and in bad faith. But this isn't over. The other fear is to lose power, of course. So, we try to build a system that is at the same time able not to relegate minorities to mere extras. On the other hand, the history of the latest legislation has shown that an organized minority can be decisive, even if it loses the elections. Therefore, it is not the system that is dated and inadequate, but it is men who interpret it and who would like to change it that I am not up to it. The constituent Fathers had been tempered by a world conflict and fought hard to obtain their rights. We have not experienced that violence and deprivation, thanks to them, but we demand that we have equal temper, equal moral strength: but that is not the case. How many things have we changed in Italy with the illusion of improving, solving long-standing problems? Lots, maybe too many. We have changed the law for the election of mayors and many cities have become personal potentates. I know one example, given the city from which I come. We have changed Title V of the Constitution by majority vote, and we have achieved in return only an increase in expenses (health care is the most striking example: we have not produced a large hole, but many holes, all large in the same way). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and an overlap of competences that has paralysed the work of the public administration in some areas. We have changed the electoral law several times, and in return we have obtained governments supported by senators for life, well-paid exchange rates and weak and blackmailed governments, including the Led Government, even the first on the list. Even when we wrote clear and unequivocal laws we were faced with blatant violations, without any possibility of restoring legality. It happened, just to give an example, that in two regions the same governor was elected for several mandates, even if the national law prohibited it (I mention the two clear examples of Formigoni in Lombardy and Vasco Errani in Emilia-Romagna). It happened for a mayor who, elected Undersecretary, refused to leave one of the two armchairs (our beloved mayor and undersecretary Vincenzo De Luca). The Region in question simply did not transpose the national law (the usual game of the three cards: we pretend not to approve a law, because so the law is not in force). The mayor in question is hiding under the skirts of a complacent city council. In Italy we have brought to unthinkable levels the said "made the law," found the deception" and really we delude ourselves to being able to find the square of the circle? The perfect system? Or shouldn't we try to make what's there work? Someone had tried, a senator, a former judge who no longer attends these classrooms; he had tried to change things by intervening not so much on the Constitution as on the Regulations of the House and the Senate. This colleague, with great patience, had understood that the procedures could be streamlined simply by intervening in the Regulations of the two Chambers. He did an accurate but useless job, because, after the legislature was over, his suggestions were set aside and, to be honest, this person was bitterly affected. But all of this is not enough for you. You have claimed to be fathers of the Homeland and you think that the Constitution should be amended to get out of the impasse. But in order to do this, if that is the solution, you should have legitimized yourselves in the eyes of the Italians, even those who voted for you. It would have been simple. You should have given up electoral refunds, restored a decent electoral law and given priority to the needs of Italians and not to those of an Italian alone. That is why we cannot trust them, that is why we do not trust the wise men and their solutions, which, to look at them, are a collection of suggestions that have been discussed in the past. Reduce the number of parliamentarians? That's good news. Moving from perfect bicameralism to imperfect monocameralism or bicameralism? How wonderful, no one had ever thought of that. Make the Senate the House of Regions? Distinguishing the laws dealt with by the two branches of Parliament by subject matter? Someone might have already said that. Did the wise ones really need to enlighten us with such trivial counsel? I would be curious to know how much this advice cost us and how much it will affect the debate; probably little, perhaps not at all. And, therefore, once again: was it necessary? I ask myself, and I ask you, rather than entrusting a small group of men with the task of working out banality, could we not, rather, propose to the citizens to express themselves? Maybe we'd find out they want to be able to vote for a real person and not a number on a list. Perhaps we would have discovered that they want to participate more in the political life of the country, perhaps by changing the referendum, depriving it of quorum. Perhaps we would have discovered that people want to be able to draw up directly a law, a popular law, and that they want to see it voted by Parliament. These institutions in our system already exist, along with that of the petition. Have you ever thought about starting here? But what do you want us to know, last arrived, in front of you men and women of long militancy in the institutions? Nothing. And, however, know that even a broken clock marks the right time twice a day. Well, we're that watch. Take our presence as a sign, a warning coming from above to give you a jolt, to tell you that so you cannot go forward, to show you how to preserve at least a part of your power. Go back to listening to people. Enough with self-referentiality. Try for a while to consider yourselves mere spokesmen; give way to people and their needs to simply flow through you; be healthy carriers of the needs of others. Try it, just try it, you might even like it. You could start right away. No party orders. It would be nice if you were all free and without diktat: no burdens on your shoulders, only the responsibility to bring in this House what your voters will have decided, without filters, and after a couple of legislatures you will be able to really go back to politics, on buses, in circles, at the bar, without the assailance of having to beg a place on the list. It would be nice for you to make politics out of here too, since you've been there for so many years that it's time for you to go home a little bit. Dear Senators, one of man's characteristics is to seek out the cause of his problems. Today that the system doesn't work as we would like, we struggle to change it. It's like we have a car with a wheel on the ground and to solve the problem we decide to change cars. The system doesn't work because men don't know how to make it work. We are prisoners of outdated logic. We begin to lighten that car, we remove unnecessary weights, what are the privileges and superstructures of the party: it will be easier to lift it and change the wheel. At that point we will not even need many mechanics or rubberists: a good jack and elbow oil will be enough, and we may even find that other simple citizens like us are willing to stop on the road, give us a hand and that we can do less work. I know that I have little chance of convincing you today, although I do not know who to convince because there is no one in this House. I'm saying this, but I don't know who we should ever convince since you're not here, and we'd like to see how the hell you think you're gonna earn your salary since you're never here when we talk. However, I do not give up and insist on those few left. I don't do it for personal "tigna" or for malice towards you. I do this because it is the people who voted for the Movement who asked me, in addition to the fact that I consider the request legitimate. How nice it was this night to sleep tastefully, without the hassles and worries of those who do not know what position to take. I already knew that. The citizens had expressed their views and today I return their will, simply. Selfishly, it can be said that I gain from it in terms of physical and mental health. And that is what I hope for you in the future too: gain physical and mental health and be free to do what is right, that is, not vote on this crap. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u82	It is said to sleep "soporiously" and not "soporiously." Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u83	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak briefly on a very important subject, and I am pleased that the Minister is also present and can take into account some comments concerning the Commission's report and the report that the Minister wanted to make in the Senate yesterday on a particular point, namely the possible reform of Title V. As we rightly say, it is a very complex reform from a technical and political point of view, because it depends on the possible improvements that we can expect, which are desirable both in terms of the efficiency of the whole system and of the fairness with which we respond to the needs of the citizens. There is one point that is very close to my heart and that, unfortunately, is not contained in the pages that concern the reform of Title V, which I hope is of common interest and on which I want to focus attention. When decentralized, the fundamental principle is to ensure that decentralisation can be accompanied by the guarantee of the rights of all citizens throughout the national territory under conditions of uniformity, regardless of the technical and political quality of the various public administrations. For this reason, the reform of Title V of 2001 had introduced very important concepts. The first is that of the essential levels of benefits, which remain the exclusive competence of the State, and the second, according to Article 120 of the Constitution, had provided that if the subnational levels of government did not guarantee the essential levels of benefits relating to the civil and social rights of citizens and which must be guaranteed in conditions of uniformity, the State could replace the decentralised subnational levels of government. In particular, Article 120 provided for this to be one of the cases in which the powers of the central level could be exercised. It is an issue of great importance, on which too little work has been done during this decade, and it is extremely important, because otherwise we end up decentralising only the objective of empowering decentralised bodies to respect public finance constraints, and not also to respect the rights of civil and social citizens when they are recognized and, therefore, to be guaranteed throughout the national territory. In many areas, particularly health, but also social and, in future, in other areas too, if we do not ensure monitoring and intervention if the administrations, in order to comply with budgetary constraints, do not respect the essential levels or simply worry about spending no more on the roof they are given, but not on guaranteeing services, we make two mistakes in one. Firstly, we do not push them to be more efficient in using resources when possible and, secondly, we do not push them to be able to guarantee uniformity also in those Regions, where the situation from the organisational point of view of the functioning of the public administration is more lacking than in other Regions. The fact that the wise men's report speaks of this safeguard clause, but no longer cites respect for the essential levels of benefits relating to civil and social rights, by mentioning only programmes of national interest, is very worrying. It is a debate, which had already taken place at the beginning of the previous decade, about the role that the existence must play first and, then, the monitoring of the essential levels of performance. My great concern is that on this issue we will return to uncertain ideas and fiscal federalism serves only to guarantee - if it succeeds - compliance with the parameters of public finance, and not a greater uniformity of citizens' rights on the ground. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] (at 13.44 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u84	I inform you that the draft law amending Article 3 of Law No 654 of 13 October 1975 on the fight and repression of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, as defined in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court (No 54) has been reassigned in the deliberating session of the 2nd International Criminal Court. Standing Committee with the opinion of the 1st Commission. The aforementioned Commissions are authorized to convene immediately for the examination of the measure, even in conjunction with today's work of the Assembly. (at 13.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u85	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u86	Mr President, Minister, the legislative act for the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms is now in the third parliamentary passage. Before I deal with the substance of this draft law, I would like to go upstream and recall today's political conditions in which this draft law is being discussed. In this House there is a government supported by a majority, so to speak, anomalous. It is a majority that does not reflect what was the electoral offer during the campaign for the past parliamentary elections this winter. It is a majority which, if the voters of the parties that make up this majority had known it, probably these same parties would not have had the consent they had. We are, therefore, in an abnormal situation. Moreover, this majority was born, started and continues to be a mess, because it oscillates continuously on different positions (for example, the case of VAT or the IMU are emblematic) and is constantly subject to pressure from the right and left, precisely because it is extremely heterogeneous. Dulcis in the end, it is also the subject of the pressures of Silvio Berlusconi, who tried, with alternating fortunes, to tie his judicial affairs with the political path of this majority. All this has generated an objectively very unstable political situation, so much so that within a few months, already twice, this majority has been at risk and has come to this House to ask for confidence. The first time, a prominent person of this majority, the Vice-President of the Council, was the subject of a motion of distrust, which obviously, if it had passed, would have had very serious repercussions; lately, even a short while ago, there was even a request for confidence from the Government in its entirety. We are, therefore, faced with a very unstable political situation. The same President Letta, at the beginning, in his programmatic speech, has given himself a time horizon that is not that of the entire legislature. Already he himself, therefore, realized that the majority, of which he is the leader at the moment, still has a limited time horizon and suffers from a continuous political instability. I now ask myself: are there, therefore, at this moment, the political conditions for addressing a sensitive issue such as constitutional reforms? On the other hand, is there not the risk that the instability which this majority suffers will be transferred equal in the process of constitutional reform, which should, in my opinion, take place under other conditions, those in which there is a stable majority, which can of course also respect the views of the minority, and not instead of a majority that already starts on the wrong foot, already divided within it, let alone if we can respect and take into account the instances of the minority? Would it not therefore be appropriate to postpone these reforms to a new legislature, which is born with a new electoral law, so as to overcome the problems, known to all, of the electoral law that gave rise to this majority? I refer, in particular, to the fact that citizens can directly elect their parliamentarians, rather than they are appointed by the parties. Is it not appropriate, then, to pause for a moment to reflect on this? We are talking here, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, about a very important reform, not just any reform: a reform that affects a large part of the Constitution (almost half of it is mentioned). So this process should take place when the political conditions are more appropriate for a constitutional reform process to be carried out, to which we are not a priori opposed, which is widely shared not only by the majority, but also by oppositions. Well, these conditions are not there today. Today there is a majority that is hostage to a political character, who does not have a long-term strategic vision of the necessary measures for this country, and I am referring to measures that concern the world of work or the world of education. There is no long-term strategy in this government, let alone a vision of the constitutional structure of our country. Colleagues, with these constitutional reforms we are planning tomorrow's Italy, we are planning the future, but not the future in the short term, the future of the coming months: we are planning a new country, a vision of Italy in the long term, what will be in five or ten years, an Italy in which our children will live; therefore this process must take place with the utmost attention, when the political conditions are favourable to do so, and these conditions are not there today. It is also for this reason that we oppose this bill. And then, apart from these general considerations, there are those of a particular nature, which enter into the substance and the way in which this majority wants to implement this reform. This committee of forty parliamentarians is born and the process that the Constitution itself envisaged for the change of itself is overturned. In particular, there is a reduction in the terms of the parliamentary passages of the constitutional reform bill. Now, let us ask ourselves: why this change to Article 138 at this time? It is precisely for the reasons I have just said, which concern the political conditions under which these reforms are to be carried out. For these very reasons of instability, however, in our view, there is no need for the reduction of these time limits; on the contrary, we should take advantage of all the guarantees that Article 138 gives us at this time, which are also those of the thoughtfulness of the interventions. These three months separating the two parliamentary passages are, in fact, a guarantee of thought, in such a way that the country, not only us in this House, but the whole country, has the time to assess on the merits what are the changes of our Constitution. Precisely because they could come from a more anomalous majority, like the one there is right now in this country. That is precisely why there is this need. So, now and more than ever we would need fully the guarantees that the constituent Fathers themselves have included in the Constitution to protect hasty changes, hasty changes, changes that perhaps aim more at short-term electoral reasoning than at a vision of a new country, which is the one that should really lead at this time and that should be the drive to these changes. And then there's the country and there's the citizens. There is the mobilization of citizens. Surely you have not been deaf to the debates that this constitutional bill has generated in the country. There are constitutionalists who have intervened and there has been a collection of signatures from an important daily newspaper in our country. Well, the voice of these citizens is a voice that recommends prudence, it is a voice that recommends attention, it is a voice that once again asks not to upset the Constitution itself in order to achieve its change. It is a voice that calls for change (attention, because the need for change is shared by a large part of the citizens and a large part of the political forces). So, yes to change, but no to the hasty and abnormal way in which you want to make these changes. A no to twisting the way the constituent Fathers wanted the Constitution to change. Well, I hope that colleagues in this House, when they vote on this constitutional bill, will take full account of all these considerations, which are yes political, but also considerations that come from all the citizens. And I hope that we can come to a halt to this constitutional decree and that instead we can channel the necessary and due changes to the Constitution according to the tracks already foreseen for these changes. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u87	Before moving on to the next speech, I would suspend our work for a quarter of an hour, in order to allow both the Minister and the rapporteur a short break. (The sitting was suspended at 2 p.m. and resumed at 2 18 p.m.) Let's resume our work. Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u88	Madam President, Bruno Annarumi, Vittorio Buttarone, Roberto Lordi, Ettore Ronconi, Ivano Scarioli, Sebastiano Silvestri. Madam President, colleagues, although few, and Government, although absent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u89	The Government is present.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u90	FACTORS (M5S). Thank you for pointing that out. It is present but in little number. These are the names of the six citizens of Genzano, a town from which I come, killed at Fosse Ardeatine, a heavy tribute of innocent blood, shed by the hand of the Nazi criminal Erich Priebke, never repented of his heinous crimes, never repented of his collusion with the Nazi regime. As spokesperson for the citizens of the Roman Castles I feel obliged to pronounce these names, to bring in these classrooms, even if empty, their voice that would be outraged by the slanderous coup of the Prefect Pecoraro who bypasses an order of the mayor of Albano, city that obtained the silver medal at the value of the Resistance. Well, with this blow of hand, Prefect Pecoraro wanted to impose the funeral of the Nazi criminal right in Albano. A real provocation for the Roman Castles, which during the Second World War opposed a strong and courageous resistance against Nazi madness, paying with numerous victims: children, women and men fell under the bombings. Yesterday the city of Albano gave back lustre to the medal, resisting now, as it resisted then, not to forget. I therefore ask Prefect Pecoraro, also on behalf of the citizens of the Castles, to have the dignity to resign, the same dignity that he trampled on yesterday.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u91	Senator, I understand the connection between the question that you raise, the Resistance, the fight against Nazism and Fascism, and the Constitution, but on the specific case perhaps it is appropriate to intervene in an inspection union, since this is the general discussion on constitutional changes. FACTORS (M5S). Thank you for pointing out, Madam President, but I believe that the victims of Nazism and Fascism are absolutely in line with the subject under discussion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In fact, Senator Fattori, I have told you that I do not deny this connection. Simply, the specific facts of yesterday would need a speech in the inspection union. Without prejudice to the fact that the link you are developing is perfectly legitimate and well founded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u92	I am sure you will follow a question, Madam President, but if it is legitimate and well-founded, I sincerely see no reason to interrupt. I therefore ask the Prefect Pecoraro, also on behalf of the citizens of the Castles, to have the dignity to resign, the same dignity that yesterday trampled on, for the umpteenth time, in our territories. The same territories that Pecoraro has now and in the past, deputy to Rome's garbage can. Resign, for disrespecting the sacredness of the dead and the tradition of anti-fascist struggle that has always distinguished us and will distinguish us in the future. This is how the citizens are treated by the institutions, who with their blood have given the Fathers constituting the opportunity to draw up our Constitution. I wanted to intervene starting from this event because when we talk about the Constitution too often we forget about two issues. First of all, that concerning its formation and drafting by the Constituents: it is the blood shed by the citizens to give the possibility to the constituent Fathers to write it. And that is not something to underestimate, President: it is the basis of the Constitution, not a detail. The second question concerns the instrumental use of its contents. Once there was the said fact of the law, found the deception, today the concept is also applied to this almost sacred text, our Constitutional Charter, which said principles that are almost always raped. There is a lot of talk about Article 138, the one you are amending, but I want to focus my speech on the continuing violations that are being carried out in legislative formation and its application, always dependent on groups or people of power to whom these changes refer. In a sense, I am glad that, thanks to the aberrant desire to amend Article 138, there has also been a greater awareness by Italian citizens of what is the constitutional text. Here, Parliament has decided, without listening to 25% of the citizens, represented by the 5 Star Movement, to start the constitutional change that changes the way in which the Constitution is changed: instead of starting with the complex process to modify, where really necessary, also for a speech related to the need to update our Constitutional Charter in view of the social evolution and the life of the citizens, here we want to create a sort of descent that leads to the discretion ad libitum to modify all the constitutional principles. The proposal seems to us to be a kind of cauldron, made to change everything that is convenient to amend this Parliament and to give an urgent character. There is always urgency, there is always a rush to make changes that citizens do not care about. Since we settled there has been a continuum of urgent decrees, there has been not even a proposal that has been discussed in the Senate except draft laws of conversion of decrees-laws issued by the Government, which uses the decree excessively, thus violating other constitutional principles contained in Articles 76 and 77, which I am now going to read. Article 76 reads as follows: The exercise of the legislative function may not be delegated to the Government except with the determination of guiding principles and criteria and only for limited time and for defined objects. This is a principle that I have never seen respected in these months. Thus Article 77, which reads as follows: The Government cannot, without delegation of the Chambers, issue decrees that have the value of ordinary law. When, in extraordinary cases of necessity - this is once again the necessity - urgency, the Government adopts, under its responsibility, provisional measures by force of law (...) and so on. They are therefore articles that would give centrality to Parliament, articles that are being violated; at least since I have been here, I have never seen them applied. Do we want to talk about Article 3? Article 3 states that we are all equal before the law. Instead, in these very classrooms, we have experienced the painful moment of the election committee, which will basically, with the vote in the Senate Chamber in the coming months, bring back a fourth and a fifth degree of judgment for a single person. Here, Article 3 tells us that all citizens must be equal before the law. Article 54: "All citizens have a duty to be faithful to the Republic and to observe its Constitution and laws. Citizens entrusted with public functions have a duty to fulfil them with discipline and honor, taking an oath in the cases laid down by law. What did we see? Instead, we have seen an attempt at mass resignation, not by the elected, but by those who, appointed administrators as ministers, should administer the country and not do the interests of one person. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And have these constitutional changes that have taken place over time really been important to citizens? The most recent constitutional change is the noose of the fiscal compact, of the balance of the budget, and it was made quickly to put a patch to political indecency. Are we really sure they need faster times? Are we really sure that there is an urgency, or do we need urgency because it suits us? Are we sure that the Constitution must be the solution or is it only instrumental in the political mindset of the country? As usual the laws are there; it would be enough to respect them to make this country a better country. Reforms should be done, but when they were done, they failed. I am also referring to the tourbillon of Title V, which has emptied Parliament of many powers, to delegate them to that bottomless well that is the Regions. Here, the regions, especially in the area of health, where we know today the major phenomena related to corruption, which has destroyed our health system. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And here I come to the first point, that is the path of what is considered the most beautiful Constitution in the world. A number of people have decided to actually come up with a document that would unite the whole country under the same sky. At that time, the whole of Parliament worked, regardless of the political flag, to draw up the Italian Constitution. Already the words "fundamental rights" and "rights and duties of citizens" give the dimension, beauty and importance of this Constitutional Charter. A short time ago Roberto Benigni, in a reading, even if it is a faction (as Roberto Benigni does), said something sacrosanct in the constitutional interpretation: he said that it is an invitation to make, an exhortation to civil life, a social positivity; there are no words, within the Constitution, that lead back to negativity. I am sorry that Parliament is empty today, because I wanted to mention one last article, Article 67. VOLPI (LN-Aut). I'm counting on you! Then I'll start to say how many you are! FACTORS (M5S). We have three committees. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish your speech, Senator Fattori. FACTORS (M5S). Yeah, if you let me talk, I'll finish it, if you interrupt me, I can't finish it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't let him interrupt you, keep going. FACTORS (M5S). Article 67 is an article that - as you know - our founding father has also criticized so much and on which I invite you today to reflect and consider its importance, also to show you that we are free thinkers and not puppets as you accuse us of being: Each Member of Parliament shall represent the Nation and shall perform his duties without a mandate. I therefore call on all Members to exercise their role to represent the nation that does not want this constitutional change. So, feel free from your mandate and refuse this rape of the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u93	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u94	Madam President, Minister, representatives of the Government, thank you for your attention. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, all of us, neighbours and distant citizens, today I would also like to thank the stenographer's party, which seems to be a majority among us. Madam President, allow me to begin my speech with a preamble, a very important point: never underestimate the man on the road. I will argue this expression from afar. Our Constitution was written after the Second World War, after fascism and after Nazism, after one of the darkest and saddest moments in human history. In the constituent Assembly, a Sub-Committee of 75 Italians, between 1946 and 1948, wrote some of the most touching, right and necessary words ever written before. In 139 articles of the Constitution we find all the antidotes to the barbarity that preceded them: principles and human rights, equality, freedom of thought and expression, freedom of association and much more, but also a wise mixing and redistribution of power to ensure that no man could rule alone anymore. Today the Committee of the 40 Wise Men has had the task, and the permission, of putting in hand 66 articles of the 139 of the Charter, which will be modified in a time of about one and a half years. So, we're actually talking about an assembly, at least semicostituente. In the first discussion here in the Senate we of the 5 Star Movement strongly opposed each other. We are so many citizens, it is true, but perhaps still not enough to stop these actions. We believe that such a complex and extensive reform should start from a higher level of awareness, both in the recent past and in the present. So what are the assumptions and awareness behind this reform? This committee of essays, made up of Chinese boxes of essays, what do you know? And on what grounds? Let's see them. They do not know, for example, that we come from a period of great disinformation; they do not believe that their political class has caused the crisis and the discontent and anger that wanders around the country; they do not admit that, being the cause of all this, they cannot themselves be able to resolve the issues; they do not know that the whole country has now perceived that this government, political, has only one political opposition: the 5 Star Movement, caste against people, privilege against sacrifice; they do not want to take away privileges from those who have never made sacrifices. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] They do not give back what is not theirs; they do not laugh at our statements, both in the Chamber and in the Commission, and they do not realize that these laughter give us even more determination and desire to send them home; they do not see that after a few months we of the Movement debate face-to-face with Ministers and with entire Commissions. Where, then, is all the trouble you were talking about? They don't hear their neighbor saying, and telling us: "Good idea, good idea! Let's do it! Then they remember who they are and they reject all the amendments. They don't feel that we're controlling them and they don't feel our breath on their necks. Too bad, because the 75 Italian Constituents would not have made such a mistake. How to say, never underestimate the man of the street and, above all, the people who know the fatigue of work. Why then is it important to understand where we come from and to understand who and what created the darkness from which we want to get out? In this regard we must make a quotation from a great teacher who many times has already shown us the way. He wrote Pier Paolo Pasolini on the "Corriere della Sera" on 9 December 1973 (yes, gentlemen, on 9 December 1973): There is no doubt (as can be seen from the results) that television is authoritarian and repressive as no means of information in the world. The fascist newspaper and the writings on the farmsteads of muslin slogans make you laugh: like (with pain) the plow compared to a tractor. Fascism, I want to repeat, has not been substantially able even to scratch the soul of the Italian people; the new Fascism, through the new media of communication and information (especially, precisely television), has not only scratched it, but has lacerated it, violated it, ugly forever. It was December 9, 1973, 40 years ago. So why is it important to start again from 1973? Because you knew - whatever you had already said - that a new period of authoritarianism was coming, which saw as the main actor the control of the media. So, you who didn't understand, or rather, that you pretended you didn't understand, now you should be the ones who redefine, rewrite and rebuild our country. You who see and do nothing. This sentence is not mine, but my collaborator wrote it, of which I will now read a piece written by his fist. My collaborator is Rudra Bianzino, son of Aldo Bianzino. He says Rudra: "On October 14th" - two days ago - "For me it is not just any day, as it probably was for all of you. This fateful date has changed my life, and not like a novel, but for real. On October 14 my father died in the prison of Perugia, not even 36 hours after having greeted him for the last time. I'll always remember that moment when I held it in my arms when I was sobbing, almost as if I knew it. Just like a few months later I lost my grandmother, and shortly after that my mother: in short, everything that is dearest to this life. True, very sad, but this is not only what makes me sad; what makes me sad is being forced to carry on a struggle, a fight against the institutions, which are not interested, or rather, do not want to be interested in what happens. Yet, it is strange for a state that is defiant of being democratic, that should protect its citizens, rather than putting them in a situation in which to ask for a right such as the truth we feel in struggle towards something inevitably greater than ourselves. I don't know if you realize that the state, the government, is also represented by people who had the courage to respond, when my mother asked when she could see her husband: "Tuesday, after the autopsy." For many it is only words, words that I live every day. Writing this I am not blaming you ladies, don't worry. By writing these words, I simply want to tell you that it will be your fault, even if you know it will not change. Be aware of this. Of course, my family will not be able to give it back to me even the whole State, but the State will be able to commit and make sure that no more such events happen and, if unfortunately they happen again, the State undertakes not to get its name dirty in the appearance of an accomplice that everything sees and does nothing. That's what Rudra writes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So why is it important to listen and have the courage to decide, Minister? Why is it especially important to manifest? Because to make decisions it is good to have understood the problem to be solved, and I do not tell you directly, Minister, but I tell young Gaetano, activist, antinuclearist, arrested because he manifested. I also tell the former leader of the radical party, why not? I now read directly from yesterday's shorthand report. You say in your speech: '... the Commission has carried out an intense and complex activity, dealing with issues that have been at the heart of the debate for many years and often of the political confrontation'. Then I wonder whether you have in fact decreed the inability of the political action of past legislation with these words. I still read from his speech: "It was a question of facilitating the exercise of the power of initiative and of deliberation which is the responsibility of the constitutional bodies and, above all, of Parliament, which is responsible for implementing the reforms necessary to modernise the republican institutions." Launch? But we are not simply here to launch reforms: we must and want to participate in the training process and that it is a constitutional process. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] It also says: " (..) the parties - without which, it is good to point out, a democratic system is not even conceivable - have appeared in serious difficulty in fulfilling their main constitutional functions of linking society and institutions, of selecting the ruling class (...)" Minister, parties are not an indispensable part of the democratic system, because democracy means popular sovereignty and the government of the people, but not necessarily party government. In addition, there is talk of criticality in the selection of the ruling class. But aren't you the ones who named Scaroni, Guarguaglini, Lorenzetti et cetera, et cetera, et cetera? Would you who appoint such figures be the ones who will restore goodness to the selection of the ruling class? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Why does it seem a blasphemy in this House to say that a person who is finally convicted of tax fraud cannot represent the citizens in Parliament? Why? The Minister said again: The crisis of the parties, as irreplaceable instruments through which citizens contribute to determining national policy (...).......................................................................................... We know, however, that it is the very mechanisms of the parties that determine the distance between citizens and institutions. The Minister then said: The reforms also serve to promote a process of strengthening and regeneration of the parties (...)................................................................... So here we are: what you want is simply a process of strengthening and regeneration of the parties. I am still quoting your words, Minister..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We know that in Italy bipolarism is and will remain only a vain phrase, because precisely our nature and the identity of the Italian people are contrary to the very conception of bipolarism. She - again - says: I am also convinced that the experience of the Government of broad understanding constitutes a parenthesis due to the political, economic and social circumstances in which Italy is located today. In fact, we have accepted this Government and this majority not as broad understandings, no longer as iniqucio, but as a majority and a political government! I believe, however, that the problem - she says - is not to defend the bipolarism we have experienced in the last twenty years; the problem is rather to draw our institutions in such a way as to make possible a well-tempered bipolarism (...). But who decides this? Who has decided that the parliamentary form for our Italy is actually bipolarism? Certainly not the Italians. Let us see what the Committee has decided: the strengthening of Parliament by reducing the number of Members; the overcoming of bicameralism............................................................................................................. Single-camera trust; simplification of decision-making and introduction of fixed-date voting for draft laws. And again: reform of the constitutional system of the Regions and local self-governments.............................................................................................. And then: "Reform of the system of government (...)", "rationalization of the form of parliamentary government (...), "semi-presidency", "Parliamentary government of the Prime Minister". The report does not deal with - and I would like to conclude here the quote - issues relating to the reform of justice......................................................... [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr Quagliariello, you have also said that the current amendment is very welcome to a public opinion calling for the regeneration of policy. I ask you a question: are you really so sure that public opinion is calling for a regeneration of the political class? I repeat, are you really that sure? I quote a brief excerpt from his speech, which concludes as follows: With regard to the limits resulting from the absence of a neutral figure at the summit of the State (...), it is the most effective antidote against the risks of abuse of the power of the majority. You are therefore opposed to the risk of abuse of power by the majority. ( [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] Here Pirandello could not have done better: abuse of power by the majority. I would like to remind you, however, that in this piece of "Il fu Mattia Pascal" Pirandello makes an apology for dictatorship and fascism, at the expense of false democracy. Let's think about this passage. Still, in his speech he states that "the parties (...) were overwhelmed by the storm of anti-politics". Still with the history of anti-politics! Citizens are not against politics. It is as if one woke up in the morning and said that it is against geography: it is impossible! Politics is a beautiful thing. We are against professional politicians, those who go beyond two mandates; those who rule the country thinking not of the interests of citizens, but only and exclusively of the next elections. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then she says: The lack of effective decision-making capacity of the institutional political system would, for the most part, derive from other factors: politically, conflicts within majorities and, above all, at the implementation level, from the characteristics assumed by the administrative dimension............................................................................................................................ But in his words we do not see terms such as corruption of politics, vote of exchange, nominations of parliamentarians made by party leaders. Another quote from his speech: The possible changes of government during the legislature respond to the formation of new positions of the majority or to the formation of a different explicit majority....................................................................................................... So, in fact, you yourself are criticizing Article 67. Have you understood that the problem of instability is the fact that Article 67 has now ceased its function, as the link between the electorate and the elected one has been interrupted? I am still quoting from your report: This is the proposal that we could define as "the Prime Minister's parliamentary form of government" (...) and therefore with "the President of the Council," in order to incorporate the Premier's choice in the choice of the majority (...). So, in fact, you are proposing that, after the Schifani praise and after the Alfano praise, the Quagliariello praise will arrive. The most beautiful part of his speech was the choice of electoral form. She says: The analogy between semi-presidentialism and the Prime Minister's form of government is confirmed by the fact that the electoral system that would best adapt to this model is the one that provides, after the first round, a ballot between the first two parties or between the first two coalitions, each of which would indicate its candidate for the post of Prime Minister (...). So, in fact, we have understood that this electoral law that you are imagining is written exactly against the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But you must always take into account the fact that your percentages may decrease. Then let me suggest to you: let us go to the elections, let us see the percentages and, on the basis of them, make your electoral law that automatically excludes us, so that you may be more effective. One of his last statements, Minister, is as follows: The strengthening of the circuits of representative democracy must also be accompanied by the strengthening of the mechanisms of direct participation of citizens. (...) This is a burden which the electoral system alone could not and cannot bear, even more so in the presence of a serious crisis of the political system and its strong fragmentation, with three almost equivalent positions. Minister, you have said that there are currently three lines of almost equivalent consistency, so I would like to answer you: equivalent to who? I spent 400 euros to be elected senator. I returned 40 million euros of electoral refunds. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In addition, I have returned EUR 1.4 million in parliamentary allowances. I'm not equivalent, much less to you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Of course, it is now up to Parliament and politics to take the basic decisions. You then accused us of obstruction in Parliament, but the 5 Star Movement was the only one who fought for Parliament to make sense. Parliament no longer decides anything: it must only approve the decree-laws of the Government quickly, without discussion, always in the name of the emergency. The government has replaced itself in Parliament: it governs and makes laws in its place. You've noticed, too, lately. The decree was read line by line, analyzed by our boys who proposed 803 amendments. The President of the Council replied that there were too many. The 5 Star Movement has brought them to 75: still too many. We reduced them to 8, in particular by preserving those for small and medium-sized enterprises and support for families. The Government has rejected with contempt also this proposal made - it should be remembered - by a parliamentary force that represents 25% of Italians. You don't want to argue with us. Parliament does not seem to exist. That's why we did what the "giornalai" call "obstructionism." Italians, however, know nothing about Article 138 and constitutional reform, because they are not informed. We were the only ones who informed them. Article 138 requires two votes of the Chambers and a confirmed referendum to amend the Constitution: it is the safe that prevents the party's hands from changing the Constitution at their liking. Once the barrier of Article 138 has been removed, you can make a shitload of the Constitutional Charter to armor your project. The Movement is not opposed to any constitutional reform. We believe that the Constitution should be changed in order to give more power to citizens, with the introduction - for example - of the proposed referendum without quorum and the obligation to discuss the laws of popular initiative. We dream of a country where the people command and the government obey. The constitutional reforms you want to make go in exactly the opposite direction: to remove further powers from a Parliament that has already been exonerated to give them into the hands of a few, and to derogate from Article 138 of the Constitution. Among the rejected amendments was also that of the 5 Star Movement which asked for the participation of 60 citizens, drawn by lot, to follow the work of the Committee, with a reimbursement of expenses obviously paid by the State. I conclude, Minister, by saying: do what you want, reform, change, upset, derogate, do not listen. Do what you want: we win so much. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u95	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u96	Madam President, the first Commission that indicated a series of constitutional reforms was the Bozzi Commission in 1984; thirty years later, several attempts later, it is decided that, in order to change the Constitution, the rule itself must first be changed. The crisis of politics, the crisis of parties, of those who have to compete with the democratic method to determine national politics - as our Constitution says - has not allowed in recent years to face those nodes that not even yet another Commission of Wise Men, set up to suggest solutions, succeeds in the end to face. One hundred and sixty pages of report to hear us say that we must regenerate the parties, that governments must be faster and more efficient, that we must revive democratic participation, ensure efficiency and stability in the political system and strengthen public ethics. The proposal that is presented is to change the procedure by which the Constitution is amended. It has been proposed to make a Charter which, if it had been applied in its entirety, would in all likelihood have prevented or at least not exploded the problems that we want to solve today. This is how we pursue an old vice of our Republic: the emergency, a much more useful method to do what we want without political confrontation and without the responsibility to make choices of perspective. Today the only real emergency for all is the implementation of the Constitution, including Article 49. Piero Calamandrei, who has been quoted in this House today, said that in Italy it is not possible to achieve a complete democracy if those who are not truly democratic are also those who are responsible for determining national policy. If we want to try to change Italy, then, we make the parties transparent and democratic in their actions, as well as in the transparent methods of financing. The Minister has repeatedly made it clear that the only thing he really cares about is the stability of the form of government, the effectiveness of political action. As after bribes the crisis of representation of the parties deepened, the response of the Italian political class was only to flee from the problem in order to pursue shortcuts, blaming its own crisis on the electoral system: the overcoming of pure proportional representation, the abolition of the preference vote, bipolarism, until reaching a reform of the electoral law made to ensure a coalition to maximize the advantage in the regions where it was stronger, in case it had won the other; it is the case of the "porcellum." Well, although parliamentarians were chosen by the leaders of the parties, we witnessed passages from the coats of arms, we had weak and hybrid governments, and this was the consequence and cause of the growing weakness of the political forces, which were no longer able to represent social groups, were perceived as groups of power, of interest, far from the needs of the citizens. Is it the fault of the rules if there have not been majorities capable of effectively governing even in the presence of huge numbers? Are the scandals and ugliness of politics the fault of an old constitution? We believe that it is precisely the absence of politics that is responsible for this. The theme that today is strongly imposed on us all, is how to rebuild the relationship between citizens and institutions, between citizens and politics; how to reactivate that democratic participation that has allowed the country, in the past years, to make real reforms of civilization. The level of mistrust and resignation of the citizens is all in the dramatic fact of abstention in the last elections: 25% of Italian citizens do not have parliamentary representation, just as they are not represented, thanks to the "porcellum," all those who voted other political forces, but have not reached the barrier threshold. That has become a worthless vote! So how do we respond to this crisis of participation? By reducing the number of Members of Parliament, on which we would still be prepared to confront each other. This seems to be the cause of bad politics and waste. I believe that we must do a work of truth and clarity. The reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, in this way, means reducing democratic representation spaces. We are really talking about reducing the costs of Members without necessarily having to cut participation and democracy. Reduce elected assemblies means subtracting citizens from powers of direction, verification and control over governments. This idea of the reduction of democracy in the name of spending review you have already pursued with the reduction of municipal councils, where the number of elected has narrowed to allow those who govern to do so indisturbedly, and many, too many in the name of populism are those who have been convinced that in order to reduce waste it was necessary to cut democracy. Yet we must ask ourselves why, during the constituent phase, in a less populated Italy, 630 Members and 315 senators were chosen. Today we understand well the logic of this reform: transforming the parties into electoral committees, strengthening the tendency to personalize politics and the level of the executive with respect to Parliament, which is thus reduced in its powers and becomes a sort of assembly of shareholders with certain powers of control, minimal powers of direction with respect to the council of administration represented by the Government. It is not to put at the centre the democratization of forms of representation, providing for rules of extended democracy and transparency for parties, duties of information and transparency for representatives, all, from municipal to regional councillors, to parliamentarians, including Ministers; so much so, as the Minister has told us, we will give citizens a condolences with some initiative of direct democracy. Last Saturday thousands and thousands of citizens in Rome recalled that the Constitution must be implemented, that it is the main way of politics. It hasn't happened in years to see so many people in the streets defending democracy. We of Left Ecology and Freedom were there, because we are aware that a real battle of civilization and the defence of rights is going on. What is most disconcerting is how all this has been ignored, but just look at the low profile of the majority, the few speeches, the total absence in this House. I understand that it is hard for those who have to accept a bad proposal: it is easier not to listen to the debate, not to listen to the citizens; rather than to read the parliamentary reports! Yet a few months ago, in this very Chamber, there were authoritative voices from the Democratic Party in the debate to say that they would never and never vote for a change in the Constitution and the form of government, in the name of a defence of Article 138. And now? What's changed? Months ago we thought that semi-presidentialism was a request of the PdL placed on the table of broad understandings, today, in front of a deeply changed political scenario, we have the strong doubt - but very strong - that the truth can be another. In reading the text we remain very unarmed by the poverty of cultural proposal and the lack of imagination that emerges from these documents; I am thinking only of the issue of vote on a fixed date. In short, I believe that with this vote that you are preparing to express and with which you are undertaking this process of reform, you assume a great responsibility, which is certainly to cancel the parliamentary prerogatives, precisely those prerogatives that were introduced to protect democracy, and you do it in a truly shameful way, through a real dictatorship of the majority. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u97	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u98	Madam President, Minister, members of the Government, citizens, I would like to remind you again of the text of Article 138 of the Constitution of the Italian Republic: "The laws of revision of the Constitution and other constitutional laws are adopted by each Chamber" - I repeat: by each Chamber - "with two successive resolutions at an interval of not less than three months, and are approved by an absolute majority of the members of each Chamber" - I repeat again: each Chamber - "in the second vote." The laws themselves are subject to a popular referendum when, within three months of their publication, one fifth of the members of a House or five hundred thousand voters or five regional councils apply. The law submitted to a referendum is not promulgated unless it is approved by a majority of valid votes. There is no referendum if the law was passed in the second vote by each of the Chambers - I repeat: each of the Chambers - is a two-thirds majority of its members. This is the text of Article 138. The draft law No 813-B, as it is written and presented to us, aims to set up a parliamentary committee for constitutional and electoral reforms, composed of 20 senators and 20 deputies, appointed by their respective presidents, and the Presidents of the parliamentary committees, to which the Presidency of the Committee itself is entrusted, are legally members. All in the family! And the dirty clothes of course wash in the family, wash them in the family! And yes, because it can be recognized conventionally and only that the father, Piddielle, married in civic marriage his mother, Piddimenoelle, marriage from which the saddles were born, all tied in autonomy: this is the real paradox and, in fact, they all lived unhappy and discontented. But let's stay on the piece, as they say today in jargon. This Committee, which should be set up, will have the task of examining or drafting draft constitutional revision laws, the systems of election of the two Chambers (the same Chambers which were mentioned in Article 138 of the Constitution) and the amendments to the Constitution. In addition, it is specified that the operating expenses of the Committee are charged, in equal parts, to the internal budget of the Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies. And other expenses down! At this point I quote part of the text of Mr Blundo's speech, which you, Minister, have not been able to listen to for health reasons, but it is appropriate to know the figures: We have unemployment at 12%, youth unemployment has reached 40%, 15 million Italians live in a condition of deprivation and economic hardship, we have a school dropout that has reached unprecedented percentages, a decrease in consumption and the purchasing power of wages that other European countries do not envy us at all. As many as 12,442 companies closed in 2012, to which we add the 4,218 that in the first quarter of this year delivered the books to the Court of Auditors - figures never seen, yet they appear - these are the priorities that this House has to face, but according to the reasoning of the Government and the majority the introduction of the direct election of the Head of State or the strengthening of the powers of the Prime Minister would allow the Italian citizens to face the day serenely. We of the 5 Star Movement are certain that, in doing so, the power conferred on the Chambers will be definitively exonerated, leaving to them only the possibility to vote on the changes made: beyond the damage, even the mockery! To date, the Chambers have legislative power and the Government is left with executive power. Today you want to turn everything upside down. But let's move on. There are many other parts that do not convince us: the compression of parliamentary work, the limits of amendment to Members of Parliament, the reduction of the prerogatives of individual Members and senators, the dangerous possibility of extending the revision to other articles of the Constitution (so much, done one, done all: this - who knows - could be one of the intentions), the lack of attention to the publicity of the Committee's work, the absolute lack of transparency of the Commission of so-called wise men. They are all elements of irrationality that put the text under consideration in a dark and conspiracy light. This appears to us. It is also indicative that in the first resolution the bill n. 813-B never exceeded the quorum of two thirds, neither the Senate nor the Chamber. The question at this point arises spontaneously. Why do we want to avoid this debate in this House? Why so much haste to change the basic rules of our Constitution? Why should power be concentrated in the hands of the Government and the Committee, by eliminating that legislative function which, since 1 January 1948, has been the main role of Parliament? Who or what do you want to facilitate? All this you have to give to the Italian citizens. You know that this reform is not the country's priority. You know well that at this moment we must give stability to those who do not have a job and to those who, unfortunately, are going to lose it: to the precarious, to pensioners, to the young people who want to build a future and a family, but who cannot do so. You know everything and know everything, especially you know how to keep the chair already conquered. Yet, a bill such as that on citizenship income - which we have been proposing for a long time, while you are a merchant - would be enough to give support to all those people who struggle day by day, to the limit of survival. It would be enough, it would be your ransom. I don't want to believe you're just capable of turning around. It is not possible that you want only this and that you want to carry out unnecessary and costly projects. I would like to believe that there is no TAV or TAP and no megagalactic construction, which devastates the territory and enriches only the multinationals and, perhaps, someone else's pockets. Once again, we ask you - it is the citizens who ask you and urge you to reflect constantly on this - to demonstrate that they are not light years away from people's everyday lives. But words remain empty, as this House is often empty, because you do not want to change this country. You insist on changing the rules that govern this country, and why? To mold them as you please. The message that we want to leave today is hope, the hope - vain - that one day a fateful enlightenment will come and it is possible to awaken from this bad dream. I want to conclude my speech with a sentence, which has a particular meaning for us in the 5 Star Movement: They will never give up. But does he want to? We don't either! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u99	Senator Gotor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for the constitutional reforms for the comprehensive information he made yesterday in this House. I have had the opportunity to read the Commission's acts and the individual details and it seems to me that the Commission has been guided by a sense of shared responsibility and that it has done quality work. For a verse, he tried to identify a common language among constitutionalists of different orientations, with the aim of verifying the practical and technical feasibility of a series of reasonable solutions for the concrete Italian context, thus avoiding the tastes, often self-referential, of an abstract modeling. In another verse, the sense of responsibility has manifested itself in compliance with the time limits set before the beginning of the work. The Commission, as the Minister pointed out yesterday, was due to adopt a report by 15 October, but already on 17 September there was a provisional draft of the final version. It is an excellent signal, because the work of constitutional reform must be lucid, but accompanied by a feeling of urgency and hard work: we cannot pretend to have before us an indefinite time, because so we will only amplify the sense of inconclusivity of politics. As indicated by President Letta's schedule, eighteen months are the time necessary to dedicate oneself to the enterprise and to have begun in compliance with the set deadlines, it is not only a sign of seriousness of intent, but also a good viatico for the continuation of the works. Timely, effective and destined to last over time, these are the reforms that Italy awaits from us. Reading the report reveals two completely shared underlying points. The first recognizes the need for a change of Part II of the Constitution, starting from a guiding principle stated to the constituent Assembly of 1946 by Luigi Einaudi: It is not from the letter of a Constitution that we need to derive more fruitful elements: the letter was written in other times, when the needs were different; it is more interesting to see what use has been made of that system created many years ago. At the same time, we will never tire of repeating the indisputable value of Part I of the Charter dedicated to fundamental principles, which constitute the foundation of our common home. Not because Part II of the Charter should be isolated from I, but because I can only be implemented if II really works. The second point concerns the conviction, which Mr Quagliariello reiterated yesterday, that a democracy without parties is not even conceivable. It is precisely the strength of this assumption, however, that obliges us to recognize that the current parties are today in difficulty in fulfilling their constitutional functions: the representation of society and of what is tumultuous and elusive is agitated within it; the selection of the ruling class; the elaboration of long-term strategies. Rather, they seem crushed on a perennial electoral horizon, amplified by the communication system, which has raised the rate of militancy and internal and external division, in pursuit of a consensus without a project, which tends to increase in reality their progressive delegitimization. There are several good reasons for this exceptional reform effort, some quotas, others long-term. First of all, the current majority in government is justified precisely by the commitment made before Parliament in this area and it would be a serious mistake to waste this opportunity of necessity. Secondly, it is good to recall that the President of the Republic has conditioned his exceptional re-election to the commitment to follow up an incisive reform of the state: he is able to revive democratic participation, to ensure efficiency and stability in the political system and to strengthen public ethics. Moreover, the process of European integration obliges Italy, if it wants to remain competitive, to increase efficiency, timeliness and decision-making capacity. The adherence to an average European standard must be the compass of many of our interventions, avoiding always access to the commonplace of an alleged Italian exceptionality. This applies to the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, as well as to the correction of the perfect bicameralism, with the entrusting of political trust to the Chamber of Deputies alone and the distinction between a legislative function and a control function between the two Assemblies. Then there is a problem that concerns the assembleristic drift of our parliamentary system, of which the regulatory obstruction of these hours by the 5 Star Movement is tangible sign, recalling an old and very old politics. The Commission's ordinary powers must be strengthened in order to avoid the continued use of emergency procedures, such as decree-laws, major amendments and trusts. All this, not only harms Parliament's constitutional prerogatives, but produces a legislative avalanche of clauses and codes, with which we confront each other every day, which undermine the clarity of relations between the State and citizens, increasing the discredit of the Government and Parliament. Finally, there is a problem of stability, which cannot be eluded, because without stability the function of representation fails, as much as the ability to decide, and institutional discredit grows. This requirement accompanies as a ghost the constitutional history of the Republic from the time of the agenda of Thomas Perassi of 4 September 1946, on the basis of which it was adopted: " (...) the parliamentary system to be regulated, however, with constitutional arrangements suitable to protect the needs of stability of government action and to avoid the degenerations of parliamentarism." Little has been done since then, both on the side of a greater incisiveness of the reform of parliamentary regulations, which would have avoided the need for today's constitutional intervention, and for undoubted historical reasons: during the Cold War, the instability of governments was paradoxically fueled by the stability of the world geopolitical context that prevented the exchange and a normal dialectic with the opposition; in the last twenty years, due to a muscular bipolarism, founded on the reciprocal delegitimation of the enemy and characterized by a practice of the majority devoid of the necessary political and civil culture. This allowed for the first time the alternation of forces in the government, but provided that weak majorities were stabilised, because they were poorly cohesive, not formed on common perspectives and programs, but on the personal follow-up of the individual leaders. We have thus had parties, parties and majorities able to gather consensus, but not to express governability. The complexity of the problems to be faced and the good reasons for the system that lead us to do so make almost surreal and certainly not up to the current Italian political and institutional crisis the ideological opposition, too often malicious and poisoned, that seems to dominate the public debate, among the intellectual defenders of the Constitution as it is and those who want to upset it. It's not like that. I stress this point because the other point on which we are called today is the strengthening of Article 138 of the Constitution. As a Democratic Party we have chosen this main road, which guarantees not only the full sovereignty of Parliament, but also the involvement of every citizen. This reform process will end in a confirmed referendum even if a two-thirds majority is reached in Parliament. As I have already said in this House, the new elements of this decision do not escape us, but let us consider the derogation, which we reaffirm today, from Article 138 justified by a higher common good which binds us before our national community. We need a frank commitment and free from ideological prejudices to involve and inform the greatest number of citizens, not only with the precious tools of the network that have also been activated by the Government, but also with the mobilization of parties, which must organize information and listening campaigns. Last Sunday I was in Trevinano, a small hamlet between Lazio, Umbria and Tuscany, and to my amazement I found myself in front of a hundred citizens eager to know and understand what is happening. There are no friends of the 5 Star Movement, citizens of the A series, those who write to you and who all too often exploit your interventions, and those who instead meet the Democratic Party around Italy in its daily political activity. Also thinking of them, the small community of Trevinano, I conclude by confirming the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms: to restore confidence in the institutions of the Republic and make Italy more efficient and competitive. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u101	Senator Palermo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u102	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister very much for the report he has presented to us, which is full of ideas and possible solutions to the institutional deadlock in which this country stands. It is clear that the report, being a complex text, has something that is acceptable and others less, but the aim was to stimulate reflection and this objective has certainly been achieved. I have to say that criticism of this review process mainly focuses on the method, but it seems to me that the method is the strongest, most appreciable aspect, also because so far we have only reached this point and the content will come. It is appreciated for the degree of pluralism that for the first time is introduced in this way in a constitutional revision: there had never been before the case of an academic stimulus as varied as this report of the sages, a public consultation of this kind made by the Government, the decision - it should be remembered - that remains firmly anchored in the Parliament's classrooms and the preparation of the work made by a small group, composed of members of the merit committees that should also be the most qualified to do so. It is clear that if the whole of this House had taken care of it, nothing would have been achieved. There is also a constituency of areas of intervention: a new Constitution is not being written, perhaps this should be repeated. The question of Article 138 is not really convincing, because it is a one-off derogation, but above all a procedural one, which serves to strengthen and not weaken the guarantees laid down in Article 138, which, incidentally, are not particularly strong. Our Constitution, among the rigid ones, is one of the least rigid. This is a path to stiffen it a little bit more, let's say so. There will be a de facto mandatory referendum, even if the reform is approved by a two-thirds majority, for example. On the contrary, I would say that even the obstructionism that we are experiencing today shows that we need to adapt this Constitution, by introducing, for example, an adequate statute for opposition, which is lacking today. This is a problem, because the opposition has no other instrument than to lengthen the times, to try to have more time, but in the end from the point of view of practical incisiveness there is little. In short, amidst many difficulties we have managed to find the right path and this thanks also to the good work of the Minister and President Finocchiaro, whom I take advantage of to thank. I would like to focus on just two issues, among the many dealt with in the report, which are connected: one is the bicameral structure and the other is what is defined - with an expression that I personally do not like very much - the form of State. It was already used in the Bicamerale D'Alema, but this terminology remains a problem, it would be better to talk about relations between the state, regions and local authorities. As for the bicameral arrangement, the need to overcome the perfect bicameralism is established, but, having done so, we will have to think more about what to differentiate and how to do it. In fact, the problem is essentially the relationship of trust between the Senate and the Government. Everyone agrees, I hope also in this House, that this report will have to be removed, but then the opinions on the role of the second chamber are still completely open and we will have to think about it in the Committee. The prevailing opinion in the work of the Government Commission is that of a Senate with mixed composition, i.e. largely elective but with a legal presence of the Presidents of the Region. It seems to me that an option of this kind would create a system that is neither meat nor fish and would not solve what in doctrine was called Madison's paradox, that is, that for which the Senate is either elective or territorial, but the two things together hardly go. If it is elective (and does not matter if it is directly or indirectly elected), the political criterion inevitably prevails over the territorial one. Therefore, if you want a territorial Senate, this must not be elective and therefore cannot be a political House. Therefore, the House of Regions, which everyone is talking about, risks being an empty slogan of content. We'll think about it. Halfway solutions are perhaps potentially problematic and it does not seem entirely peregrine the hypothesis, advanced by some members of the Commission, of even considering a single-chamber arrangement, constitutionalizing the Conferences and introducing them into the legislative circuit for some subjects. But of course there will be a way of discussing this in depth in the Committee. The second and final point concerns the question of Title V. All the members of the Commission - and we do not need to be particularly wise to realize this - agree on the poor performance of the system introduced by the 2001 reform, because it has brought little clarity, a high conflict between the State and the Regions and the fact that many regions have either forced a little too much the constitutional limits or, much more often, have shown excessive prudence or, for various reasons, have not exploited the areas of competence that even the reform acknowledged them. To make things worse, as we know, the new financial reports introduced by Article 119 have been implemented for a very long time and then, when finally the law on so-called fiscal federalism was passed in 2009, everything was overwhelmed by the economic emergency, the implementing decrees got bogged down and therefore remained essentially firm. That the system should be profoundly changed and that some basic competences should be transferred back to the State (e.g. the large transport networks, which are a matter of national interest as well as the coordination of communication, ports), is certainly a welcome aspect. However, it remains to be understood - this report does not yet say so - in which direction we want to go. The solution depends on the analysis of the problem that is being done, the therapy depends on the diagnosis and many, unfortunately also among the tests, seem to think that regional autonomy is the problem, when it seems to me instead that it is the solution. If we are going to reform, I would say, Title V, but thinking that we need to recentralise the system, we risk curing evil with the wrong medicine and making the problem worse instead of solving it. This applies also and above all to special autonomy, which are often seen as exceptions to be tolerated, not to be touched and, where possible, deleted. But it should not be forgotten that these represent a phenomenon that affects 20% of the regions, 15% of the population and 25% of the national territory. These regions can and should be the driving force behind decentralisation for all, rather than being seen, and I quote one of the reports: 'Now, seventy years after the end of the war, which is largely unjustified, only a source of unacceptable inequalities' (an argument that does not seem very legal). In these years, as we know, instead of making the ordinary regions more special, we have tried to make the special regions more ordinary, and I do not think that the results have been particularly brilliant. We will have to think about this too. But the basic point where you will want to go is then about the instruments with which to implement this review. In the Commission, the assumption that it is necessary to go beyond the catalogues of the subjects in order to introduce general areas and policies, instead of detailing the specific competences of the State and the Regions, seems to prevail. The intention is certainly to simplify, and it is commendable, but the consequence in this way risks being easily a centralization of competences, because it is evident that the wider and more generic the scope, the easier it is to identify a prevailing national interest that inevitably attracts the single function to the center. It seems to me more in line with the intention of a decentralization that functions in the opposite direction, namely to specify much more in detail the competences and to identify more clearly who does what. This, not by chance, is the direction in which we have gone in the most recent reforms that have affected other European states. I am thinking of the revision of the German Basic Law in 2006, of the new Spanish Statutes, and even of the United Kingdom, where a more precise division of competences is being codified in recent legislation. But all these are reflections for the work that awaits us. We must now start and then constructively discuss the contents and, as the Minister said, thank you: we cannot fail, let us try! [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u103	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, all citizens, we are here to approve the constitutional bill No 813-B for the establishment of a parliamentary committee for constitutional and electoral reforms. I would like to say two things, one on the form of the bill and the other on the substance. As regards the form, the Committee will be composed of twenty senators and twenty deputies, appointed by the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate among the members of the Permanent Commissions and competent for constitutional affairs. I am a little puzzled by this statement, because we do not understand why Members who are not members of these Commissions should be excluded a priori. Some might say that if he had known this from the outset, he would have come to this Commission. So, since it is worth a lot to us the idea that things are done without our knowledge! This might be there, but let's move on. Paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the draft law achieves politicality in its pure state when it says that the Committee will be constituted . on the basis of the overall numerical consistency of the Groups and the number of votes obtained by the lists and the coalitions of lists attributable to them, ensuring in any case the presence of at least one representative for each Group. This rule is justified by the fact that the latest changes in the electoral law give majority prizes that amplify the gap between parliamentary votes. We will verify how experts will manipulate mathematics to allow such brain-dividing. Again, again in paragraph 2: "If during the five days following the date of entry into force... one or more Groups have not made such appointment, the Presidents of the Chambers, in agreement with each other,... shall appoint the members (...) "." What can I say? My compliments, because there will be no more excuses. We're finally leaving. Why so much haste if in all the Permanent Commissions earlier this year we have waited months for the Groups to appoint senators, in violation of the Senate Rules? Finally, we saw the anti-Mafia Commission on Tuesday, which started eight months late and immediately jumped due to the lack of quorum, because the honourable Members did not agree to whom will go to the chair of the Presidency. We just have to think: or that the mob doesn't bother you - and here I would like to say: I hope you're not mobsters - or that the most important thing is to have the chair. With these serious features - and I mean the search for seats, the pianists, the ball-voters, the absent persons who are never present in this House - I wonder how it is possible for honourable senators appointed by the head of the party to change the Constitution. We are the fruit of an anti-constitutional law and we give ourselves this right. If we also analyse the second paragraph of Article 2, it also allows modifications closely related to other provisions of the Constitution or constitutional law. It is therefore highly likely that the Committee, in addition to examining the articles of Title I, II, III and V of Part II, will also cover other areas. In addition, I think it is very wrong to unify electoral and constitutional reform: these are two distinct areas and these must be maintained. In any case, we do not understand why it is the Government that is calling loudly for reform: this should be a prerogative of Parliament. I shall now make a comment on the substance. The President of the Council of Ministers established by his decree, on 11 June 2013, this Commission, chaired by the present Minister, initially made up of 35 personalities, great experts on the subject. I note with joy that later two of them resigned, and happens to be two women. Congratulations! The days pass and it turns out that some of them do not seem great experts, as they want us to believe: we are investigated because they cheated the competitions; who had approved, supported, shared laws proved then anti-institutional; who remembered after 17 years, who changed his mind on the same topic three times a day; who gave illustrious and abstruse opinions. I'm gonna stop here, but I could read a lot of people's résumés. Well, this Commission outlines the main course of the debate, with a six-point report: overcoming bicameralism, legislative procedure, Title V, form of government, electoral system, institutions of electoral participation. I would just like to comment on this last point, because it is very dear to me, because I would like to remind you that our Constitutional Charter provides for 50,000 voters to be able to table a bill. I remember that we presented here in 2007 three proposals for popular initiative law, signed with 332,225 signatures, ignored by the Senate. I would like to remind you of the content of this: a ban on candidates for election in Parliament, ultimately and not; the limit of two legislative acts for Members; the amendment of the electoral law through the introduction of the preference vote. The first two points could be accepted by the parties as codes of conduct. As you can see, it didn't take long, and things would have changed! I would like to make a proposal because, from what I understand, what many people call the regeneration of parties is researched in the new electoral law and in the subsequent government structure, but I would prefer to call the reverging of the political class. I think it is really the opposite because I believe that after two mandates a person really has to go home, and I do not mean in the parastatal bodies, in the participating or in the foundations, however without prebende, without golden pensions, without vitality and therefore go home to work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I had the opportunity to follow in Mantua, at the Festival of Literature, a beautiful meeting with Giovanni Sartori, who gave a very good lesson on the subject, demonstrating that this would be the true implementation of Article 67 of the Constitution on the bond of mandate; therefore, we would no longer have a mandate bond to the leader, but we would have it towards our voters. I have spoken to some of you, especially among the youngest, even in the House of Deputies, and I have heard that after this adventure I will go home - I am a doctor - and instead others must maintain relationships because in this way they will have guaranteed a future. I realize my great freedom of thought, so much so, for example, that here, a couple of weeks ago, I pointed out how heavy and dangerous it is to burn waste (what we call CSS in cement factories and whatnot). I know that this topic has displeased someone (I had meetings in public squares and on the 28th I also went to L'Aquila to talk about this topic). For me, however, it is not a problem because, after this adventure, I will go back to being a doctor, to do my studies on that perinatal death (of which yesterday it was remembered the day), which I am very dear. I even asked President Gasparri if he wanted to see some slides: I would show him what we find in our children's lungs (which I already demonstrated a long time ago). I come up with another proposal based on the article in the Constitutional Charter which states that criminal liability is personal. Well, in this House I have heard a strong demand for the criminal responsibility of the judges - which, moreover, is already there - but I would also like the criminal responsibility of the politician, the senator. In fact, I am a doctor and I know that in 1960 doctors already knew that asbestos created mesothelioma: well, it took us 32 years to make a law! Now, we doctors know many things; we know how for the environment certain metals and burnt waste create health damage with insane economic costs. So, you'd have to work on lifestyles and whatnot. Why do we not do anything about it and deny literature? I will conclude, again with regard to electoral participation, by pointing out that in Italy we do not actually have a proactive referendum, but we have only a repeal and, moreover, a very high quorum (50% plus 1). This is a percentage which is no longer achieved for the elections of many mayors and even in certain areas for Parliament. Therefore, even certain mayors and Members of Parliament do not have adequate popular support. I also believe that it would be enough to work better and to be thorough in the face of the legislative proposals, discussing them quickly and surely; for example, this measure staggers all the various stages of the work. Not only that, but I also believe that, once a referendum was voted, this must be reflected: that of the public funding of the parties was immediately bypassed, while that of the privatisation of water was completely ignored. It is a serious fact for those who believe they are pursuing popular demands. Therefore, I am a little surprised that we want to change the Constitution. I believe that we want to change because we are not yet able to see it through and I have had a demonstration of it right here, on Friday morning, when in this House we approved the clearly unconstitutional omnibus (so I prefer to call it) feminicide law. I shall conclude by referring to the third paragraph of Article 138 which provides that: If the law was passed in the second vote by each of the Chambers by a two-thirds majority of its members, the referendum shall not take place. When that rule was written, the electoral law did not provide for majority prizes. This is another element that should cause us to desist from changing it so abruptly because, I believe, we are not worthy of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u105	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vacciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I have not prepared a speech on the changes to our Constitutional Charter which have been feared here; I believe that my colleagues have expressed and will express what are not only my own, but the positions of the entire 5 Star Movement and the citizens who feel represented by it. I have listened to the debate and I propose to this House the questions and considerations which this debate has raised. In one of the first speeches, a colleague, speaking to us instead of the Presidency (which we are used to now, because you obviously like us very much) said he was surprised, because we entered Parliament with the intention of changing everything, we opposed the amendment of the Charter, as, in short, beceri Conservatives! Who said that? We have come with the intention of changing and with the desire to restore the respect of the rules. And it is according to these rules, expressly provided for in Article 138 of the Constitutional Charter, that we can discuss whether Part II of the Constitution (underline: Part II of the Constitution, in order to avoid strange ideas for someone) needs adjustments, corrections and additions. Instead, here we are deciding to change the rules to change the rules, because the game, as was thought by our constituent Fathers, is obviously tight on you. And then I wonder: what they must have thought, the constituent Fathers when they decided to seal the Constitution with Article 138. Maybe they were so forward-thinking that they imagined the current situation, maybe Calamanderei when he thought of Presidentialism didn't imagine realizing it in this situation. A broad and transversal majority, so wide that it is terrified that the opposition could even afford to intervene and express its idea of reforms. So terrified that he wanted to compress it, until he canceled that opposition. I think about how this Constitution was born: from the encounter and clash people who had different ideas, had different political sensibilities, had different social situations and faced a desperate post-war scenario. And yet, one thing they didn't have: hurry. And they didn't have it because they were well aware that they were building the backbone of our nation and that this spine, if badly built, wouldn't have borne the weight of a country that was struggling to escape from a world war. On the other hand, you are slightly opposed to the proposal to reduce the time taken for debate and reflection and to reduce the powers of Members of Parliament. Attention to all Members, not just Members of the M5S Group! So I asked myself: why so much haste? You have sometimes given the answer in this House, at other times the President of the Republic: because the country asks us for reforms and cannot wait any longer. Colleagues, I often meet the citizens, as I imagine all of you. Last time for me was last Sunday. And when I meet the 40-year-old family father who tells me he's in the Social Security Fund with his unemployed wife and two young children, it will surprise you, but the first question he asks me is not: "So when you change this Constitution, that you can't do it anymore?" Instead, he asks me "when does the integration fund end?" "How do I feed my family?" And believe me, I find it difficult to answer: "Be quiet that now that the Constitution changes you will have no more problems!" [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The second point concerns a reflection that I have heard from more than one senator, from someone even in a contemptuous way. That is, what we call the most beautiful Constitution in the world is overrated and now it's old stuff. But colleagues, that's not what the Five Star Movement says. It is said by lawyers, constitutionalists and, surprise, not only Italians. Perhaps because they do not dwell on the mere written text, which even in its first 11 articles touches the poem. Maybe they're looking further. They look at her birth, at the way she was formed. They look at the blood, the tears that emerge behind each of those words. Then I say that perhaps it is true that our Constitution is not the most beautiful in the world, but - in my opinion - it is certainly unique and unparalleled. One consideration deserves this debate. As I said, I have listened to the Government's report, to the speeches of you colleagues, and I disagree with most of the conclusions to which the wise men want us to adhere. I disagree with what you colleagues in the majority support. But it's your idea, and it's only fair that it can collide with mine, with ours. However, I wonder why we should not have brought this debate back to its natural place; why not involve the citizens in a concrete way, not just the cold and teleguided questions of a questionnaire; why not let our ideas and our reasons come together, explain themselves and perhaps from a comparison even hard, tight, without discounts, come out a better product; because that is what our Constitutional Fathers have done. You too, albeit subtle, often recognize in the Commissions that some of our ideas are valid and convincing. Then you may vote against them, but we are used to that too. On the contrary, you have decided here to ignore and mortify 9 million people. Why? The following question also comes back: why force the hand to amend the Constitutional Charter with procedures derogating from the Charter itself? He said one person, whom you esteemed very much and who recently commemorated, that "thinking wrong is a sin, but often guessing." I think that, after all, everything has already been decided, because the so-called wise men have replaced the parliamentarians in their work, perhaps removing an unfortunate chestnut from the fire to a Parliament that the responsibility to decide no longer wants it. This is demonstrated by the fact that, in this semi-empty Chamber, you let us talk, because for you we are playing with words, nothing more. A final technical consideration. I took part in the online consultation of both questionnaires in a short and in-depth version, let us say. I don't know if you've read them or not. These are questions that lead - as I said before - to teleguided answers, choices that often limit themselves to "X", "X+1" or "Other" without allowing you to specify what "Other" is. Then I imagine that, who tomorrow will be able to evaluate these questionnaires, having to take them as the guide of their own choices, will choose "Other". In addition, I would certainly have expected a procedure to confirm the answers given, and in fact it was: once, twice, three times. To date, I have been able to confirm my answers no less than seven times. This isn't security. This is stalking! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But I didn't give up, because I thought every time: what if I don't confirm? I sincerely hope that everyone has had this constancy, but the question is: is everything random? Is it just computer inability? Or maybe those answers, even if you're prepacking, doesn't it really matter to anyone in the end? In fact, perhaps they are even an annoyance, a condolence for those in this country who still have the illogical claim to want to share the choices that will directly influence the future of their children. As I said before, those who think badly are sinful, but often guess. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with the quotation from a brief speech by a man whom I have always considered, beyond the political color, I hope that at least someone in this House will still remember: "Behind every article in the Constitutional Charter are hundreds of young people who died in the Resistance. So the Republic is our conquest and we have to defend it, no matter what it costs. But we must also defend it from corruption. Corruption is an enemy of the Republic. The corrupt must be struck without any extenuating, without any mercy. And to give them solidarity, for reasons of friendship or party, means to become accomplices to these corrupt. We must be worthy of the Italian people. He is not worthy of this people who performs acts of dishonesty and must be struck without any consideration. Woe if someone, out of friendship or party solidarity, should support these corrupt and defend them. In this case, party friendship becomes complicity and omerty. The ban must be given to these dishonests and to these corrupts who offend the Italian people. They offend the millions and millions of Italians who, in order to live honestly, impose serious sacrifices on themselves and their families. So the law is relentless, inflexible against the protagonists of these scandals, which give a truly degrading example to the Italian people. That's Sandro Pertini's words. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u107	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u108	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Quagliariello for being here despite the obvious indisposition. Those who have good memory remember that the past legislature was born as a constituent, in the name of mutual legitimacy, and we saw how it ended. It ended without producing any reform, just like the Bicamerale D'Alema, as the Commission presided over by Nilde Iotti and as the one entrusted, even before, to the liberal Aldo Bozzi. The fact that we are discussing institutional reforms together today is therefore already a good thing in itself. First of all because it means that the Constitution is no longer an untouchable totem, as well as the ultimate garrison of democratic freedoms, as, on the other hand, a current of thought continues to hold. The truth must be said here: if in the last legislature, for the umpteenth time a spider has not got out of the hole on reforms, it is also for a cultural, political and profoundly undemocratic attitude of certain elites, according to which the electoral majority acquired by the People of Freedom and the League did not have a full legitimacy because it considered an expression of a people who does not respond to that general interest established by a narrow circle of enlightened people who systematically use the politicized part of the judiciary as head of rams. It is no coincidence that a public prosecutor in Palermo even theorized the suspension of democracy to defend it from the will of the people. On the basis of this clearly unacceptable premise, any proposal to amend the current constitutional balances has become so unworkable. Yet the Italian Constitution must be revisited is also a fact of historical evidence, because it was born of a forced compromise, since Italy had to deal with the strongest Communist Party in the West, and it is not by chance that it has been discussed for some time whether it is right that the Italian Republic should remain founded on work, as its first article states, and not on freedom, like all other Western democracies. But the anti-reformer party remained strong, pretending not to understand that the Constitutions are not intangible, and not to know that the constituent Fathers themselves in their farsightedness had left the door open to future changes. However, the current constitutional structure, partly replaced by the material Constitution that actually led to the direct election of the Premier, has not strengthened its powers, just as it is necessary to be blind to not see that the perfect bicameralism is a ball at the foot of the country and that the reform of Title V of the Constitution, approved in 2001 by the center-left, must be completely revised. Regarding the powers of the Government, it seems to me very significant - as Senator Gotor has recalled - that celebrating the 60th anniversary of the Constitution, President Napolitano has made an almost literal reference to the agenda Perassi, with which the constituent Assembly pronounced itself for the adoption of the parliamentary system, to be disciplined, however, with devices suitable to protect the needs of stability of government action and to avoid degenerations of parliamentarism. This is to recall a weak point that was well present in the minds of the Constituents, namely the insufficient guarantee of the stability of government action, a luxury that no country can afford anymore and that was effectively addressed - it must be recognized - in the Violant draft of the last legislature remained then, unfortunately, dead letter. Therefore, on the one hand there is the awareness that our Constitutional Charter must be adapted to the times, at least in its second part; on the other hand, there is the resistance to all things that continue to mythize it. However, a constitution that has produced 56 governments in 60 years is clear that it must be changed, starting with the very part relating to the powers of the state and constitutional relations, because we can no longer afford an assembly democracy and not a ruler. It is useful to recall, in this regard, that the centre-right constitutional reform had done so in 2006. It was not perfect, but it was a step forward, as it contained the strengthening of the powers of the Premier, the reduction of parliamentarians and some corrective to the crazy reform of Title V which led to a perennial dispute between the State and the Regions. The left, however, had her rejected in the confirmation referendum. Experience has taught us, since the 1990s, that the reforms of the electoral system, although necessary, are not enough to achieve stable governing democracies. We must therefore start with the form of the State, as Mr Quagliariello rightly pointed out. The Committee of Experts has presented Parliament with a report which prefigures two hypotheses, preferably, for the first: that of a Parliamentary Government of the Prime Minister, with a President of the Republic as a guarantee, in which the powers of the Premier are strengthened, with the possibility of appointing and withdrawing Ministers and, above all, of dissolving the Chambers. Then, finally, the perfect bicameralism disappears. The other is that of semi-presidentialism to French, which was proposed by Berlusconi and Alfano and voted at first reading by the Senate in the last legislature, but to which the PD opposed pervicaciously. A form of government that in France ensured stability and governability, as was demonstrated last year, given that the direct election with the ballot between the first two candidates was the driving force behind the successive legislative elections and ensured the governability even in the presence of a strong crisis of the political system, with the anti-system forces that in the first round had achieved 40% of the votes. The polar stars of the reform must be two: a stronger executive and the maintenance of bipolarism, because any reform that favored a neocentric solution would be unacceptable, and on this point fortunately the Minister has said quite clearly that we do not go back. The reform of the second part of the Constitution is therefore the indispensable tool for modernising the institutions and to equip our country with the same tools that other Western democracies have for a long time, so as to address on a level playing field the great challenges that international competition imposes on us. The new electoral law will then have to be, and I stress then, a consequence and complementary to institutional reform. Of course, Minister, there is a gap that looks a lot like a black hole in the reform that we are about to discuss in Parliament. In fact, once again, the accounts are not made with attempts, often successful, to destabilize the executive power through the political use of justice that have dramatically characterized the last twenty years of Italian political life. There would be an urgent need for targeted constitutional changes, which also intervene on the imbalance of powers between the judiciary and politics in order to escape once and for all from the climate and culture of the years of Tangentopoli for which requests for authorization to proceed are transformed into piazza processes and the notices of guarantee are equivalent to as many preventive convictions. The frightened politics bowed to the politicized fringes of the judiciary and the modification of Article 68 of the Constitution has resulted in a very serious vulnus in our system of guarantees. The Berlusconi case is the smoking test, even if too many people in this House turn to the other side for political convenience. I listened yesterday, with dismay, to Senator Casson's claim that Berlusconi's decadence does not require a secret vote, because it would not be a vote on the person but a matter of "cleaning" - and I stress this term - that the Senate must do by expelling from itself a sort of virus. A thesis in my opinion aberrant, which shows how the Jacobine justiceism still alligni in the belly of the Italian left. On the other hand, it would be necessary to try to return to the Constitution, and it is remarkable that this requirement is not felt by those who have always stood up to clothe themselves with the intangibility of the Charter, because the original Article 68 was not a coercion of the principle of equality of citizens in the face of the law, but an implementation and a guarantee of Article 67 on the freedom of the parliamentary mandate. Under these conditions, however, it is clear that there is no political space to do so, even if PdL and PD are together with the government of the country. A real paradox, allow me. But be careful: today it was Berlusconi, yesterday it was Mastella's wife, tomorrow it will be someone else's turn, if the right balance between politics and the judicial order is not restored. That, just what the constituent Fathers had predicted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u109	Mr President, it is customary to say that the Republican Constitution is the result of a "compromise" between the political forces represented in the Assembly and in particular between the Catholic-inspired forces and the Communist and Socialist groups. This statement might surprise those who looked at all the political events of the period 1946-1947, with regard to the ordinary themes that in those years came to prominence and marked deep divisions between the same parties represented in the Assembly. The relations between the main political forces were significantly changed over the course of that two-year period. On the international political side, the context was certainly not the easiest: at the time when the Assembly exercised its functions, the Italian Government was engaged in the difficult, almost impossible, negotiation on the conditions of the Peace Treaty. Moreover, on the side of internal politics there were the first marked oppositions between the political forces that had supported the first governments after the armistice of 1943. During the period of activity of the constituent assembly, there will be four different governments, in fact, united by the figure of the President of the Council, in the person of Alcide De Gasperi. The real break-up is following De Gasperi's trip to the United States, followed by the decision to exclude communists and socialists from the government. The fracture is, at that time, insanable and drives leftist forces to a marked opposition, which also results in opposition to the ratification of the Peace Treaty. On this and on other issues of internal and international politics, the dialectic between government and opposition was lively, but the discussion on the draft Constitution left in the background the contingent political oppositions, which in fact did not condition it in a decisive way. Among the reasons for this phenomenon, which in our time could be considered an anomaly, a authoritative constitutionalist (Cheli) has identified the government's decision not to participate formally in the work of drafting the Constitution, without prejudice to the participation of De Gasperi and other Ministers, in a personal capacity; the secrecy of the work carried out by the Commission of the 75 and sub-committees, and above all by the drafting committee that prepared the text to be discussed in the Assembly; more importantly, the "holding" of the fundamental values on which the agreement had formed between the forces that led the Resistance to fascism: unity, Risorgimento tradition and, above all, antifascism. The elements mentioned above have therefore facilitated the attainment of an agreement, which has in any case taken longer than those anticipated (so that the duration of the functions of the Assembly has been extended for three times): the existence of such an agreement, combined with the opposition between the forces of government and those of opposition already recorded outside the Assembly, has led to the use of the term "compromise" as a formula that would sum up the underlying philosophy that animates the choices of the Constituents. On the subject of the organization of the State, there was a wide confluence on the supremacy of Parliament and on the configuration of the President of the Republic as a guarantee body; the parliamentaryism of the system found, moreover, compliance with the approval of an agenda (presented by the deputy Perassi) aimed at promoting the introduction of instruments of "rationalization" to prevent both a drift in the sense of assembly, and an excessive exaltation of the role of the Government and of the President of the Council. It is certain that, in the face of some problems on which it might have been impossible to reach an immediate agreement, the Constituents preferred to postpone the choices to a subsequent implementation discipline: it seems emblematic the reference to the Constitutional Court, where the examination of the few articles of the Constitution dedicated to it gives the impression of how uncertain the reflections of the Assembly characterized. In addition to these "recommendation" decisions, which we might consider strategic, or in any case necessary, there are many constitutional rules that need to be implemented by the ordinary legislator; I repeat: implemented by the ordinary legislator. This fact, in many respects, is consistent with the very nature of the constitutional text, intended to contain rules of principle, which give Parliament the choice of how, subsequently, to implement the principles expressed in the Charter. The doctrine mentioned at first pointed out that the Constitution was born "presumed" in the sense that it had appeared from the beginning little in harmony with the political balances of the time, but it had largely anticipated subsequent developments, thanks also to a formulation of constitutional provisions that favored an elastic interpretation of the same, as I will shortly point out. Certainly, with regard to some institutions, the time of implementation of the Constitution was very long: only in 1956 the Constitutional Court began to operate; only in 1958 the Supreme Council of the judiciary was established; only since 1970 the regional order was made operational. And again: for the approval of the referendum law it had to wait until 1970; the first law on the regulation of the strike - it seems incredible - dates back to 1990 (45 years of delay!) and in the same year a law on the system of local autonomy was passed for the first time. On the grounds of this slow implementation, it is easy to identify in the political circumstances the common denominator of all the implementing choices, insofar as the implementation of this or that institute was accelerated or delayed depending on the conveniences of the majority political forces and the greater or lesser pressure of the opposition forces. I mentioned earlier the peculiar characteristic of constitutional norms, which helped to strengthen the current situation of the Constitution and encouraged its resistance to changes in the historical, political, social and economic context. In at least one case, of extraordinary importance for the impact it has had on the system of sources, and therefore on our legal system, it seems that it can be said that the Constitution has undergone an implicit transformation, even if it is not the subject - until 2001 - of a constitutional revision intervention according to the forms provided for in Article 138. The concept of "constitutional transformation" has been developed by American scholar Bruce Ackerman - to be then taken up by our doctrine and adapted to our order - and moves from the consideration for which, at some moments in republican history, the interpretation of constitutional norms has undergone a radical change, and however endorsed by the Supreme Court: just think, for example, of the legislation wanted by Roosevelt in the New Deal, clearly oriented to an increase of the powers of the federal state in the management of the economy, to the detriment of the powers of the Member States and sometimes in open contrast with the principles of the free market, until then proclaimed and protected with particular emphasis by the Supreme Court. Is such a phenomenon also found in our constitutional system? The answer seems to be yes, at least if one analyses the problem of the integration between the Italian legal system and the Community legal system. Those who sought in the text of the Constitution before 2001 an explicit reference to the European Union, or simply to Community sources, would inevitably have been disappointed: the constituent Assembly had acted at a time when European integration seemed above all a long-term wish, while accession to the United Nations was more concrete and imminent. However, I believe that no one can doubt the importance that Community rules have taken on board in our legal system, not since 2001, but at least for a few decades. Indeed, it can be argued that entire sectors are now almost exclusively governed by Community rules, but this can already be said for several years. I could safely go on, in the ten minutes I have left, with these very well-educated and brilliant speeches, which, of course, I did not write, but a teacher of constitutional law. However, since we are very close, I believe that I can speak in a much more pragmatic way, starting from the fact that most of the laws are now being written in Brussels. In this respect, I would like to give the Italians first information that every day there are 1,500 financial lobbyists in Brussels who go near the various offices and departments to push the legislation in such a way that it corresponds to the wishes of the banks. As you know, the lobbyist's job in Brussels is absolutely regulated and registered, in order to do so it is necessary to register, specifying who are stakeholders. Here we are starting from the assumption that we are in democracy, but I think we are making a huge mistake, if we think that Parliament is the place where laws are made. We are not, in fact, under the regime of democracy, but of "denarocracy." There is no country in the world where democratic principles are fully implemented. From what world is the money ruler world. But then, do we decide or do we decide the big finance? After the financial crisis of 2008, the European Union itself ordered a Commission - specifically a Directorate-General - to carry out an analysis to understand what had happened and what had been the causes of that collapse. The Commission has written a report, available on the Internet, in which it makes it clear that the legislative function has been delegated to private business officials. A very elegant diction to say that the laws write directly to you by the officials of the banks and the insurances. We are here discussing how to amend a Constitution, because we think we are in democracy, but in reality, as I have already said, much of our way of acting is determined in Brussels, where regulations and directives are written by bank and insurance officials. Then I am very happy that we are in four cats to hear it, because of course these are news that must remain between four cats, it is news that must not be written. We continue to think that Parliament is the place where we decide on the destinies of Italy. But Parliament is not the seat of Italy's destinies. Decisions are made outside these classrooms. In fact, I am in this Chamber as little as possible; I stay in the office and call to the right and to the left, because the agreements are taken out of here. The agreements are made between the trade associations, between the producers' associations, between the various lobbies, which rule here but are out of here. Therefore, the 5 Star Movement will continue to be present in the Chamber. As you can all see, however, even when the talk gets uninteresting we are always a relative majority. To the 5 Star Movement goes the great merit, which perhaps you have not yet understood, of being deeply rooted among the population. We are constantly meeting the basis of the company, whether employees are, above all, the engine of the country or - as you all know - the very small enterprises, the craftsmen. We have been meeting daily for months with the craftsmen, who are those who keep Italy standing. You may not even understand that you can make all the laws you want, but if you don't give them the chance to work, the reform will be done soon, in the sense that there will be no more money to pay anything and then everything will fall down. About raising VAT from 21 to 22% any craftsman with fifth grade asks me who is the politician who made this silly sound, when we all know that tax revenue will decrease. The goal was to raise it, but the opposite will actually happen, as already demonstrated by the previous transition from 20 to 21 percent. So this decision wasn't even a jump in the dark. I repeat, we know very well that tax revenues will decrease. So the reflection that I do, in a few intimates, is that we don't count anything in here. We don't count anything in here. We can have all the jackets and ties of this world, we can go around the corridors with a very diplomatic and very professional attitude, but the decisions, even those concerning the economy and finance, are taken out of here. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Recalls of the President]] But I still have five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u110	I referred to Rule 90, which states that the speaker must keep to the subject on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u111	GIROTTO (M5S). It seems to me that I am talking about the subject on the agenda, namely the Constitution, which is our main legal source. It is paradoxical that the Constitution is not explained in schools, how the hours of civic education have been eliminated. I personally have graduated in law for "legitimate defense" and I find it absurd that small and very small craft activities need the collaboration of seven professionals, seven consultants, among accountants, tax collectors, experts in pay bags and others, to go ahead. This is a way to choke the economy. The Constitution states that the Italian Republic is founded on work, but here the work is constantly losing it. We also delegated our sovereignty to Brussels without any counterpart: you signed in the last parliamentary term very quickly, I dare say rapacious, the ESM, the State-saving Fund, and in return we have nothing. You have therefore betrayed the Constitution, because it states that equal treatment is necessary. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In this case we are simply subjects of a European Union that has a better tax regime than ours, a different labour cost than ours, a lower energy cost than ours and we are becoming a colony for the richest countries. Greece has preceded us but, alas, I think not for long, because we are on this path. I think you betray the Constitution whenever you talk about privatising those assets that are owned by all Italians. One cannot think of continuing to privatise after having already privatised fundamental assets like Telecom, which was owned by all Italians and was literally sold out. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Girotto, I'll call you back for the second time. GIROTTO (M5S). Thank you, President. Unfortunately, I studied law working, so I don't remember much and of course, as you well understand, I am adapting. I am adapting to this world, which sees you as protagonists from a legislative point of view but not of real life, practical. I invite everyone to start taking the bus again, the tram, and to talk to the normal people who are out of here, who, if you go to tell them that we are wasting time to "change the rules to modify the Constitution," will certainly cover you with invectives, because at this time Italy needs hundreds of things, it needs work above all, and the reform of the Constitution is the last thing we need. The first thing I promised myself to say was this: we do not need reforms of the Constitution, we need ethics, we need honesty. We can carry out any kind of reform, but if there is no ethics and honesty the strong powers will continue to override and any reform of the Constitution will have served no purpose. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u112	Colleagues, I have requests for the reversal of intervention shifts, but I cannot accept that a senator should first delay, then advance and now return to the track. That's the last change I accept, I'm sorry. Senator Martelli now has the power to intervene, but he is at the third change. I understand that some Members are not present.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u114	For what, Senator Santangelo? SANTANGELO (M5S). The order of business, Mr President. Some reversals of the speeches are taking place because at the moment there are committees convened, so colleagues who had signed up to speak are absent. This is not a whim, but a need. I therefore ask you to have the right elasticity to bear some small replacement. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There's Senator Martelli, who I see multipurpose: he moves back and forth.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u117	Mr Quegliariello, Minister for Constitutional Reforms. Mr President, excuse me, I would like to paraphrase Troisi, who said: I'm just reading, and you're a lot of people writing. I am only listening in this House and you are a lot of people talking, so, for physiological reasons, I would ask for a three-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u120	SIMONI (M5S). Mr President, I asked for three minutes. My speech is scheduled at 3 a.m. and I did not live in Rome. I asked for three minutes from colleagues who are missing, and you...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u121	No, Senator, it's not like that. We accepted 50 entries to speak after the general discussion had already begun, when, as a rule, registrations should be submitted 24 hours earlier. They were all welcomed. I'm willing to let everyone speak, even at 3 o'clock at night, but according to the order already established. SIMONI (M5S). It's three minutes. I don't ask for more. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can't. By the way, there's no government right now. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 4.20 p.m. and resumed at 4.30 p.m.) Let's resume our work. He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u122	Madam President, I would like to make one premise: yesterday the commemoration of Umberto Carpi was held, which everyone in this House seemed to know. And I felt a little weird because I've never heard of him. Then I realized that Professor Carpi had been a senator, so I wondered if it wasn't just the senators that were commemorating here. Why do I say that? For two reasons related to the subject of the debate. For example, on April 14 there was no commemoration for that none of Abraham Lincoln, who was killed on April 14, 1865 at the Ford's Theatre. And Abraham Lincoln only had slavery abolished in the United States. I spoke of Senator Carpi because yesterday President Grasso pointed out how Carpi had spent himself in defense of the Constitution, and here they applauded everyone, both present and absent. They applauded, but what applause was that? It was a hypocritical applause, because first we applaud one who defends the Constitution and then, when we are here, what do we do? We try to tear her apart; indeed, we also work hard to do so. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This seems contradictory to me, but I see that only we are of the opinion that it is contradictory. Perhaps we should understand the meaning of that term. Then, I heard people who praised the report presented by Minister Quagliariello. Then, I had the doubt that there were two relationships in circulation: one for the use of some and the other for our use because at a reading not too much in depth I allowed myself to emphasize the dubious parts, lacking in explanation or lack of demonstration, as was done when going to university. At one point, I realized that I was emphasizing everything. When you begin to emphasize every word in a written text it means that that text is not very good. However, let us go into the substance and begin to look at and discuss together the points that actually present problems. I quote from your speech yesterday, Minister: "The Government" - the Government, attention! - has set up a Commission of Experts on Constitutional Reforms, with the aim of fully but rapidly investigating the issues related to the reform of Titles I, II, Part II of the Constitution and the related reform of the electoral law; I cannot understand what connection there can be, in the sense that the electoral law is used to form the parliamentary majority in this system. It is then up to the Government to be formed from this majority. So there's no connection and it's not even proven. It simply affirms the existence of a connection, and the affirmation becomes self-demonstrative. The very fact that it was the Government that set up a Commission and that it was not made up of Members of Parliament, except representatives of the Commissions, tells us what respect the Government has of Parliament. Further on, we will continue to reaffirm Parliament's respect, but only in words; in fact, this respect will always be denied because when we take external experts, it is believed that in Parliament, with more than 1,000 people, there are no 40 people able to propose a report. We enter into the substance of this report, which - it has been said - is something that should facilitate Parliament in the first place, which is responsible for implementing the reforms. To be a report that facilitates, I would say that the facilitation is remarkable being written in six chapters, in the sense that it seems more like a ready result. As if to say, when the Committee is set up of 20 plus 20, which will be the Parliamentary Committee, it will have some sort of work ready to start: we have outsourced the task of changing the Constitution. This is an interesting aspect. Let's move on because there are a mess of underscores (sorry the word). She says: In order to counter those temptations to constitutional conservatism and modelism that for years have paralysed any attempt to reform (...). It is not really a question of paralysing attempts at reform, because in fact attempts at reform have been made. Some of us have already remembered that many articles have been modified, from 1960 onwards (the last reform of the Berlusconi government). Rather, it happens that very often, the times that the citizen is called to say if he really wants to change the Constitution answers: no thanks, it's okay, it doesn't care about the goods. However, despite this, you insist on wanting to change it because you give the Constitution so many faults that are not of the Constitution: you hide behind the Constitution to mask your mistakes, your inability, which I go to list on time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You, Minister, said that the country's difficulties are not alien to the weakness of our institutions, conceived at a very different historical stage from the current one. No wonder it was very different: it was after the war. But it was not a better phase; it was worse: there had just been a world war, with the consequent default, because the debts were not recognized, and we were in misery. So, that was a worse situation: it was an emergency situation. So let's not say this is worse than that. As usual, you try to cause panic and then paralyze people and then force them to accept anything. This trick doesn't attack; but, evidently, old makeup makes good broth (actually the proverb was another, but it's fine anyway). Again, he said, Minister: "Unlike the other major democracies of the West, which have long been undergoing incisive reform processes." Which ones? I do not understand that constitutional reforms are being made in the United Kingdom and not even in the United States, Spain, France and Germany; perhaps they are being carried out in Greece, but neither, because in Greece they simply had to hold elections a second time because, after the first, there was no majority. But someone also thought of making an electoral law on the Greek model: it was one of the proposals, in the sense of governability, as was obviously said. Only a few lines later it is said that our country has been devoid of instruments up to the decisions to be taken in an increasingly competitive global context. These are economic considerations. This seems to be pulled out of the report of large business banks, such as Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs or JP Morgan. A few months ago, however, they casually said that the Constitutions of South Europe, which are rigid and anti-fascist, are not good and should be changed. Now we are trying to change them: it is always random! First one thing was said and then it was done and the same motivation was invoked. As Conan Doyle had Sherlock Holmes say, a suspect is a suspect, two suspects are suspects and three suspects are evidence. Just change the page and there are still some critical issues. Here we are talking about a critical issue in the fact that we are in a multi-level system of government between the European Union, the State and territorial autonomy, which is much more complex and articulated than in the past. This system, therefore, needs to be carefully calibrated in order to safeguard the framework of the fundamental values and principles of the Constitution of 1947. Well, if we want to safeguard it, I would like to know whether by including a budgetary constraint, by adhering to clearly non-constitutional international treaties (such as the Six Pack and the Two Packs and the European Stability Mechanism), are we safeguarding the Constitution? Perhaps in this case too we must carefully consider the word "safeguarding"; my vocabulary must be updated, and not only my vocabulary because it is not "safeguarding," but it is "scarding" itself. These are words that always start with the letter "s" but they are different. A little further on, it says that on these basic premises that make the issue of reforms no longer elusive, the Commission has deepened the reasons underlying the fragility of our system, and we are moving forward. In fact, it should not be removed and it should be said: "On these basic premises that make the issue of reforms eludible (...)": i.e., these reforms should not be done, given the premise. The premise is written only five lines before. Therefore, the Commission, always because it wanted to facilitate, has even deepened all these issues, finding in the inability to express in the long term a stable political direction and rooted in the consensus of the social body one of the most important problems of criticality. In essence, the problem is that, at the time of the elections, a stable majority cannot be created. But it is not the Constitution's fault that the people who have the most choices divide between them. At best you could say - and indeed you say so - that it is the fault of the related electoral law (for this reason you make the connection). We have come back to the point that we have to make an electoral law cut out so that only one wins: let's say so! In fact, if we're gonna do something like that, we're gonna stand around the table and then we're gonna see who wins. Everyone thinks that they change the electoral law by believing that they win, instead of asking themselves the problem of making an electoral law that is as fair as possible: this is the purpose of an electoral law. It must represent the electorate's intentions fairly and correctly without distortion. On this, which is a mathematical subject, there are fine treaties and fine paradoxical examples that show how one can distort the use of an electoral law. Since later there are very strange elucubrations and elaborations of electoral laws, I say to you that the electoral law that best reflects the electoral voting intentions is the proportional one without barriers and without majority prizes. It is an electoral law that has worked well for over 30 years. Then more decision-making electoral law attempts were made, with the result that it did not improve, but the system got worse. So the more you try to make an electoral law that goes in the sense of creating a majority that commands and not that governments - it's a non-subtle distinction - and less successful in this effect. Paradoxically it was better before when there were five parties. All in all, even this lack of decision-making, which is constantly indicated in all these nine pages, is not the fault of the Constitution. Who decides, in fact? The Executive: it's called the Executive, the Government. If the government is not able to decide, it must choose between two things: decide or go home! If you can't do what you're in the government for, make room for someone else who can. It is not the fault of the electoral law if you are unable to decide; it is not the fault of the Constitution either. It's because you're trying to put mixed interests together. After all, if someone stays here and someone else sits there, there will be a reason; otherwise everyone would be mixed up, and that would be okay. A little further (I am sorry, but it is all an emphasis) it is stated that "the parties without which - it should be remembered - "a democratic system is not even conceivable (...)". I stress that we in the 5 Star Movement are not a party, yet we are very democratic. So, we are proof that this is wrong. We are here as living proof that a democratic system is conceivable without traditional parties. At least it should be remembered that we represent 9 million citizens, 25% of the electorate, and so we are not really that small. Further on, it goes on to say that the crisis of the parties as irreplaceable instruments - which is false - is through which the citizens contribute to determining national policy has reverberated directly on the powers of the Parliament and the Government, thereby jeopardising the proper functioning of the European Union (...)............................................................................................................................. It seemed to me that it was the Constitution that you wanted to change. But you are saying that there is a problem; that is, the crisis of parties caused by the fact that citizens are not able to vote. If they voted better, there would be no party crisis. But there is a party crisis precisely because the citizens are voting well, not bad! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is reiterated later that the crisis situation of the parties would require an incisive intervention of reform of the institutions. This is not the case: the crisis of the parties would require an incisive intervention of party reform. You should question yourself and ask yourself why things are bad, why people do not vote for you, not blame the Constitution and decide to make an electoral law that cuts those who do not vote for you. That's logical. It doesn't take a genius. Just read a text and understand what you are saying. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is also stated that the average duration of governments in the last twenty years is 19 months, but their ability to realize is even less than that which was recorded in the past (what I have already anticipated). But whose fault is it? I said it before: it is the Government (it is the Government that must realize), or even its majority, that it is not able to give the right stimulus to the Government, but perhaps because the Government wants to do everything by itself. Government initiative laws are over 70 percent. Ever since we were here in the Senate, draft legislation of parliamentary initiative has not been seen in this House. We have seen government initiatives, which always take precedence, and this was an urgent decision. Consequently, do not tell us that it is the Constitution's fault that this is happening. And if 70% of the proposals are of government's own initiative and the government is not able to decide, what would be the solution? Certainly not changing the Constitution, or (as this is what we are talking about) Article 138, which is the only way to change the Constitution. I want to make an inscription: let's say that you could do this and make any constitutional change easier, and let's say that in the next electoral round you don't win but we get more consensus. You would have given into the hands of someone who doesn't really like to be in here all the keys, all the launch codes, so to speak, using another kind of jargon. We would have the opportunity to use the Constitution that you have kindly allowed us to change much more easily to do everything that you do not want to do now, to use all the instruments of direct democracy: the proposed referendum without quorum (to name one), the unconstitutional electoral law. But should you strategically give us all the keys? I say no, but everyone is free to decide their own destiny. It is also said that reforms also serve to promote a process of strengthening and regeneration of parties. By changing the Constitution? No (I repeat): it is the parties that must change, and they must do so because they have realized (or should have realized) that things do not work. Later we read that you are convinced that bipolarism, and with it the alternation of government between the various political groups, is not only an irreversible element acquired in our political culture, but also a factor of transparency and democracy of the system. We here are proof that there is no bipolarism, if we mean by pole a strong aggregate of electoral representation. Then there are at least three. As a result one is too much? Do we just need two? This is a purely textual consideration. A little further on, it is said that the founding values of our community are not in question: but what are the founding values that we are talking about? When you introduce coercions such as the TAV, or create a State in the State like Ilva (because you have created an enclave in which certain laws do not apply) you do not do so in the name of the community or community. When you introduce the Six Packs or the Two Packs, all constraints that force us to certain budget maneuvers whenever certain parameters do not fall under the agreements of these treaties, you are not making the interest of the community, because the community is strangling it. So the question remains the same: which community are we talking about? And above all: what does the Constitution have to do with it? You need a path that restores strength and authority to the political representation; a path that, without affecting the alternation between different lines to the guide, facilitates the comparison on what needs to be done in the interest of the country. This would be part of the normal parliamentary debate. In theory, we are 315 senators here - we are not - for this very reason, to make the debate and the parliamentary debate. There is no constitutional change of such magnitude to encourage this debate, but to disprove it, and here too it is clear that there is no letter. She then says: The Commission's final report is divided into 6 chapters. So, other than a facilitation: this report contains everything. There are four main areas of constitutional reform, the implementation of which was unanimously considered necessary by about ten people, such as the strengthening of Parliament. Excuse me, Minister, but it is said that we must focus on presidentialism and then that we must strengthen Parliament: but in what sense? The strengthening of Parliament is moving the centre of legislative action towards Parliament through its Commissions. It is better for the laws to be made sector-specifically by the Commissions or for the Government to come here with a meatloaf that tells us to take. Then it is normal that everyone jumps on it and that everyone puts their own ingredient, and eventually even worse measures come out. We are talking here about a streamlined system of relations between Parliament and the Government. Rationalization is precisely about the division of tasks, the specificities. Each Commission legislates, perhaps having an address on what is within its competence. I do not see the strengthening of Parliament and I am not the only one who does not see it either. "The Commission" - I read from yesterday's speech by Mr Quagliariello - was unanimously in favour of overcoming the current equal and symmetrical bicameralism, which (...) represents a powerful factor in slowing down the decision-making processes and, often, also destabilising the form of government". And thank goodness! I remember that it is also Parliament's power to distrust the Government, and if we remove the possibility of destabilising, then it would mean that we could do nothing to tell the Government that it is doing wrong, that it must go away or change. We can't do this anymore. Why isn't bicameralism equal and symmetrical? You say: for duplication of tasks. True, in part there is a duplication of tasks, but you yourself have seen and said how the laws, in the transition from one House to another, have often seen improvements. This bicameralism is not so negative. In fact, you say monocameralism is widespread. It's not at all. At least try to develop better relationships. I will stop at this point because the time available to me is over. I just add that I came to page 5, and that 9 are the pages of the report. So, to do an examination, it took another 20 minutes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u123	On behalf of the entire Assembly, I greet the students of the State Science and Language Lyceum "Enrico Medi" in Battipaglia, in the province of Salerno. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u124	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u125	Madam President, Senators and Senators, I am obliged to make a statement to the Minister, whom I greet. The remarks we made in the morning were absolutely not intended to intervene on his condition, let alone his health. In fact, in this respect we have shown the most complete willingness to reorganize the work of this House at any time of day and night, any day of the week. We must, in fact, be serious to each other and not exploit personal aspects. You have to have great respect. We come to a debate, that of today, in the Senate Chamber, in the light of great events that have taken place in our country. Many have recalled the manifestation that has crossed the streets of our city no later on Saturday; a great manifestation that has highlighted an inescapable point that, in the interventions of the majority and in the same related work, we tend instead to misunderstanding: the many ordinary citizens, workers, and constitutionalists, have clearly said that it must not be exploited, there must be no conservatism, blocking and unwillingness to change, especially to make the Constitution more timely and feasible, that is, our founding elements. However, there is something crooked and contradictory that does not convince. Let me remind you of the fundamental rights of our Charter: the dignity of work, the civil rights for all, the inviolable rights of humanity, without any distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions and personal conditions. The fundamental principle of the Constitution where it is said, precisely, that it is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles and that it is up to us in the first place to do so: it is the task of the legislator. If we all agree on these rights, if we absolutely agree to defend them, but above all to implement them, why do we proceed in these ways, rather than in a reasonable way, not to use another term "ground land" instead of "ground land"? Why don't you start from the common feeling and from the sharing and, with a crystal clear path, you put it on white and proceed, if there is a common strong and shared denominator on some aspects? An example of all: it is said that the current electoral system, the infamous "porcellum" must be eliminated. Right. I don't hear anyone defending him, and yet you don't proceed in the way that would be natural. And what's the natural way? Well, not seventy or fifty years ago, but a few months ago a movement made up of ordinary citizens and constitutionalists did not just say or do demonstrations against the current electoral law. They delivered a million and a half signatures that were collected in a month: real signatures, at the bottom, that were delivered. It is not like on the occasion of the demonstrations, where everyone says different numbers, that never coincide with those of the police station and that are therefore questionable. No, we are talking about one and a half million women and men who have said simple things, waiting for the current electoral law to be declared unconstitutional. Then take this step. Everybody okay? Yeah, we all agree. But let's see the end he's done. Then there is much hypocrisy and it is not true that we listen. Maybe someone hears, but listening is something else. You may ask yourself: are these women and men the only custodians of the solution and of the right? Of course not! But we begin to hear what they have to say, to correct and to improve. I believe that this should have been the path that the legislator should have followed, with a healthy autonomy and responsibility, starting not only to make the questionnaires that were remembered, but to hear the reasons, absolutely questionable, of those who for these reasons brought a comfort of one and a half million Italian citizens and citizens. This could have been a starting ground. On the contrary, there are various systems: the Hispanic, Hungarian proposals, some of this and some of that, passages to France. Good, because otherwise if you take other directions, you risk going to experiences from Central African Republic of the former bloodthirsty dictator Bokassa. But this is Italy, with its tradition not only of culture in general, but also of institutions, of democracy second only to the tortured Greece. It is not a nationalist attitude mine, but from whom must we use it to understand what it takes to bring in harmony and harmony the orientation of the citizens, the electoral system and the ability that politics then translates all this into concrete facts? Let's forget the attitudes of National Geographic. I believe that one of the most critical points of this enormous and revolting majority, which may wish to change our Constitution with more than two thirds of the Members of Parliament in both branches of Parliament and to snatch at the citizens, that sovereign people who exercise this sovereignty in the forms and limits provided for in our own Constitution in Article 1, is that you are changing the forms and narrowing the limits without having a compass, a strong common feeling, albeit with differences, with perhaps different sensibilities, but without even the cement of the common feeling. Contrary to the constituents of 1948, it only unites you with breaking rules and contents that do not allow you to make permanent that tragic theater that only a few days ago was represented in this House, with shameful accusations in the majority, threats to the highest organs of the State that we, the opposition force, would not even dream of thinking; with evidently tactical rethinkings, at 180 degrees, except then be all, but just all reproposed within a handful of hours, restarting a ridicule, how dangerous for the state of suffering of our people, monstrous "Game of the Goose" where every now and then we start again from the way or someone goes to prison and stops a few laps, but so much, the dice are re-launched. Intrusive, decadent former Presidents of the Council and, I read from the newspapers, soon even former knights, throw all their lead on the wings of the necessary change. Dwarves on the shoulders of giants who, not paying and frustrated by this function, actively try to dough the legs of the giant himself, blindfold his eyes, except promptly indicate the limits and errors. What a strange country ours is! It is as if, after the disaster of Concord, we had come to the conclusion that the responsibilities were to be found in a structural failure of the ship, rather than in a malfunction, or in the absence of adequate technologies or safety systems. Everything, of course, will have to be verified and subjected to the most thorough analysis, but those who have brought it to break on the rocks must provide explanations, if they have any. Instead, no, the Italian political pilots are incapable, the parties no longer perform the function assigned to them by the Constitution, they are no longer up to it, but they do not change the pilots, the organizational forms and the instruments, but they change the ship-Constitution. We do not proceed with repairs that are clearly necessary and shared by all, but we entrust it to the outside of the essays. As long as the commanders remain confirmed in their place. Unconstitutional electoral laws are maintained that ensure that the people cannot change and choose freely. No, it is not strange the country: its ruling class is inadequate and the country is aware of it and, unfortunately, the same ruling class, which resists in all ways, regardless of the damage that is done to the entire system Italy and therefore becomes ruling class, no longer ruling. I have listened very carefully since the Minister's report and throughout the ensuing debate. We were few and we are still few, to be honest, however strong statements were made by the majority about the need for change, for example Title V, the elimination of the Provinces: "You won't prevent us, I've heard from representatives of the majority here. Some thundered him in this House. This is really curious. I say quietly, but it is an official communication, that we agree, no one wants to prevent it. But in the previous parliamentary term, with a similar super-majority (we were not even represented in Parliament), do you explain to us what prevented you from doing so? Perhaps a messy bill that only affected democracy and participation, but it did not in any way identify the tasks, responsibilities, resources that were to be allocated to the municipalities, the regions and the same state in place of the suppression of the provinces themselves and their competences; some nerves, such as school building for high schools. No way! They come together in a bizarre way, foreshadowing further bodies of first and second level on a very weak democratic profile, in some cases non-existent. There's a macro emergency, of course. In the country there is a great despair of dramatically impoverished classes: young people without hope for the future; the shame of feeling Italian in front of our behavior towards the tragedy of Lampedusa and unfortunately of the precedents and those that will follow. Why? Because you don't do anything. The Bossi-Fini is not urgent to change it, just a few tears. It doesn't matter if relatives don't know where to cry their dead anymore. Women and children inside coffins loaded with cranes and you don't even know where they took them. Where are you taking us? On this it is established that there is no emergency in our country. You're gonna set up some nice conventions, some doctoral surgery, and these tragedies will continue. Finally, modestly, I would like to appeal to each of us, regardless of the merits of the reforms that you propose, to allow the certainty of the involvement of the popular judgment. You must not fear it; indeed, all the more so if you feel right this would be the best argument to prove it. Don't put a straitjacket on the country and on yourselves. With accelerated procedures, strong numbers of exorbitant you have changed fundamental aspects, budgetary balances in the Constitution. But look what happens in the United States. I am not talking about Maoist China, but about the previous Obama, how the challenge is being fought, which the republican MPs are woefully imposing on that great country, with devastating, global and planetary effects. Great quotations have been made in these two days. I don't do that. I only remember that today the 70th anniversary of the raking that a few hundred meters from here, in the city of Rome, struck the Jewish community of Rome. A rake in which thousands of women, men, children and elders were deported to Germany and returned in a few. I don't quote, but it's a memory. Not in that rake, but after September 8, my father was also brought to Germany and came back alive and disappointed after the war but with a great treasure, in addition to the extraordinary one of life: this our democratic and anti-fascist Constitution, rigid but not by mistake. It takes time, in fact, for reflection. To remove any brick, with all good faith, which I absolutely do not question in each of the senators and parliamentarians, can cause the undoing of even a beautiful bow. And when it collapsed, a bow collapsed. We must therefore deepen, investigate, listen, not only hear; listen to us and know how to find robust synthesis, high compromises, that are worth and hold, more than the few hours of today's politics in our country. Senators and senators, Minister, said the philosopher Seneca: there is no favorable wind for the sailor who does not know where to go. I say this with concern for the country and inner sadness. Attention, it's your case. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u126	She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this place which should be a member of legislative democracy (which you call representative, but which we are trying to make absolutely direct and transparent, to and from all the citizens) you ask us to vote to distort our Constitutional Charter by a Committee of only 42 members appointed by the parties; by a Committee of Wise Men appointed above the popular expression, assigned specifically to shorten and distort the democratic norms (born of anti-fascistism, let us never forget) that our constituent Fathers have inserted to prevent any interference of part or of the parties, in contempt of the democratic conquests obtained by the sacrifice of many Italians who died for this. You ask us to hand over the founding charter of our Republic in the name of party interests, whoever it is or what color it is. We do not press the colors or the party strings; we are interested in the supreme good of the people you are trying to oppress and destroy. You treat us every day as poor climbers of politics; we are innocent, yes, in the face of the disaster that you have accomplished in these years, and pure, to the point of telling you that this umpteenth loss of values we do not accept. We are not so shortsighted that we do not see the desolate maneuvers to break down the last defenses that the sovereign citizen has in the protection of his own Charter. I believe it is necessary for those who listen to us (and there are many on the net and in the territory), that it is of fundamental importance to read the parts related to Article 138 of the Constitution, taking up again the speech of Senator Paolo Rossi of 14 November 1947, in the afternoon session, in the constituent assembly when the general discussion of Title VI continues with these words: "From the recognized need to assure a remarkable firmness of the Constitution, we have born the scheme that we have the honour to present to you: a scheme that manages to reconcile - we delude ourselves - the opposing demands of certainty and constancy of the constitutional law and adaptability to the time that pushes with its constant changing demands." The Constitution must not be a mass of granite that cannot be shaped and splintered; nor must it be a flexible joint that bends with every breath of wind. It must be, it should be, it would like to be a kind of flexible steel that you manage to remould tirelessly under the action of fire and under the action of the hammer of a strong and conscious worker! Let's see if the planned arrangements can approach this ideal. First of all, we wanted the revision initiative to be the responsibility of both the Government and each individual Member. We wanted the process of the two readings, with an interval of three months between one and the other, because something as serious as constitutional reform is not the product of momentary and demagogic impulses or, however, not well confirmed and meditated. We called for the absolute majority (half plus one of the members of the two Chambers) to avoid minority handstrokes, always deplorable, dangerous, very dangerous in the supreme constitutional matter. In addition to these guarantees, which seem to us to be very serious and substantial, we have introduced another one which can reassure everyone: the recourse to the very source of sovereignty, namely the popular referendum, when one fifth of the members of a House, five hundred thousand voters or five regional councils apply for it. With this also the rights of the minority, of a small minority, are effectively protected, while the appeal to the people remains open, even by a comparatively small part of the public opinion. There was still a need to protect legal certainty. This has been done by setting a time limit within which the appeal can be promoted: three months. Three months seem long enough for public opinion to set in motion, if necessary, and appear short enough not to leave too much of the constitutional rules undefined. The use of the referendum is excluded in one case only, when the law has been passed in both Chambers (with four votes, since the double-reading system is envisaged) by a majority of two thirds of the members, a majority that is really highly qualified. Is this rule appropriate? It seems to us, because it had regard to the concrete political reality, to the concrete political landscape of our country. We believe in the Constitution of the Italian Republic. Senator Rossi continues: "With the system that we propose, I do not really know if we can talk about a rigid Constitution (...) we could perhaps talk about a semi-rigid Constitution or rather about a Constitution guaranteed by a serious and severe mechanism of Constitutional revision." I end up expressing an opinion and a wish. We have the deepest respect for legality, but we have no fetishism for the intrinsic content of every single law, every single norm, even constitutional. For us of the 5 Star Movement it is essential that constitutional norms have changed when necessary, without conservative anchors and without faciloniarie, but also that they be formally, substantially and intrinsically respected as long as they are alive. Well, these are words that give a sense of belonging, brotherhood, solidarity and full defense to citizenship and popular will. The "people" is not a word written in the vocabulary. This is what he is writing to us and which you do not interpret because you are indifferent and co-responsibility. These are words that make you vibrate with pride. You here, now and now, in the haste you have to measure yourselves with those who hold you to the snare, you are asking us to abjure these words. You are asking the Italian people, whom we represent as mere spokesmen, to disintegrate them for partisan interests. You are asking, ignobly crushing every popular expression, to delete, or temporarily derogate from, this article. We of the Movement have entered these palaces of the Institution fully aware of the risks we were facing. We have also done this to safeguard the last bulwarks of our democracy in this beautiful country. We found the empty and cloudy box that you left us and that you now try to fill with 42 other members appointed from above, which we once again do not recognize and denounce. Inexperience, maybe. But complicity with all of you, no one excluded, never! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u128	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are discussing, the constitutional bill establishing a parliamentary committee for constitutional and electoral reforms, clearly represents an extraordinary procedure, a derogation from Article 138 of the Constitution. In a rigid Constitution like ours, the procedure for constitutional revision is in fact only the one provided for in the Constitution itself. A constitutional law either complies with Article 138 or is different: there is no tertium genus. Nor can it be objected that, this time, constitutional law would foresee that it would be subsequently passed by the people. If - as it is hoped - the procedure in place is not "constituent" (i.e. having a radically contrary purpose to the current constitutional order), this implies that the sovereignty of the people must also be exercised, in this regard, in the forms and within the limits of the Constitution. Therefore, the people will not be able, with the subsequent referendum vote, to eliminate the procedural vices that affect the constitutional law. On the other hand, the constitutional law under discussion does not aim to modify the constitutional revision process by allowing, for the future, scholars, instead of politicians (I would say unfortunately), to devise constitutional solutions, parliamentary committees to draft the text of constitutional laws and the people to always make their voice heard with mandatory referendums. Rather, the constitutional law under consideration provides for a derogation from Article 138. But a derogation that explains stable consequences for the future on the form of government, on the relationship between Parliament and government, on bicameralism, etc., what else is it, if not a surreptitious violation of the Constitution? Article 138 is that provision that has always guaranteed us against the blows of the majority of the moment, a perhaps fictitious majority, a deviant product of this unworthy electoral law. The President of the Constitutional Court himself argued that this Parliament was elected by a constitutionally flawed law. So I ask myself: what legitimacy does this Parliament have to take over the right to break down, even if only temporarily, one of the lintels of our system? Who guarantees us that derogation from Article 138 does not involve the constitutional upheavals from which our constituent Fathers wanted to shelter us? This Parliament? That is why the derogation from Article 138 is by no means merely a matter of procedure, but is substantial. The lack of political legitimacy, and in particular moral legitimacy, of this Parliament should have led its members to become more humble and consequently to merely intervene on what really needs to be done in the immediate future: a new electoral law, which would allow the election of a Parliament that could morally take responsibility for redesigning the constitutional architecture of our system. Not only is this right imposed on us, but it is claimed to do so by way of derogation from one of the most important provisions of the Constitution. The true Constituent, the only one we had, in the period 1946-1947, is far from the Fake Constituent, which we want to do now. A great work of constitutional literacy (there was a special ministry, run by Nenni, both with the Parri Government and with the De Gasperi Government), was added to the work of the Real Constitution. Daily broadcasts were broadcast on the radio, in which he was educated and informed. It was about involving as many people as possible in the draft Constitution. It is now a question of keeping it as hidden and as far away from public opinion as possible. It is also worth making a quick reference to the timing that this Parliamentary Committee on Reforms should follow: the draft Constitutional Law must be examined within 18 months of the entry into force of the draft Constitutional Law that we are examining and, within six months of the first sitting, the Committee will have to forward to the Presidents of the Chambers the drafts examined. Within three months of the date of transmission, each Chamber must complete the examination of the text and between the two deliberations there must be an interval not less than 45 days in place of the three months provided for in Article 138, while the need for approval by an absolute majority of the members of each Chamber is confirmed. This compression of the times, having given the Government a privileged amending power, the impossibility for individual parliamentarians to submend the proposals of the Government or of the Committee, the prohibition for parliamentarians in dissent with their Groups to submit their own amendments, the possibility of extending the revision to other articles of the Constitution where there is a connection with the Titles of Part II attributed to the competence of the Committee, the derogations provided for in the Regulations of the Chamber and Senate, the lack of attention to the publicity of the Committee's work: here, all this gives us the dimension of how there is a clear will to reduce the prerogatives of the individual parliamentarians and of the Parliament as a whole, mortifying its functions. I wonder how we Members can accept such humiliation. There are crucial issues at stake in our lives, not cold constitutional engineering operations, as we want to be led to believe. Work, equality, justice, everyone's rights, culture, health, legality and transparency: possible things in democracy when it expands, difficult or impossible when it shrinks. And on this point it should be emphasized that, if until recently the debate on constitutional reforms was divided into a dialectic between a government force and an opposition, now - thanks to the Government of the technicians first and to the broad understandings then - the opposition is practically excluded. And it is not just a detail, given how diligently the results of the 2006 referendums and the various attempts made by citizens to amend the electoral law were taken into account by this Parliament, whether they were laws of popular initiative or collecting signatures for referendum questions. It also seems useful to consider that the political forces that make up this strange majority demonstrate day after day that they have a profoundly different idea of the Constitution and the guarantees it contains. How can one think that within this Committee all differences will fade away in order to leave the pace to a conscious and reasoned discussion leading to good constitutional reform? It is quite predictable that the demeaning debate we are witnessing every day in this House on the few issues that really affect the interests of the parties will be repeated in the same way. Article 5 of the draft law fortunately allows a request for a confirmation referendum to be made even if the text is approved by a two-thirds majority. But this particular aspect cannot reassure us, at least until a serious involvement of the public is initiated in the debate that is taking place in these classrooms, strong of the awareness that these are not the issues on which the interest of the vast majority of citizens is concentrated. It is clear that the Constitution must and must be amended to respond to changes in a changing society, but it is equally clear that any change can only be resolved within the procedure provided for in the Constitution itself. We do not want to delay the reforms, we simply want everything to happen in the perimeter of the Constitution, insisting on the need to give voice to the citizens. We have a previous example that must make us think, the amendment of Article 81 on budgetary balance: we did not want to pay attention to those who suggested not to approve it by a two-thirds majority, so that citizens could express themselves. And maybe - but it's just a suggestion! - before you look for weird ways to change the Constitution, you could start by actually implementing it. So, first, to implement it; then to adapt it to changes, but certainly not to upset it and, above all, not to demolish it. The Charter can be changed, but with great caution and broad consensus. Having said that, Madam President, since we have made some confusion, I will read what Senator Ivana Simeoni has written for her, since I still have time. So what I'm going to read now is Senator Simeoni's speech. Dear Senators and Senators, in 1947 our constituent Fathers wrote the Constitution. They were heroes of war, partisans, but also characters so authoritative and of high moral fiber that they had put even the fascists in awe, defending the weak and mocking the regime at the risk of one's own life. Characters like, for example, Piero Calamandrei. Today we are in this House to discuss whether or not to change one of the fundamental mechanisms provided for in the Constitution: the constitutional revision procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u130	Senator Romani, I would just like to recall one thing: Senator Simeoni can also file her speech. He was very pleased that I... president. I'm just saying that I know you're filling your time with 20 minutes and I'm not interrupting. But I just wanted to remind you that you don't usually allow yourself to read another senator's speech. Please continue your speech, Senator Romani.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u131	Thank you, Madam President. But I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, are you sure that you are allowed to do so? With what authority does an elected Parliament with a law called "poor" allow itself to put hand to a written text with the blood and courage of our grandparents? Are you really sure you're doing the country's interests this way? By changing the rules with an act of force, raping the popular will that emerged from the last election? Those who wrote the Constitution had very clear the values for which it was worth fighting and dying. The horror of war and the death of loved ones had taught everyone very well what was really important. Do you have the same clarity as you are about to change the Constitution? It seems to me, and I do not think I am wrong, that the real problem with this policy is not the procedure by which laws are passed. The real problem is that the political forces are struggling all the time to try to destroy each other, constantly trying to find the best method of ripping off the opponent, putting the blame for their actions now on the opposition, now on Europe, now on the red robes. While the problems of the Italian people are constantly ignored, postponed, sometimes even mocked. The emblem of the failure of this unholy policy is the pathetic theater of the reform of electoral law, eternally postponed for momentary interest. The interest is to do it at the right time to rip off opponents and keep the chair, not to do it in a right way to ensure fair representation for the people. How can we trust the good intentions of a majority like this? In order to legitimise your reforms and to have a reputation for credibility, this Parliament has had a committee of "wise men" who are the holder of knowledge. Extending device to unload one's responsibility and mask one's ineptitude. And out of sixty million Italians, you couldn't even find forty that weren't investigated. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The umpteenth to our Constitution and to the memory of our constituent Fathers. I would never have thought, coming into this Parliament as a mere citizen, of finding such a degraded situation and such petty performances. History will recall the political class of the last twenty years as that of "sfascism," as the one that has reduced Italy from world power to economic and international laughingstock. Do we also want to be remembered as those who ruined the Constitution? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u132	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u133	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Quagliariello who, despite his poor health, is here with us. I will try to give him satisfaction because I want to take up the text of his report. In some respects, this report is an open text because, although I myself pointed out some of the concepts highlighted by my colleague Mr Martelli, I have to say that slightly different reflections were born in me, so I am grateful to her for having built a report that is also suitable for further study; on the other hand, repetita iuvant, then here are some colleagues who were not present before (and vice versa). The first aspect that I have also stressed is the fact that, compared to when it is said that the objective... was certainly not to prepare an organic proposal for reform, I have to say that excusatio non petita, accusatio manifesta. You yourself, in fact, at the time of the presentation of this report, issued a statement saying that the Government would make proposals for a reform of justice. I remember the debate we had in this House where we wanted to keep Title IV of the Committee's work out of the scope of competence, so now we are also moving forward with respect to what is said and not said in this first part. I do not want to retrace all the steps that my colleague has taken and I just use some points that I want to bring to your attention to show how the first and most serious aspect of what we are doing now is that, through a transformation, we are intervening on something that has nothing to do with the frame, but with the contents and with the people who are actually in this frame. The text states: "The weakness of our institutions, conceived at a very different historical stage from the current one, is not alien to the difficulties of the country, and you are progressively inadequate to cope effectively with the challenges arising from the changed world economic context, as well as those related to the process of European integration." I would therefore also like to take up what my colleague, Senator Chiti, has said (who is not there now), who is also President of the 14th Commission, to underline that the problem is not the institutions, it is not our Constitution that we have to change: it is the people who today interpret the parliamentary work that our Constitution entrusts us that they do not put themselves in a position to really work to face the challenges associated with the process of European integration. We know that there is an ascending stage in the formation of Community law, but it is ignored and not practiced. We know that since the Lisbon Treaty as parliamentarians we would have obligations and rights towards the European Parliament, and it is we who do not practice them. It is not, however, a problem of the Constitution; it is our problem. It is useless to hope that it will be the Senate of the future that will be interfaced with the European Union if we are not able to use the instruments we already have to interface properly, proactively and imperatively with the European Union, to which we have heard so many times in this House proclaims or of unconditional love or rejection; useless claims, since we are not able to use the instruments we have. Then we are inadequate, not the Constitution. In the same passage, shortly after the Minister, he uses another reference saying that "our country has found itself devoid of instruments up to the decisions to be taken in an increasingly competitive global context and in a European framework in which states, in addition to respecting the strict budgetary rules, are called to contribute to the definition of strategies for development and employment and to the implementation of public policies that have an increasing and pervasive impact on the lives of citizens and on the work of enterprises." I would like to stress that this is the exclusive monopoly of the Commission for months, for years, and this is being denounced in these classrooms. We have repeatedly heard complaints that all these choices, which should be the subject of a real debate and discussion, are actually submitted to us exclusively by means of government measures. Now everyone, individually, is ready to acknowledge the fact that it is in the Commissions that the debate really takes on the strength that my colleague, Senator Vacciano, recalled, and on which my colleague Mr Romani also insisted. All those reasons why, in any case, the debate on the Constitution and its possible transformations should also take place in those same forums and for the same reasons why there should also be a debate on strategies for development, employment and the implementation of public policies that have this increasing and pervasive impact on the lives of citizens. So, once again, the problem is not the Constitution as such, but how we misunderstand it and how we force what, instead, our Constitution tells us that we should do. Later it is said again that we must reform and it is explained why: "coming back in the inability to express in the long term a stable political direction and rooted in the consent of the social body one of the most important elements of criticality". Now, where could this consent be if there is no freedom to choose your candidate? Where's the wonder? It is obvious and natural that the problem, once again, is not a problem of the Constitution, but of an electoral law that has prevented it from giving specific indications about its candidate and, therefore, has derelict and removed the substance and the matter of the relationship between the representative and the person who elects it for the representation of their demands. Rightly, here we go on to say that, therefore, the problem is the crisis of the parties. And, once again, where does the party crisis come from? Always and in any case from the institutions; always and in any case from a Constitution that establishes how these institutions should behave, how they should live and what their purpose and structure should be. But it's not! This is a presumptuous statement, because the crisis of the parties is not determined by the ineffectiveness of the institutions, but by the ineffectiveness of the parties themselves. [[Applause from Senator Martelli.]] We are also here because there is a sidereal distance, which is perceived by the voters. However, we are representatives of that 25% of voters who, of course, have taken note of a sidereal distance between their own demands, their everyday lives and those who represented them. This should be the subject of self-criticism, considerations, and not a presumptuous search for other causes. I am a teacher and all this reminds me of what the students do when, when they do not get good results at school, they say that the fault is of the teacher, it is of the programs, it is of the principal, it is of the institution. This really seems to me to be the immature attitude of those who, failing to make considerations about themselves, failing to reach maturity in order to face a change, go to find in others the reason for their failure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then I come to face another aspect. The report also says, with regard to the deficit, that it is necessary to clear the field from the illusion of being able to remedy the serious deficits of decision-making capacity, stability and representativeness with yet another intervention on the electoral system alone, or relying on the exclusive spontaneous dynamics of political parties. Then there is the question of bipolarism. Now, I would also like to take up what Mr Gotor and Mr Palermo have said about what is happening in this House as a form of obstruction. I would like to invite you to take this thought. We are trying to bring to the attention the added value that can give an opposition that, unfortunately, is increasingly not considered. And here too I allow myself to refer to my professional activity. I try to explain to my students that democracy is not the existence of a majority that acts and governs. This is also due to the immaturity of those who interpret the majority, not only to an electoral law problem, to a problem of institutions: rather, I repeat, to a lack of maturity of those who interpret the majority. Listening to the minority is making decisions that are good for everyone, with respect, of course, to the difference in the representativeness of those who have a certain percentage compared to another. This is the sign of a democracy. To do the opposite, like what we see happening in this House, is not the sign of a democracy, but rather of a resistance to listening to others, and this too is not a problem of the institutions or the Constitution, but of the people and, perhaps, of the parties. As Senator Cervellini recalled, the signatures that have been collected are a sign. Here we have a "Senatus sine populo" (Senatus sine populo), and also this is not a problem of the Senatus as such, but it is a problem arising from the inability to relate to the people. The conclusions of the report refer to the consultation phase. However, rather than drawing experience from what is happening in the European Parliament, where a long, accurate and elaborate consultation phase is foreseen for the laws, here too, the consultation - as Mr Vacciano reminded us - is muddled and takes place in simplistic ways, so it is likely to be more like a fig leaf than a contribution from those whose signatures have been deposited. I do not want to bore my colleagues so much, but in recent months my reflection has also focused on something else. In fact, we have been hearing about reforms for months and, above all, the need to change the form. What I see, though, is that the substance is already deeply modified. It comes to mind then when I explain and tell my students what happened in 23 B.C., when Octavian began to pose the problem of linking the emptying of the Res publica - which he had already realized - with a new formal garment, which was to be attributed. It is at this point that my students ask me: "But how, the Senatus did not realize that it was actually the puppet of a profound transformation, which had already modified within the whole tradition of the Roman Public Res?." I answer no, first of all because, as we know, the Augustan historiographical has been cut off by the ability of Ottaviano to eliminate his detractors and all those who could think and urge a reflection on a problem of democracy and the inevitable passage that was taking place from the Res publica to the Principality. Then there is another reason. History teaches us that, when you live a historical moment, you hardly fully realize what you are experiencing, unless you are using the lenses of history and you are preparing to make a self-critical reflection on yourself. In this way we are faced with a semi-desert Senatus like today, which is indifferent, which does not see the problem that - in my opinion, but also in the opinion of other colleagues, and not only of the 5 Star Movement, because there have been many voices, even outside this House, that have been remembered during these two days of debate - considers instead as problems needs that many do not see. Perhaps I am witnessing a temporal hole in which I find myself living what I tell my pupils to have been lived by the senators who were around Octaviano and who did not realize that Octaviano was already Augustus, only that I do not see great Augustians on the horizon, at most I see some Caligula and perhaps some Nero. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Cervellini first recalled Seneca, who was a great interpreter of that moment, because Seneca was present, both as a politician and as a philosopher. And it is precisely Seneca - I want to remind you - to say at a certain point: "Vindica te tibi". I would like to say this: not the "Vindica te tibi" which leads to the end to withdraw and to move away from the challenge that this moment poses, but the "Vindica te tibi" which leads, instead, to being responsible, to giving a vow according to conscience and knowledge. To the limit, when you have to follow the indications of your own party, that the question of how this Committee is going to go ahead is whether there is a problem of the absence of a debate - as has been described by my colleagues - that the problem of so many citizens who ask questions and express their concern should be raised; and, even more so, that the problem of a Constitution which, in fact, has already been emptied of too many of its values has already remained a crust around us. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u134	He's enlisted to speak Senator Della Vedova. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u135	Minister, I too would like to thank you for the attention and dedication with which you are following this debate and this debate which, in my opinion, takes place in a climate in which misunderstanding, suspicion and, in many cases, caricature dominate. I believe that we have a duty to clarify and explain why we support this process of constitutional reform. I have done so since before I was a Member of Parliament and I continue to do so today, for example, in the name of the many rightly mentioned Mr Calamandrei, and this is a tribute that I am very pleased with. That is, they are among those who have always thought that he was right in the discussion that took place in the Constituent on the form of government and that it was a sin that was later defeated. Calamandrei was right when, in his presidential position in favour of a strong government, he said that this would be the best antidote to populist and demagogic dictatorships. Instead, a different thesis prevailed: coming out of a dramatic phase of dictatorship in the name of the people who erased democracy, he chose to water down the powers of the government. What we are facing today are the knots that have come to the comb in the decades when the external constraints, which had made Italian democracy stronger, have, for one part, failed and for the other, have changed drastically; I think, for example, of the European constraint. I believe that we are dealing with those knots that came to the comb and that, as Calamandrei said, had to be resolved immediately with another vision. I do not believe that having a position of reform of the Constitution means certainly having more title to honor the memory not only of the constituent Fathers, but also of those, repeatedly recalled in the course of today's debate, who even gave their lives to get to that Constitution. I do not believe - as my colleagues will allow me - that it is an additional title to ask for in the name of those values of freedom, of guarantee and of the rule of law, to adapt the Republican Constitution, but - I say this with respect to the many moralists - it is certainly no less a title to be Italian citizens who honor this Republic, this Constitution and the history from which they originated. The whole process of constitutional revision, which we are discussing today, is regarded by many of its enemies as a kind of tampering with democratic guarantees and not - as I think it is - of proper maintenance of constitutional rules relating to the form of government and, more generally, the functioning of political institutions. There are authoritative representatives of the world of culture, including legal, who identify in the Constitution exactly as it is - and as they think it must remain - an embankment to political and civil degradation and describe the reforms outlined in the final report of the Commission for Reforms as a real risk to the political freedom of the country. I don't necessarily mean that thinking about changing these rules is a panacea. I hear and hear a lot of criticism from my fellow Members that you don't understand who you don't want to assume your responsibilities and the responsibilities of your failures, so you argue that the rules need to be changed. On the other hand, I think it would be useful to address, even if only in a doubting key, the fact that precisely the degradation which, according to them (I am referring to the defenders without doubt of this Constitution) has not been circumscribed, and instead has prospered exactly in the framework of constitutional rules that we have had for decades, so not only with us, but with the Italians who have been chosen from time to time by the voters. With reference to the alleged violation of Article 138 of the Constitution, which is seen as an intolerable tampering, this important and respectable part of Italian public opinion has always appealed to each of us senators not to vote for this reform - as I, on the other hand, wish to vote - by qualified majority in order to submit it to a referendum. As the Minister knows, my personal position and my group's position was that basically we could proceed directly by maintaining Article 138 as it is and that perhaps with this passage we risked overloading, even procedurally, the constitutional reform we are preparing for and that I hope it is not overwhelmed by crises that have little to do with the debate we are holding today. But, as a practicing referendary over the decades, and I do not regret it, I am aware that, thanks to the amendment of Rule 138 which we will vote on next week, it will be possible to submit to popular referendum the constitutional revision text possibly approved with 90% of the Members in both Chambers. Therefore, to these gentlemen who ask us not to vote by a two-thirds majority on the amendment of Article 138 in order to submit it to a referendum, I would point out that they say something wrong to the Italians and make propaganda: in fact, thanks to the amendment that we will approve - and that, of course, if we did not approve with a two-thirds majority it would be dropped - it will be possible to call for a referendum on a constitutional amendment voted by 99% of Members. Therefore, what we are doing - and I think this is the most qualifying point, on the rest perhaps we could proceed on an ordinary basis - is precisely to introduce a safeguard clause for popular sovereignty in relation to the constitutional revision that we are discussing. This, I believe, is important and an element of clarity with regard to Italian citizens, if we want to maintain loyalty and seriousness among ourselves in the debate. It has been said that constitutional conservatism does not exist. I know, respect, sometimes I understand, several times I do not understand the reasons of those who claim that the Constitution, Part II, must be unchangeable; I note that the reasons for this constitutional conservatism respond culturally and politically to the same conservative reflection that concerns the other reforms that I think the country needs and that, as far as I am concerned personally, over the decades, I have tried to implement, for example, through the referendary instrument; reforms that, at some happier times, in my opinion, of the government of Italy, have been undertaken, but that are rejected exactly on the basis of that intellectual and cultural obstacle to the changes provided they are. I believe that in this debate we must - and at least we, as a Group of Citizens' Choice for Italy, do so - have in mind the words of the President of the Republic, Giorgio Napolitano, at the moment when we have him - certainly not all of us, but the vast majority of us - called, certainly to the honour, but also to the burden of a second mandate, about the need to get to the end of a constitutional review process. This is precisely in the conviction, which is opposed to that of many colleagues, that these mechanisms, born at that precise moment, with that precise goal of the post-war and post-fascism, that also - not only, but also - in the procedures of our democracy now there are the reasons for the difficulties of the country and more generally of the decision-making process, which become difficulties of the Italian citizens. It's a challenge. We have different opinions on this matter, we try not to caricature each other's positions. I believe that there are elements - we live it from within - mentioned in the paper of the essays. On this I believe that here too - he did it very well yesterday, with punctuality - the Minister must recall the historical truth - and I use the tiny ones - of what happened. Nobody outsourced the constitutional revision, no one contracted the reform proposals. We have asked 40 non-parliamentary personalities (for free, since this seems to be a central theme today) and that they will certainly not become parliamentarians in this parliamentary term (our country is also made and strong of its culture and of the personalities who express it) to make available to Parliament their systematized reflections; after that, there is no constraint to use those reflections and proposals. In the same way, we can discuss the public consultation; that is, if it could be done better (as all things could be done better). I give the government credit for having done it, the public consultation. So, I think we need to discuss this. We will then have the opportunity to debate the substance of the proposals that will be made in Parliament (at that point, the proposals of the wise men will be literature, useful for the real, constitutional discussion of the procedure that we have chosen to undertake by amending Article 138, which - I repeat - will allow us to call to referendum the constitutional changes in any case). I believe that this is being discussed and that this is the subject. We do not do the caricature, if we really care, with passion, the institutions of the Republic, that we find ourselves, with honor, I think, of everyone, to serve. I want to close, Minister, with a consideration of the electoral law. The discussion and the plans overlap. We have decided - rightly - to choose two living parallels on the reform of the electoral law: the way, which I continue to hope and wish for is the main way of an electoral law that accompanies a constitutional revision that of an electoral law that responds, instead, to the commitment that Parliament has already assumed in some way to a modification of the current electoral law to the current Constitution that allows to overcome the objections. I am referring to the objections which, even if they were not put forward at the time of constitutionality by the Council (I do not know what the Constitutional Court would say about this), are now spread even - I believe - among the majority of us. I think that we must be ambitious in this regard; that we must not - that is - prepare a text which has only a minimal and defensive intention to respond to some of the more macroscopic objections to which the current electoral law has met. I am referring to the ambition of drawing up an electoral law which, in our expectations, has a minor effect, but in the same direction in which we want to go with the constitutional revision: to give simplicity, immediacy and more strength to the institutional and government system, even to the existing Constitution. We have proposed an electoral system that combines plurinomial colleges and a double coalition or list shift. We can discuss this, but we think that should also be the objective of revising the electoral law. If we believe in the ambition that we have set ourselves for the constitutional revision, it would, in my opinion, sound wrong if, on the other hand, we could not be ambitious even in this "temporary" passage of the revision of the electoral law to the Constitution in force. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u136	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u137	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some comments by bringing the reasoning plan to another level. I have read carefully the new pages on which Mr Martelli, Mr Mussini and others who have spoken on the subject have been working. I have also examined some of the issues relating to Article 138 which, in my opinion, being the penultimate article of our Constitution, has been put to defend, and therefore to safeguard, all attempts at tampering with the Constitution that did not follow those iters and those procedures that the Constituents themselves had identified. And this is precisely in order to respect a very noble good, which is precisely our Constitution, which is not unchangeable, nor perpetual, but something that can be modified with extreme caution and that must be observed and evaluated with extreme humility, as someone with much more acumen than I myself, exactly Senator Tocci, said in the discussion carried out at first reading of the bill in question. I'd like to bring the plan of my reasoning to a pre-political level. I do so on the basis of those who have been able to reflect politically in these classrooms, in my opinion, very considerable: Aldo Moro. Moro, already an authoritative member of the Constitution and then of the Italian Parliament for several years, in 1948 was pleased that it had finally come to approve a system of rights and duties in which men of all currents - taken care of, of all currents - can meet, so wide is the vision of the world that inspires and understands the consideration of human needs that must be satisfied in social life. (...) But all the laws - Aldo Moro continued - are entrusted for their implementation to the social forces and to the moral conscience of the peoples, so that an orientation of solidarity and seriousness that is once given in a lucky historical conjuncture has to be preserved and strengthened by the vigilance of the social forces that have expressed it by themselves and by the permanent validity of the moral conscience of the whole society. Well, here we are talking about the vigilance that the social forces must put in place in order to protect a very noble good: the Constitution. There is talk of the permanent validity of the moral conscience of society all that must guard, as one watches over a small child, a newborn, someone who must be helped to grow so that it becomes stronger, stronger and can bear fruit. This reflection by Aldo Moro has called for teachings that I have heard on several occasions proposed by Gherardo Colombo when, explaining Article 1 of our Constitution, he reiterated that the concept of work, which we perhaps naively refer to a merely productive vision, must be understood differently. The work is that continuous effort, that attempt that every day every one of us, Italian citizens, must continue to deepen so that our Constitution comes to be something real, living, concrete, lived, rather than simply excited. I come to a criticism that I feel I have to do to the same Aldo Moro. We have all been taught that there is, there has been - and unfortunately it has been very deep - a gap between the formal Constitution and the material Constitution. If we are here today, if today we think that through an intervention on the institutions we can heal a crisis that is different, that is, of the parties, well it is because we did not understand how this gap was tragic and how this gap, not immediately healed, could lead to a very lively crisis, of which we are living today the consequences. However, since I am aware of my limitations, I stop here and invite you, for those few who are following me carefully, to reason on this fact: probably, in the opinion of many, not only of Italian constitutionalists but of foreign philosophers and theorists, we find ourselves one of the most beautiful Constitutions in the world; but we, unaware of this gift, have made it weird, with very limited awareness we have done harm, and now we find ourselves living without a tragic compass years. I have heard classicism quoted here - I must say it with great satisfaction, because from classicism you can only learn: when it is classicism it is because it is imperishable - and I was reminded of a famous phrase of St. Augustine: "Rome will not perish unless the Romans perish." I wonder if Italy has ever been born in function of that Constitution that has always and only been flagred, never taught, never made understood and above all never valued for how it should have been done. Even the fact that this debate, for the responsibility of all, takes place with a large part of these empty scrambles is a testimony of how little attention is paid to what, as Moro wanted, should be a foundation for our being together. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u138	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u139	Madam President, distinguished colleagues, we are witnessing a strange, paradoxical phenomenon: the Constitution, the most solemn foundation of our democracy, has as its public admirer and promoter a comedian; a comedian who has become famous and appreciated for his desecrating irreverence. Well, that comedian now sees the political area that he has always constructively stung, and from which he expected more, intent on overturning the Constitutional Charter that he loves so much. The comedian is Roberto Benigni, the party is the Democratic Party. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] The Democratic Party is certainly not only in this beautiful feat, it has other paradoxical allies: the Democratic Party has joined with the People of Freedom, convinced to hear the leadership, I do not know how strongly regarding Roberto Benigni, and I would also like to know. This Senate Act brings the number 813: even in the figures it upsets Article 138 of the Constitution, but I don't know if Benigni would laugh. A few months ago he dedicated to the Constitution a television show entitled "The most beautiful in the world."The parties now want to change its connotations. Benigni wanted to meet the President of the Republic who is one of the custodians of the Constitution: I recall that he appoints five members of the Constitutional Court, to the Constitution swears allegiance and makes the President of the Council and the Ministers swear. Now we see the President of the Republic and the Government being implicit in the reform of the Constitution, to which they have sworn allegiance. And we cannot forget what happened this spring as a majority elected President Napolitano and what majority now supports the President-in-Office of the Council whom he has appointed. The President of the Republic gave a clear mandate in his inauguration speech in Camere reunited. I quote: "No less unforgivable is the fact that the second part of the Constitution is still limited and targeted reforms remain unforgivable." And a little further, he added textual: "But I have a duty to be frank: if I find myself faced again with deafness like those against which I have fought in the past, I will not hesitate to draw the consequences before the country..." And the President must be frank: either he really believes that turning into a presidential or semi-presidency republic is a minimal and targeted reform, or the parties are going beyond what he said at the time; or the President thought that he would turn to Parliament and Parliament, that is to say to us all, entrusted this task or he, without our knowledge, turned to the government, even before we knew who he would ever entrust it to. That is why I wish you a word now and do not expect to be faced with a fact that has been accomplished and a signature to be signed. Many things - I hope - will have been able to observe and, as with diligence has sent us a peremptory and punctual warning about the indult and the amnesty, even on what is happening we trust will want to intervene. Whether he intervenes to clear out the strong doubts about this operation, or, legitimately, confirm his sharing of merit and method. Because then if this constitutional reform itself turned out to be unconstitutional, the ridiculous would submerge everything and everyone, and even on this should - I quote it again -...take the consequences before the country... I would also remind you that in Belgium, in the event of changes to the Constitution, the Chambers are dissolved, so that citizens can politically evaluate with a new vote who implemented them. Imagine what would happen here: the derogation is approved, the President dissolves the Chambers and the citizens vote at the same time the derogation and the parties that wanted it. Fantastic! A certain party leader said: I was judged by the Italians. Are you going to ask again this time? And you, on the left, will you have the courage to accept popular judgment? I'm afraid not because it's too gross what's happening. It does not escape the Italians that the so-called essays in charge of giving the lines for reform were directly appointed by the Government, a political government, because so the President wanted it, expression of a part, indeed of two or three parties, which - let us remember - are in our legislation subject to private law. They are private associations in which few summits have essentially appointed their parliamentarians thanks to a shameful electoral law. Private associations that now contract to their trustees the design of the new form of State. So these wise men have clear clients, but they do not represent the people. We learn from the press that Franco Frattini, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, in the summer of 2008, during the invasion of Georgia by the Russian friends, preferred to stay on holiday in the Maldives. A fine example of responsibility! Giovanni Pitruzzella and Nicolò Zanon, with other eminent lawyers such as Ida Nicotra, Ginevra Cerrina Feroni and, again, Giuseppe De Vergottini and Beniamino Caravita di Toritto, in 2008 came to sign an appeal in favor of the Alfano praise, one of the many ad personam laws to protect the interests of the "prejudiced B." Lorenza Violini, defended by the sword, treats another law ad personam: the legitimate impediment. But the Alfano praise was then declared unconstitutional and even the legitimate impediment was partially rejected by the Consulta. What authority can we attribute to these people today? Three of them are also investigated for a story of rigged competitions; let's remember them again: Beniamino Caravita di Toritto (Università La Sapienza di Roma), Giuseppe De Vergottini (Università di Bologna), Lorenza Violini (Università di Milano) and with them Augusto Barbera (Università di Bologna) and Carmela Salazar (Università di Reggio Calabria). The facts must be demonstrated, but the sense of dignity would like that Italy's democratic future should not be linked to people in the shadows. Finally, I quote another so-called essay: Valerio Onida, who - it is said - declared that Napolitano's sages are useless. We do not agree with Professor Onida (and I assume that he does not agree with himself, since he is now a member of the essays): we cannot call them wise or useless. On the one hand they didn't all shine for professional reliability and they're not all so wise and wise: I think of Luciano Violante who boasted to have guaranteed to the omniabsent B.D. not to proceed on the conflict of interests, and its ineligibility. Mr Fornaro (PD). But when? ENDRIZZI (M5S). On the other hand, we believe this Committee is certainly harmful to the country, but certainly useful for someone. Constitutionalist Lorenza Carlassarre refused to be part of this Committee of Wise Men. Instead, they put their voices at the service of a cause alien to their own people. It is said that Vladimir Il'ič Ul'janov, better known as Lenin (but some attribute the definition to Stalin) defined Western journalists and travelers who supported the Soviet Union as "useful idiots." Lenin may have read Dostoevsky, who described the protagonist of "L'idiota" as a candid, an integral, naive and genuine good. It is in fact that today the expression is used to describe someone who seems - seems - manipulated by a political force or an economic power. It is paradoxical that today Lenin's expression appears more fitting than that used by a well-known constitutionalist, charged today with a great responsibility. Very great, because here the pillar of the Constitution is being tampered with, the bulwark that defends it from hasty reforms, from blows of hand, that is Article 138, the article that defines as it can be, and we could also say as it should be, modify the Constitution. Not a brake on changes, but a rudder, which allows you to steer the ship in port and not on the rocks, with us all, the citizens, on board. Now, this cornerstone, ladies and gentlemen, you do not want to repeal it, you do not want to amend it, but you want to derogate it. To put it in digital jargon, you want to "crack" it at your use. That is to say, you recognize that Article 138 is really good and will be valid even after this reform, but not for this reform. Go explain it to a child: "You don't have to beat people up. Never. Woe to you if you beat Luigi again! But now close your eyes that I must beat the neighbor. A child understands that if a Constitutional Charter is the basis of all laws, it cannot be applied and exempted at will. The meaning of the Constitution is its stability, the certainty of its precepts, its sacred inviolability. We can change it, not rape it with disposable exceptions. A child understands that. But I am sure, I am sure that you also understand this and this increases your shame, your intimate shame and even more so if you really want to vote in favour of this bill, which has no real need. It is not freedom that is lacking, said Leo Longanesi; free men are lacking. And so, today, it is not the Constitution that is inadequate or old, as you have defined it; old and inadequate are the parties. I remind you that, when you had the will, pension reform took place in a few days; for the Alfano praise perhaps even less. And even real constitutional reforms, such as the central-left parafederalism, were conceived and implemented in four and four eight; a sign that perfect bicameralism is not a limit. But when intellectual honesty is lacking, it is not institutional architecture that saves you; the pillar is morals. You would now like to change the Constitution to ensure a priori numbers and certain governability. But let's remember that the last Berlusconi government had a Bulgarian majority and boasted of being a cohesive majority, with a solid and shared program: it fell in the most miserable way. Now, to cover your inadequacy, you support a presidential drift, by direct suffrage, as if it were an instrument of direct democracy. To this comes the smuggling of concepts, the dealing of adulterated truths. Direct democracy is not to delegate to a deus ex machina, it is to be able to indicate the direction of change, to set priorities, to be able to remove companies, to be able to express themselves with referendums propositive and without quorum and above all that these choices, regardless of and above any form of government, are respected, that these choices are applied. With repeated smuggling and word dealing, the parties torn the unwanted referendums to them, but wanted by overwhelming majorities of citizens. And we still have a Ministry of Agriculture, the public funding of the parties and the possibility for private individuals to get rich on the management of public water. A real rape of the referendum institute. We cannot leave the reform of the beating heart of democracy in the hands of these subversive organizations of the people's will. The 5 Star Movement proposed an amendment to this bill, because - at least this was due - it was subordinate to a referendum; but you rejected it. It is a clear demonstration that you do not represent the will of the people; indeed, fear it, you are frightened by the will of the people, you are terrified that this last whispering of yours, this rattling of the beast struck to death, is seen, judged, and your end is finally delivered to history. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the PD Group.]] Now, in this second chamber passage, it is no longer possible to amend the text. We can only vote yes or no, and you hold the knife. [[Comments of Senator Susta]] You can sink it into the flesh, store it or, at least, hold your arm. There is still a possibility and your every vote counts, it counts for international public opinion, it counts for us citizens, it counts for your conscience. If this bill does not achieve two thirds of the consensus, the referendum will become mandatory. In the previous votes in the Senate and the House, this was precisely what happened: the two-thirds threshold was not reached. If, on the other hand, this threshold is now exceeded, if consciences, which are claimed to be still burning under the ashes of the parties, are completely extinguished, if you want to subtract these deformed reforms (for methods and merit), your intimate shame will become public gloat. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u140	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission and the Parliamentary Committee for Childhood and Adolescence are again convened tomorrow, Thursday, October 17, at 2 p.m., at the headquarters of Palazzo San Macuto, in Via del Seminario, to proceed to the relative constitution. I also communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Central Initiative is again convened, tomorrow, at 2 p.m., in the headquarters of Palazzo Valdina, Sala Soprachiesa, to proceed to the relative constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u141	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u142	Madam President, Mr Quagliariello, and, of course, Mr De Camillis, who has always replaced him well, thank you for being here to listen to the advice and proposals that come from this branch of Parliament. Minister, it is difficult to innovate and to make it understood is often even more difficult. I would like to return to the constituent Fathers and to a part of them, of which I always wear the symbol. I refer to the socialist members of the constituent assembly: Pietro Nenni, Paolo Treves, Angelina Merlin, Carlo and Matteo Matteotti, two who later became Presidents of the Republic, Sandro Pertini and Giuseppe Saragat. Well, those constituent Fathers in their work thought that they had to rebuild Italy and gave birth to a Constitution of peace in order to give Italy, in the 1980s, the pride of being the fifth world economic power, with the Presidency of the Council of Bettino Craxi and with many socialists to the Government. In affirming that the Constitution must be adapted to the times, which must be modernised, I, who have the DNA of the Socialists Constitutionalists, say that this was their will because they themselves included in the Constitutional Charter of Forecasting so that after 10, 20, 50, 100 years would be changed, it would be adapted to the times. We cannot act like Cardinal Bellarmino when he condemned both Giordano Bruno and Galileo Galilei for the heliocentric theory supported by these, as we continued to say that however in the Bible, in the Old Testament, it was the sun that was in motion around the earth, so it was still. This does not mean that the Old Testament should no longer be considered: the times had changed, Galileo Galilei brought the scientific demonstration of a new reasoning with the discoveries of the time, so rightly with the Copernican revolution there was a change, but one had to be ready to understand that things had changed. At that time the Holy Inquisition condemned both Galileo Galilei and Giordano Bruno to abjure, because he considered them heretics. The colleagues who are intervening one after the other saying that they do not obstruct, even if that would be a technique and would be understandable, have a behavior similar to that of Cardinal Bellarmino of that Holy Inquisition who thought he had the absolute truth only in his own hands. Moreover, with negationism - I carry a current term - they mean that the Constitutional Charter, our Charter of the Fathers, is not ready for updating or does not foresee it. Why should this be said? That's not possible. Our Charter itself has the possibility of being updated, and rightly it provides that, at the request of five regional councils or five hundred thousand people, even if the constitutional reform is approved by a qualified majority of two thirds of the members of each House, there is the possibility of reaching the popular referendum. But who is afraid of the popular referendum? There are political forces elected with seven, eight, nine million voters: they turn to them; they collect signatures and make referendums. We of the LAG Group believe that it is necessary to do so, as has already been done, perhaps by reviewing article 68, referring it to the one written by the constituent Fathers, and Title V, which has caused so much damage to health in Italy. In other words, we believe that it is necessary to arrive at a Constitution adapted to the times: let us Europeanize the Constitution; this is what the constituent Fathers, through the unworthy undersigned, who nevertheless has their DNA, bring as a contribution to this Assembly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u143	Madam President, first of all I would like to say to Mr Endrizzi that our President of the Republic enjoys the confidence of the Italian people, he applies and implements the Constitution with great seriousness and rigour. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] Our Constitution in Part I is a fantastic Constitution, it contains beautiful principles, precisely the result of the war against fascism that has been discussed in this House. The problem is that the instruments that it identifies in Part II are perhaps in some cases somewhat outdated: time has passed, in the 1950s the process of European integration, which is evolving, has been launched, and things change. On the fact that the current bicameralism must be overcome I believe that there is no doubt; that the number of parliamentarians is to be reduced I think is shared by the vast majority of Italian citizens. As regards the form of government, of course the debate is open and complicated, because finding the most suitable formula is not easy, but I would like to recall two facts. Firstly, since the direct election of the mayor, which guarantees almost all municipalities continuity of management for five years, after which the citizens judge, I have not heard any criticism that it would be better to go back to the past, when the municipal councils changed mayor at each step pushed. Secondly, the President of the United States of America is considered the most powerful man in the world, yet these days we see how many problems he has. In fact, even in a presidential system, if there are weights and balances, if there are balances between the various powers, democratic principles remain valid. So the President of the United States of America must also discuss, sometimes even with great problems and difficulties, with the House and Senate of that country. As far as the method is concerned, frankly, I find it extravagant to say that 18 months are too few and to say that we want to compress the people's will when, in the end, a referendum (a referendum where we vote, not a referendum via the web, a real referendum) asks citizens to express themselves before any new changes become operational. As far as the electoral law passing through is concerned, let us remember that, if we make a new Constitution, with changes, then the electoral law must go down. Is it necessary to intervene now for these months? Well, I disagree a little with Senator Della Vedova. Let's do what needs to be done. The ambition is a valid push, but the excess of ambition is not. As always, too much to rub. Finally, I should like to make a comment. During last Friday's sitting we had to adopt a law that stated a sacrosanct objective, namely the fight against feminicide, but with a text that contained everything and more, even improper measures. President Finocchiaro and all the group leaders have recognised that our parliamentary rules are obsolete. Well, if we have the legitimate ambition to try to change the Constitution, please change the rules of operation quickly, because we must ensure that the meetings of the Commission and the House are more productive. They can be. Let's get busy for a change. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u144	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Undersecretaries, as is well known, the draft law of the Government we are debating, No 813-B, is fit to set up the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms. The Government would therefore like to inaugurate a neo-constituent phase by way of derogation from the Constitution itself, which, in Articles 138 and 72, provides clearly and imperatively for the modalities of its revision. The neo-constituent government seems not to be more concerned with the limits and procedures of constitutional revision established by the constituent Fathers, as if they were laces and laces to the reformer (or counter-reformer) impetus so felt today. But it's not enough. This draft law is concerned, and is concerned, with greatly limiting the prerogatives of non-member Members of the Committee of the 42. For example, it will only be possible to table the amendments rejected by the Committee in the referee or new ones, but only if they are directly related to the modified parties. It will be possible to table amendments within five days of the date set for the start of the general discussion. These are just two examples of the additional limits that will have to be introduced to parliamentary activities for those who, like me, are outside this Committee. Now let us ask ourselves: what democratic legitimacy does the will to amend the Constitution that animates the Government and the majority support? The electoral law with which this Parliament was elected is probably spoiled by inconstitutionality (and the Constitutional Court will shortly establish it). In the absence of the preferred vote, parliamentarians were appointed by the party leaders and not by voters, with the exception of the internal primary (which we call "parliamentary") made by the 5 Star Movement. The parties that make up the current majority in the electoral campaign had sworn eternal enmity, with so much slogans: on the one hand, there were those who were stains and, on the other, those who spoke of "communists who eat children." Such a government has never been proposed to the citizens, to the voters, nor has it ever been discussed, and that is something that makes us think. Moreover, the current President of the Republic is in his second term: this practice has never been foreseen, nor has it been conceived by the constituent Fathers. With a Parliament, a Government and a Presidency of the Republic in this situation, which I merely define as exceptional, we would now like to create a further exception: a Committee for Constitutional Reforms to which we delegate the reform initiative of which it is the sole holder of law, and according to the Constitution, Parliament as a whole. Well, there is a limit to exceptions, to the right and to the abuse of power, and there is a limit to emptying the prerogatives of Parliament which exercises and must exercise popular sovereignty. Today we are all witnessing a tragic crisis of the legitimacy of democratic institutions. Never, in the history of the Republic, has confidence in Parliament and political forces been so low. Never, in the history of the Republic, have the institutions enjoyed such a poor and insufficient consensus: the voting percentages in the elections, in continuous decline, are the constant proof of this. And this is not because, as we hear repeated by many party leaders, the Italian people do not understand, do not appreciate the reformist efforts, or because the young Italians would be "unworkable," as they had the courage to declare recently a Minister, or because the Italians are "bambuccioni", "pigri", "accustomed to live above their own means." Such are the insults and contempt reserved to the citizens and the Italian people by the last governments. Well, if the confidence in politics is at the very least historical, it is not for these reasons, it is not because the Italians don't understand it or they are "bombs." It is because, on the contrary, the citizens understand all too well! It is because citizens understand very well the departure of politics from the pursuit of the common good, to draw far too close to particular and partisan interests: we could cite countless examples - we have seen them in this House - from slot machines to the purchase of F-35, to the TAV. And then, in this situation of democratic crisis, before we put in the field of intentional attempts at constitutional reform, we should bring politics closer to the citizens. We urgently need positive referendums, new and effective ways of consulting the people's will, procedures for participation from the bottom up in governance, the establishment of new places of confrontation and dialogue between citizens and institutions. In this the parties failed. From the square and the parade last Saturday, and even before from popular support to the initiatives of the 5 Star Movement in defense of the Constitution, a desperate scream of Italian citizens in defense of legality and an unavoidable request for participation has been lifted. We need more democracy, not derogations and exceptions to the rules laid down in the Constitution! The majority parties have long announced that they want to change nothing less than the form of State, from a parliamentary Republic to a presidential Republic. Allowed and not allowed that we are already, in fact, in a presidential Republic, I wonder if these parties have a vague feeling and feeling of what they are asking for. Who did they consult with to establish that we have to travel to a presidential republic? Who did they talk to before establishing that the priority of Italian citizens would be to break up the Parliamentary Republic? What legitimacy and consensus do they imagine to have in the face of such final choices? The whole process of constitutional reform, badly embroiled by the majority parties by way of derogation from constitutional rules, is without legitimacy. As a 5 Star Movement we demand that this process be interrupted, that the majority parties stop and reflect, that they consult the citizens before any further step. A few days ago the great popular demonstration in Rome, which I have already mentioned, declared that the Constitution is the main road. Let this Parliament not lose its way! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u146	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, institutional reform and constitutional revision are important and challenging words, which require all of us, representatives but also citizens of this Republic, a careful and courageous reflection, a constant and determined commitment, the refusal of approximations, hasty announcements or noises, which are not suited to such a high and difficult task. Those who underestimated this passage would be deeply mistaken, that is to say they thought of it as a phase of the political battle of these years. It's a lot more than that. We must and we want to change rules and parts of our Constitution, of that solemn act which governs the fundamental rules within which the life of the Republic and of our democratic society takes place. A high and difficult task, in order to prepare ourselves to which we must respond to an issue that is before us, which is in the minds of the citizens, sometimes in a confused and unconscious way. Why do we need to change part of the Constitution? And again, what kind of change is necessary and right today for our country? These are fundamental questions, which do not allow a quick and simple answer, but require a research, a careful analysis of what has happened and has not worked in recent decades; they require a dialogue and a confrontation that is not preliminary and not contained in a partisan perspective, in a defense of old interests and positions. Allow me to make a first statement; our Constitution has not failed its objectives, it is not a Constitution to be thrown away. When, in March 1947, the constituent assembly began the general debate in this House, we warned, after the tragedies that had struck Italy and Europe as a whole, that some fundamental goods had to be assured to the country and to future generations: freedom and respect for the rights of the human person, popular sovereignty expressed by the freely elected Parliament, the political and moral unity of the nation, the social and civil process of our people. Well, this set of values and this fundamental heritage have been guaranteed to the Italians by the Constitution in recent decades, despite uncertainties and difficulties, persistent oppositions and terrible attacks on democracy, such as terrorism and then organised crime and the mafia, which today threatens and attacks our civil and political institutions. Why has our Constitution been able to cope with these challenges? Many factors have been involved and I believe that the strength of our people, its unity around democratic values, has been fundamental, but also - I repeat and want to stress this - the modernity and foresight of the Constitution and its general structure, which in the century of the great ideological and principle divisions, of which we all see today the crisis, perhaps irreversible, has been able to achieve a balance of values: freedom and solidarity, unity and pluralism, the indivisibility of the State and decentralisation, the right to work and freedom of enterprise, private property and public control of the economy. So let us not throw this Constitution away; we do not want a whole new Constitution. The point is another. We feel that this heritage and these values are in difficulty today, they suffer from insidious threats that therefore need a new sap to give new and further fruits. They are not lost values and goods, as someone believes or wants to make people believe. If that were the case, it could not be us here and today to make this talk of renewal and to draw the necessary reforms; others, rightly, would be in our place representatives of political and social forces of other nature and character. There would be a break in our constitutional history and a new constituent power, and not already a constituted power as we are and must not forget to be. In order to give new life to our Constitution, it is necessary to put hand to its second part, to the institutional mechanisms of representation and decision-making. This is the fundamental indication of the resolutions that were approved by the House and the Senate that established the bicameral commission twenty years ago. I know that some people object that the Constitution cannot be split in two like an apple and say that half is good and one is bad. But it is true - and we cannot forget this - that the institutions, their character, their rules of operation have autonomy, a reason to be peculiar and autonomous. There is - we would be wrong to deny it and always explain everything with politics - a technique of institutions; it is taught by all the constitutionalism that has developed in this century and that, not by chance, has received its most significant definition in that of "technique of freedom." I believe, therefore, not only in the possibility, but in the urgency of institutional reforms, also for the personal affair of this last decade, for the responsibilities that have been entrusted to me and that have allowed me a general view of the problems and the functioning of our State. There are, of course, deep knots to dissolve, new structures to outline. This indication also comes from the movement that has developed in the country, from a request of the citizens who already strongly expressed themselves with the referendum on the single preference in June 1991 and above all, I want to stress, from the political vote that gave rise to the current legislature. The structure of Parliament, the relationship between the central and autonomous states, the mechanisms of representation and the decision of government, the structures for the implementation and guarantee of individual and collective rights - we must acknowledge this - are no longer adequate and do not facilitate further progress in their present form. Probably in the face of these fundamental problems there were inadequate and old solutions and mechanisms at the very time when the Constitution was deliberate. But even if this had not been so, history has also walked much and tumultuously in these decades. Challenges and new problems have been imposed inside and outside each country; profound, sometimes shocking, transformations have come about. They range from the modernity and rapidity of communication between individuals, first unthinkable (so much that we speak today of planet-village) to the discoveries and applications of science that touch, with the themes of bioethics, the most intimate fibers of man. Faced with all this, in order for the fundamental values of our Constitution to continue and develop again, we need updated mechanisms of overall government of the country, of a government of our society that is not only democratic, but even more democratic, if compared with the past. In this work that we are going to do there are in us - and I am talking above all about those who are closest to my generation - complex feelings, perhaps contradictory, concerns, sometimes doubts. There is especially bitterness because the problems could have been solved in the past, they should not have reached such a level of complexity and degradation. But there is also the conviction that there is still time to act and there is also - allow me this term - the pride that, despite everything, for the strength of our people, for the battles that in the squares and in the places of work are led to defend social and civil conquests, remains open for our country a perspective of democracy, of desire and demand for participation and, despite everything, of hope and trust in the future. Italy, ladies and gentlemen, is not a country on its knees (as you want us to believe, I stress) and I realize the seriousness of this statement made at such a time. In his people, in his people there are still great moral resources, great energies that it would be our job to deploy. But be careful! Here there is all the great responsibility of a ruling class that must not and can no longer afford the luxury of error and delay. We must move forward with clear and well-thought-out choices, with responsible proposals, that touch all open themes and know how to see them together in any case, even if then everyone will have their own specific solution. We must have the ambition to outline structures capable of governing, certainly not for eternity but at least for a reasonable temporal perspective, the life of our country. This is not the time to enter into the merit of the problems, but it is beyond doubt that the most delicate point, where the most contrasts, uncertainties and even the change of opinions, is precisely what intertwines the mechanism of representation with the formation of the Government. I believe that this issue today is made even more complex, because to it the crisis of political parties has been added and superimposed, which concerns not only their ability to live coalitions and programmes, but it is within their intimate structure: it concerns their link with social demands, their ability to interpret them and place them in an ideal and general project perspective; it concerns profound degenerations that are boundless in the abuse of public authorities, in the theft of public money. We must be aware of this and this must make us cautious in thinking that all the problems will be resolved by a single reform. Let us look at other European experiences to learn from the structures they have experienced, as well as from the reflections, doubts and reformist intentions that exist in those countries and that must not be considered little. If we could move with this awareness, but at the same time with the desire to do and not find alibi to postpone and sink, we would be able to find the way and reach the goal. Of course, as I said before, the proposal should have been clear, understandable to the citizens. All institutional mechanisms, and in particular electoral ones, do not exist in the pure, ideal state, but are always empirical elaborations. Their basic approach must be united and coherent in order to have strength, to enter the political civilization of a people and then, over time, to constitute a tradition. This has happened with the proportional principle in Italy in these Republican decades. Many have now recognized its important merits in the development of democracy, but today limits and shortcomings are felt. The new system, to which it was necessary to go - and I stress above all the results of the referendum of 9 June 1991 - should, even more so than the old one, have made everyone feel that they counted, that they were represented, that they had a voice of proposal in Parliament, but also a voice of protest. The new system should certainly not feed fragmentation or dispersion, but it should not disperse differences and originality, nor political traditions. Behind a political force are the real citizens, with their social place, their history and their faith, with their hopes and expectations. They are not - we are not - all equal, all transformable, transferable or homologable. Of course, the political forces we know are not a fact that must be valid for eternity, but we cannot even think that they can disappear overnight. If this were to happen, it would probably be a colossal chameleon operation, a pure transformation, on the basis of which we would find ourselves faced with the oldest in the previous parties, with a new label. The road is another: that of the renewal of parties, radical and profound, made with an open face, in a transparent way and under the control of the public opinion, that must see change not so much and not only the faces, but also the methods of action, behavior in public responsibilities, the choices and selections of the new ruling groups, which must be democratic and crystalline, so that we can not say that the wolf loses his hair but not the vice. I wanted to stress this point because our work of institutional reform, in order to succeed, should be accompanied by the reform of the political system and the regeneration of political parties. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament must not fail in its task: it has a great responsibility which we must recognise and which must lead us to act, each for its part, with determination, but with a clearness of intent and proposals. To lower the quality of the comparison here, the rigour in advancing their arguments and the ability to be flexible in the elaboration of possible synthesis would be a serious damage (it would be better to change, these days it is better to explain it) for all and would weaken Parliament's role and prestige in the reform process. I very much hope that there will be everyone's attention in carrying out the joint work and, with regard to Parliament's responsibility, I would like to stress the importance of not having touched on the establishment of Article 138 of the Constitution. I want to stress the importance of not having touched on the establishment of Article 138 of the Constitution, and I want to stress the importance of not touching it, as the Presidents of the Chambers had rightly advised in the document they drafted and proposed to the parliamentary groups (yes, it happened: inform you). 18.59 p.m. (EPE follow-up). This, not only because there is a framework of guarantees in it that should not have been mitigated, or at least altered, but because, by modifying that article or derogating from them, we would have told the public and the country that this process of revision means in some way a break, even if limited, of the continuity of our democratic order as it emerged from the constituent Assembly. A difficult task, therefore, awaits us. Our responsibility - as I have said several times - is enormous. If we fail and if we miss this occasion that we ourselves, on the basis of a deep and widespread demand of the citizens, have sought and created, certainly not everything will be lost, but the future history of the country (and also ours) will be more difficult and more suffering. And here twenty years ago there were applause and many congratulations. This was the speech that Nilde Iotti gave to the Chamber of Deputies on 1 December 1992 on the procedure for approving the new Constitution, on the functions of the Parliamentary Committee for institutional reforms and on the discipline of the constitutional revision procedure. That's why you betrayed, that's why you're betraying. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u148	She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who listen to us from home, we are here today to talk about this constitutional bill, but I would like to start with some basic reflections. Today TV, the media, communication in general have made in recent years stars and first women not soubrettines with ostrich buoys and lustres, but politicians. Yes, in recent years politics has become a great spectacle, a sparkling television show, but it's a pity that on TV you don't hear about Article 138. The politicians told us, educated, bombarded us with wonderful news about their amazing work and made us believe that their daily presence in our lives is indispensable. How could we live on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesday nights without the sitting room? The little scoop on duty? [[Senator Pagglini points out the reason for the initials of the television show "Porta a Porta" (Porta a Porta)]] ..and go from door to door... the true heart of Parliament and of the Words! But we are not talking about Article 138. The politician of the last twenty years has made us think that without the political stars we citizens no longer have fun. But as in all comedies it's all fake, prepacked: the applause with the boss claque, the laughter on command... "come Siri and Sire, welcome to the world of fun"!!! Evening brawls, gartering, crying and crying caught with zoom, curls on shift. Yay, everything is news! Millions of viewers, of citizens, have seen only what politics, this policy, wanted to show, but there is no trace of Article 138. And while the Italians are waiting to see what will happen in the next episode of the soap opera of mediocrity, there are those who fatten their pockets and those who, instead, see themselves parading under the nose very important parts of their republican history. Yes, you have tried to anesthetize a people with the oblivion of your commanding communication, which has had the shame of making even the "dwarves and dancers" seem giant, of course without offense to the two categories mentioned! Well, today we are faced with this world so distorted and remote-controlled by a few, very few masters of economic, financial and especially media power, who want to turn our Constitution upside down. Get rid of the spectators on duty! Patience, then will trigger the "shopping tips" and another massive dose of anaesthetic, maybe a beautiful world championship in Brazil in June 2014. Gentlemen, do you want to turn the Constitution upside down? You, who vote for colleagues who are absent. You, who put paper balls in the hole of the vote to be present even when you are out of this House to take the diary to the streets of the citizens. Shameful transversal practice now established over time. You, who support a president of the government, Enrico Letta, who is able to lie first night on your televisions, able to announce to millions of people false things and in favor of the caste, except then be shamelessly disproved the next day by his party partner, the vice president of the Roberto Giachetti Chamber. You, who are strong enough to have the power of information in your hands, and who give billions and billions of public money through the funding of newspapers, save then find us in the embarrassing and painful fifty-seventh place for freedom of the press. You? The Constitution must not be scorned, but it must be applied! We do not see Pertini on duty, neither De Gasperi, nor Einaudi among these benches, we do not feel pathos, do not transmit security and even less sense of institutional balance, you are far light years away from people who with their sacrifice and their blood have engraved the Charter of our democracy. Derogations from Article 138 shall not be eligible. When the Constituents wrote the Constitution, they did so by looking at the long term, the future, at the ransom of a country that, after twenty years of dictatorship, began to become a democratic nation. Our constituent Fathers and Mothers wrote the Constitution thinking of the long term, of future generations. Who today asks to change the Constitution resides in these Palaces and exercises Power with the capital "P" by many, too many legislatures. I ask these people: do you really want to improve the Constitutional Charter or do you just want to consolidate your power that you see threatened by the news you see around you? I realize that many of these benches have been frightened by the innovations carried out by the 5 Star Movement, accustomed as you have been for decades to confront each other with the same people. By now you were convinced that the places of Italian politics were your club. When we filled the squares in Italy and you couldn't even fill a small theatre, you continued with your boredom to say "full squares," empty urns, convinced that you are the only protagonists of Italian politics and convinced that you are irreplaceable. Probably many of you do not understand the changes that have occurred in the country and the drama that Italian families live every day. The crisis has been caused not only by international contingency, but also by the omissions and bad politics of recent decades, for which you are responsible and the architects. What you are doing now with the reform of the Constitution is trying to create rules that are more useful to the maintenance of your privileges and your personal power. Compared to the past, we have given rise to a concrete hope of change. For the first time, the citizens' network has entered the chambers of power and you know that citizens now know what is happening in real time. We have been organized for months in every square with a wide network of initiatives to explain to the Italians what you are doing. Italian citizens see you, see us, judge you, judge us, and know that short-term interests should never move politics. Article 138 shall not be derogated from. It is a norm intended by our Fathers and our Mothers as a guarantee of the democratic order born in Italy after the Second World War. Behind every article in our Constitution are the sacrifices of thousands of Italians who died during the Resistance; men who with their courage teach us that in our history there have been people ready to sacrifice their lives for our freedom. Piero Calamandrei - as many colleagues have pointed out - wanted to remember who had written the Constitution, the many voices of unknown people: fallen fighting, shot, hanged, tortured, starved in concentration camps, died in Russia, died in Africa, died on the streets of Milan, on the streets of Florence, people who had given their lives so that freedom and justice could be written on the Constitutional Charter. Taking a path such as that of an extraordinary constitutional review procedure is extremely serious for democracy. This means that we are faced with a paraconstitutive power that transcends Parliament's powers and risks involving not only Title IV of Part II of the Constitution, but also Part I. Of course, those who want to put their hands on the instruments of revision of the Constitution want to do so in order to change it radically and quickly. It is also serious that a group of so-called wise men was first appointed. President Napolitano, if I may say so, the essays are others. The essays are others, they are the various father Alex Zanotelli [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which has always fought in the streets and squares to protect the common good, the water that must be a right, the clean air that must be a common good. The essays are Gino Strada [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , who refuses to take state aid for its emergency hospitals in the world, because here they manufacture the weapons of death and have made anti-personnel mines for years, and you can't take money from the executioner! The essays are the partisan commander Luigi Fiori, called Fra Devil, who at 93 years of age continues to go to the schools of my area and my land to tell about the fatigue, death and suffering suffered in order to get to write the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And think, he gave away 50,000 copies of our card. Luigi Fiori often reminds us that the Head of State has sworn on this Constitution and not on what many others would like. The essays are others, like Professor Salvatore Natoli, a philosopher, who makes audiences fall in love when he talks about the meaning of words, because it is from there that everything is born, and makes people fall in love with the sound of philosophy and reasoning. Here in these long years you have succeeded very well in one thing: you have managed to remove citizens from politics, from participation, from reasoning, creating the monster of abstentionism to the ballot box and total distrust of institutions, that is, yourselves. Here, in this you are masters! A club, you're a club. Now this small group, with soccer team numbers, wants semi-presidency, that is, it wants to give more power to the President of the Council, with further emptying of sense and power of Parliament, which would become a mere body of ratification, as already happens today with the excessive recourse to the decree of urgency. Congratulations! The constitutional law that is under discussion would like to rewrite the rules governing the current system, going beyond Article 138, making the creation of a bicameral committee mandatory, which, on the basis of what you consider to be wise, would propose constitutional changes. At this point, what would Parliament be more useful for? Once again, it would be a mere ratification body. The 5 Star Movement wants, instead, to give centrality back to Parliament, putting a brake on the decree of urgency and the delegated laws that strip the Chambers of their role. The 5 Star Movement will always oppose the subterfuges and traps of those who think to change the Constitution not by following the rules, but by creating extraordinary procedures and, above all, the 5 Star Movement will always fight for the return of the sovereignty of citizens. It is good to remember that the people who today claim the right to change the Constitution were not elected by an electoral law that allowed the people to choose their own representatives. The citizens are watching us: never, as in recent months, have the network information channels transmitted so much information about what really happens in these rooms. Courage; we must have courage, my citizens who listen! We try hard to bring your voice, and I too am taking courage and strength in the fact that you are also participating at this moment. I feel that our presence here is not accidental; this is and will be history of tomorrow, the story that our grandchildren will read in books and, above all, on the net. Of this past twenty years perhaps there will not be any great traces in the school books, perhaps something will be read, in some dusty magazine, in some glossy rotogravure at the Vanity Fair, Chi, Novella 2000, 3000, 4000, between the lines of a commercial in Cortina and a photographic service in Porto Cervo. And now, gentlemen, it is 7.15 p.m., go powder well, even today there is the "faziosa" transmission that wants you protagonists to tell your magnificences, your farsightedness, your yet another lie to the Italians. But how long do you think you're gonna fool us? Get your hands off the Constitution! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u150	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. Because of his absence, he's supposed to have given up.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u151	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u152	Mr President, I was distracted by this very lively debate and this presence. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u153	Don't get excited, Senator Uras.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u154	URAS (Misto-SEL). We try to save the survivors as much as we can. I wanted to reason because it seems to me that the debate is not just about how we think the new Constitution should be, but it has been said that it is also a general discussion on the draft constitutional law that is being approved. Speaking also to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, I say that we can relax: the problem of amending the Constitution is not so close in time. I have read the working dynamics of the Committee that are planned, the timing and the terms of the draft law and I have to say that I have calmed down. My daughter is 23 years old: we have time to see her great-grandmother before making a constitutional reform through the rules of this measure. By the way, those who have laid it down have also realized it, because Article 7 says that: The Committee shall cease its duties by the publication of the law or laws (...). Already this rule leads us to an interpretative effort, that is: does the Committee dissolve or not, when the first law is passed? Perhaps not, but we have written that it can be dissolved with the approval of the first law. Continuing the reading of the article, it refers to constitutional laws, but also to ordinary laws approved under this Constitutional Law. Therefore, it is assumed that the laws in question can never be one or in any case it is very likely that one is not limited to one. So we should wait for the approval - indeed, the publication - of constitutional and ordinary laws related to constitutional laws, which are the subject of this bill. So when does the Committee end? When does it turn off? The Committee shall cease in the event that I have just mentioned, i.e. when at least one of the Chambers is dissolved. We, therefore, have before us a legislature that will lead us to 2018, in which we will discuss many constitutional and ordinary laws; it may also be that some of them are approved. Surely all constitutional ones, in accordance with Article 5 of the draft law under consideration, must be - or rather, may - subject to referendums. Under the terms laid down in Article 5, they may be submitted to a referendum if one fifth of the members of a House, or five hundred thousand voters, or five regional councils so require: so there are also conditions for referendums to be promoted. I do not want to delay then on the various notes I took about when the Presidents of the Chambers intervene to establish the terms, about when they take the first three months and the second three months, about the next 45 days, about the ten days, which are attached to the next 45 days, about the six months and about what else we can identify as instrumentation relating to the terms set out in the provision. I found this very complex, even from the point of view of interpretation. The rules of this law are intertwined with the regulations. Let's say that for the approval of these draft laws we observe the Regulations, then we introduce rules that modify those same Regulations. Therefore, it is certainly very, but very complex, legally, to arrive at the adoption of a constitutional reform bill. There is another aspect: technical problems are not enough, because there is also a series of political problems. If any of us had forgotten, I would like to remind you that the majority holding this Government is an abnormal majority, made up of two very conflicting parties, to which is added another conflict: the one within each of these great parties. There is a great, great debate that intertwines the members of each of these great parties, and of the parties among themselves, with the social system, with the interests and with the needs that each one intends to represent. The conflicts on these issues that we see on the horizon will certainly be substantial conflicts and that will very hardly lead us to the conclusion of a productive path. Of this, Minister, I am not happy, because I would have liked to have done something that is needed, and therefore to think about the hypothesis of modification of Part II of the Constitution, in order to better implement Part I; I think that Senator Carraro said so before. We have a Part I of the Constitution, made up of absolutely extraordinary principles and a Part II that struggles to carry out its implementing function of the one preceding it. And so I would like to participate positively in the definition of constitutional provisions that make those principles truly implemented in the legal order of our country. Unfortunately, that will not be the case. Unfortunately we have still done an exercise to which we have also applied passionately, many of us with a lot of passion, but that risks being an unnecessary exercise. Yet there are problems. Look, I don't have the same vision as the present majority, that you don't understand what it is, because you don't know if it's a majority: this broad understanding is something that doesn't work. It's a bit of the right and a bit of the left, it's a mixture; it's not something that's useful to the country, it's not something we can stand either. They can't stand it and others can't stand it: it doesn't work. But we come from a reform of Title V of the Constitution where we thought that, in a context of European unification not only monetary, economic but also political, it would be useful to give a positive outlet to regional identities and open up from the places the debate, for a integration that was true, of peoples. Today we have a view, envisaged by the Government, that is exactly the opposite: authoritarian and neo-centralist. It saves the only institutional dimension which runs counter to the objective of European integration; national integration. Moreover, it does not take into account the fact that Europe is not one, but has different interests, needs and aspirations in every part. And that of the Mediterranean, that of the South, is not so homogeneous to that of the Centre-North, that it looks to the East. And these differences are also in our country. I respect everyone. I say that my way of thinking, as an island, as a Sardinian, of a territory that is in the middle of the Mediterranean, that lives a condition objectively different from that of Lombardy, my view of Sardinian is different from that of Lombardy and has the right to be expressed and heard and to count at least for my reality. On the other hand, there is a risk that there will be reasonings and choices, even on time in terms of calculations (especially as regards expenditure), which are made in Milan. And we are forced to suffer standards in our territory, of 1,600,000 inhabitants, very large, with a low population density, that is in the middle of the sea and that requires that every citizen is guaranteed the possibility of mobility, through means that are the plane and the ship and that cannot be either the train or the car, that instead they can use all the Milanese to cross practically all Europe and Italy. This condition, these standards are defined in Milan and are applied to Sardinia, with great damage to this Region; and if they were defined in Cagliari, they would be applied with great waste in that reality that is Milan. And we live in the age of standards, in which everything must be centralized, in which everything must be reasoned within a bureaucratic sphere of power management, which is not tolerable. And that is the real reason why there is a division between the political class and citizens: citizens cannot understand the solutions that are identified in that room, because there are people who live in that room, who close themselves and who never open the window. That's why I'm sad. I would have liked to see this measure working, I would have liked to see principles written, I would have liked to see a constitutional law implementing, for example, the principle set out in Article 5 of the Constitution, the principle of autonomy, and making it actually operational, to give it effect. Article 5 stipulates that national legislation shall adapt to the development of self-government: it shall adapt, not the contrary. That's the principle. Instead, we re-introduce the principle of supremacy (it is in acts, even in motions). But what are we doing? On the contrary, contrary to the principle set out in Article 5. I would like to say to Senator Carraro that unfortunately the elaboration that is in the field goes in a direction exactly opposite to the full implementation of Part I, so important, of our Constitutional Charter. We don't want to obstruct. We do not want to make a sterile opposition. We don't want to lock ourselves in another room and not open the window. However, we make a request to the Government and to this majority, which is not understood, that will never be understood, that is endured because in the meantime it must carry out a difficult task, even ungrateful, that of satisfying parameters of an economic and financial nature that are truly intolerable even for our country, especially for the people that this country has made so beautiful and so alive. We ask that the Government take the decision not to lock itself in the elaborations already carried out. We have started this parliamentary term with the Committee of Wise Men of the President of the Republic; we have continued with the Committee of Experts of the President of the Council; we are now in the Committee of Parliament: from one committee to another. Please - I ask the Minister who represents the Government here - let us do one thing: let us also listen to the local communities, the citizens, the social organizations, the business world, those who are the recipients of the accumulation of rules that we continually produce! We delete so many unnecessary rules. Almost no one, not even those in charge, can now understand what is in force, what has been repealed, how has been modified; even the writing of our laws is encrypted, so that no one understands what we are doing! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In short, we change the nature of our relationship as legislators with the country, and we on this ground, together with the others, are absolutely willing to do our part. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u155	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u156	President, Minister, Senator citizens, I agree with Senator Uras: there would actually be so many rules that should be repealed or, as they say, simplified. For example, during the 14th legislature, with the signature of the Minister of Justice Castelli and the President of the Republic Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, under Law No 85 of 2006, over 14 articles of the penal code have been amended and in some cases decriminalized and/or repealed. On this subject, we were told that it was necessary to eliminate, modify or decriminalise a series of crimes that had nothing to do with the freedom of thought and opinion that characterizes a democratic state. Not being, ladies and gentlemen, obviously a so-called judicialist, I could have rejoiced at the intervention of decriminalization of certain facts of crime that were indicated as crimes of opinion, but at a careful reading of articles subject to modification, repeal or decriminalization, we find some very delicate and important articles for which we cannot (but have done so) talk about crimes of opinion. These were attacks against the integrity and unity of the State, subversive or subversive associations, propaganda and subversive activities, but above all attacked against the Constitution of the State. These crimes, like to say, retouched or taroccati concern (in fact, they concerned) conducts much more alarming and above all referable also to those who, through their institutional position, attacked the Constitution by means not allowed by the constitutional order, that is from the inside of the State itself, such as the attack against the Constitution of the State, provided for by Article 283 of the penal code and subject, as we will see, to change by the Berlusconi Government in 2006. On the basis of the original text of Article 283 of the Criminal Code, Loggia Propaganda 2 (the so-called Loggia P2) was considered illegal, of which Senator Silvio Berlusconi himself was a member. On 25 January 2006, the parliamentary majority, led by Berlusconi, approved an amendment to Article 283 of the Criminal Code, reducing the minimum imprisonment from 12 to 5 years and including as constituent elements of the case punishable by acts of violence. The previous text was as follows: "Anyone who commits a fact intended to change the Constitution of the State or the form of the Government by means not permitted by the constitutional order of the State shall be punished with imprisonment not less than 12 years old" (Article 283 of the Criminal Code before the legislative novella of 2006). On the other hand, the text following the amendment is as follows: "Anyone who, by violent acts, commits a direct and suitable act to change the Constitution of the State or the form of Government, shall be punished with imprisonment not less than five years." (This is the new text.) This change was an expression of a very little reformist will, but very much to protect those who work within the organs of the State. It should be remembered that the original case of crime, aimed at protecting our Constitution, was introduced by the constituent Assembly itself by law of November 11, 1947, n. 1317. This integration was justified by the new constitutional structure of the State, as well as the need to fully protect the delicate mechanism referred to in Article 138, heart and core of our Constitution, protecting not only from violent activities, but also from activities carried out in violation of the constitutional order through the distorted use of prerogatives of those who have institutional roles. Very often the Constitution is used as a lever for purposes far from it. Too often it is invoked by distorting its value and meaning. You will not want me to, Mr President, but the Constitution came to the fore in this Chamber to block a parliamentary debate on an international treaty. President Grasso remembers that, but so do the other colleagues, I presume. I am referring to the Franco-Italian international treaty on the construction of a railway line. This ignorance of the dictates of our fundamental Charter is certainly not a good feature that qualifies you as suitable for amending the Constitution. And to delegate only some of you, of course, is not a better guarantee but a tragedy announced. I fear the time when you will go to modify this article, because it will be the grinder, the break of the seal. Well, our Constitution is a very delicate creature, already considered as an obstacle by the Loggia Propaganda 2 by Licio Gelli. It is regrettable that few people remember the episode of 2006 that I already mentioned: the Berlusconian majority had the article that was supposed to defend Article 138 of our Constitution modified. For the inattentive to my first part of the exhibition I refer to Article 283 of the penal code, on the basis of which the so-called Loggia P2 was considered illegal, of which Silvio Berlusconi himself was a member. But this rule could hinder possible attacks on the Constitution from within the palace. Some so-called constitutional barricades, to protect the Constitutional Charter itself, have already fallen as a result of the legislative blows inflicted by a subject that will soon have to get away from this House, by a subject that still arouses admiration and gratitude in PD (cited by Letta: "A great!'). We have noticed, dear President-in-Office of the Council: your admired and grateful smile to Berlusconi after the intervention of the latter, which allowed the maintenance in life of the current Government is a real democratic shame, and it is also a terrible omen, I dare say. Dear Senators, reflect on the text they have proposed, but first listen to that part of the report by the President of the Committee on Constitution, Meuccio Ruini, who accompanied the draft Constitution of the Italian Republic. These words refer only to Article 138 of the Constitution: The simplest criteria have also been adopted for the constitutional revision process, without recourse to the systems of approval in two successive legislatures or the automatic dissolution of the Chambers after they approved the revision at first reading. There will have to be two readings, and with a significant interval ("to think about it"), in the same legislature. If the Constitution is to be rigid, too cumbersome and complicated a revision procedure would hinder the path to a completion of the constitutional building; that we want both in its great definitive walls and have life for centuries but it may be necessary to put your hands on the developments, not yet exactly predictable, of constitutional systems. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, before the final approval of Article 138 of the Constitution, there was even talk of revision of the Constitution and adoption of constitutional laws through a mechanism that even provided for the intervention of two legislatures or the dissolution of the Chambers between first and second reading. But have you read the text presented to you? Have you understood what this Committee is? A mini-constituent assembly that melts like snow in the sun at every legal approval? A new Parliament? The embryo of the new and future constitutional structure, as intended by the Loggia Propaganda 2, 3 or 4? How will it affect the quorums of the Chambers' sessions? I would like to make you think about this. On the enormous discretion of the President of the Committee, who, by setting the dates of the meetings, may also affect the work of the Chambers by reducing, as he pleases, the legal number of meetings of the Chambers themselves. This is set out in Article 1 (7) of the text under observation, which reads: At the meetings of their respective Assemblies, the members of the Committee absent, as they are engaged in the work of the Committee, are not counted for the purposes of the quorum. Believe me, in fact, believe the Constitutional Court: the deadly attacks on the Basic Charter of the State are taking place slowly. The constituent assembly, even before the definitive entry into force of our Constitution, wanted in advance to defend it, precisely, with the law November 11, 1947, n. 1317, which introduced the crime of attack on the Constitution, because it knew that the attack could be non-violent, but carried out through means not permitted by the constitutional order of the State, as stated in article 283 of the penal code before the intervention of the defenders of the Loggia P2. Ladies and gentlemen, the attacks on the Constitution are taking place slowly and the constituent Assembly had understood it, it had anticipated it. The same cumbersome quota of the affairs manageable by the Committee appears to be a slap in the face of the so-called "think about" indicated in the report of the President of the Constitution. If it were not for the intervention of the Loggia P2 on Article 283 of the Criminal Code it would be found in the conduct of those who have drafted the text now in question the case of attack on the Constitution through methods not allowed. In conclusion, I repeat that in the constitution there was even talk of revision of the Constitution and adoption of constitutional laws through a mechanism that provided for the intervention of two legislatures or the dissolution of the Chambers before the second reading. Do you understand, dear colleagues, what did the constituent Fathers who wrote this part of the Constitution mean? Were they too protective? I don't think so! Were they afraid of ad hoc changes? More likely! The revision of the Constitution and the formation of constitutional laws should not have been the prerogative of a majority; let alone a majority such as the current one, anomaly all Italian and this thanks to King George, true and current President of the Council of Ministers, true opponent of the constitutional barricades as was also the original article 283 of the penal code. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u157	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u158	Did you see that I came back to listen?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u159	Mr President, I will begin my speech with a brief permission to reply to some of my colleagues who have made comments in the direction of the 5 Star Movement. I will proceed in chronological order and I will leave with my colleague, Senator Zanettin (who is not present tonight, but I hope that colleagues will be able to report), who in his speech says that the 5 Star Movement falls into contradiction with its principles of direct democracy and transparency, hindering presidentialism which, according to the authoritative opinion of his colleague, would instead express it. Probably, we could also discuss the issue raised by my colleague and understand how presidentialism can be combined with the exercise of direct democracy, if we were in a truly democratic country where the life of the community is based on many shared values and few written rules. But, alas, rules in the desert of values proliferate in our country. In this scenario, which perhaps escapes the short-sighted eye of my colleague, it is clear that presidentialism would be a source of misfortune that Italians - we are sure - want to do without. Then the colleague continues and intercepts another contradiction, always according to his authoritative opinion, and says, more or less, that the 5 Star Movement is against corruption and corruption is the result of old laws. Now, allow me to express ideally a long and thunderous laugh typical of my land of Emilia, for this is the only comment I feel can be reserved for a statement of this kind... [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . . which, probably, is the result of that process recalled by my colleague Maria Mussini who sees a person engaged in distributing faults when he wants to avoid a healthy self-analysis. Finally, Mr Zanettin's reference to the comments made by the JP Morgan business bank on the quality of our Constitution, along with others from southern Europe, makes us shudder. On the Constitution we believe that the only person protected to judge and amend can only be the people, that is, the whole of all citizens who, because of their dignity and an unbearable power of criticism, can express themselves on the quality of the constitutional dictation. Mr Zanettin's remarks were followed by those of Senator Bisinella, to whom, evidently, the night did not bring advice, if this morning she threw herself without parachute on the ground of cat-pardism, accusing us of being its new bearers, the renovators. Said by the representative of a political force that, in the crucial phases in which our country could really renew itself, has been complicit in preserving the status quo and, indeed, in strengthening the Oligarchic party model that gave us an army of nominations, is at least bizarre. Finally, Mr Carraro, when he complains that the rules governing the functioning of Parliament are obsolete, gives me the opportunity to make the following observation instead. The problem is not the obsolescence of Parliament's rules. The problem is that the above rules are very often poorly applied, and I would like to give an example: the work done in the Commissions, which could actually function as excellent working groups, because in those places we often manage to strip away ideologies - those which are obsolete - and to work on the substance and content, is often underused or badly used, because of the perennial emergency in which we find ourselves having to work. Having said that, I will turn to a comment on the information of Minister Quagliariello, having seen in it numerous paradoxes. The first paradox is that of haste. We have read that, in this process, Parliament remains absolutely sovereign in its ability and prerogatives. But then it is said that the goal is to bring home the reform quickly, fast times that do not fit with the parliamentary dialectic. We have been told that the Commission of Wise Men is composed of lawyers and scholars with different cultural and political-institutional sensibilities, but among all these sensibilities it does not seem to be understood the sensitivity to the constitutional dictation, to the point that all the reform process we are discussing is based on irrital procedures invented ad hoc and by derogation - a word that today is very fashionable - from the system of weights and counterweights established by the constituent Fathers, in order to avoid that a group of people more or less wise could put their hands in haste and fury to the Charter founded on our civil coexistence, without the absolute guarantee that the changes would take place in compliance with the rules and minorities. I am referring not only to the minorities present in this House, but also to all those social and cultural minorities which are not represented in this Parliament, and the fact of abstentionism proves their existence. These social and cultural minorities could have expressed themselves more easily, if the debate on such sensitive issues had involved the entire public opinion, and not only a small group of essays, whose wisdom cannot, however, be a legitimization to the self-referentiality of the political class, to the hastyness or to the use of procedures ad reformam, invented of sound plant in order to make a process that, in the intentions of the constituent Fathers, had instead to be accurate and would have needed time. The Minister made us aware that the Commission would deepen the reasons underlying the fragility of our political and institutional system, without grasping the paradox that the Commission is not a solution to this fragility, but is the most mature and tangible result of it. In other words, the paradox is that we are trying to solve the evils of politics by creating a bigger one and establishing a precedent that in the future will allow anyone, with the most varied intentions, to invoke crises, states of institutional emergency, natural disasters, invasions of grasshoppers and alarms of various kinds as shortcuts to cut and paste pieces of Constitution with the same ease that could be used to put hand, perhaps, to a regulation of condominium. But the comparison is probably improper, because with regard to the condominium regulations the administrators diligently observe the rigid procedures of modification provided for by the civil code. No leader-condom, in fact, would dream of having a new regulation approved by a group of wise men chosen between friends and acquaintances, although potentially esteemable in their wisdom. Mr Quagliariello then opens another remarkable paradox when he talks about bipolarism in a tripolar Parliament. I understand the process of removal and the attempt to escape from a painful reality: one escapes in the illusion of still living in bipolarism, but - alas - Minister we are also in this Parliament and also with important numbers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But perhaps he was referring to another bipolarism, because the two poles of old have now joined forces for a questionable interpretation of the sense of responsibility, which led them to consider the electoral mandate as a blank cheque where to write what they want and not as a bill that citizens are already ready to collect in the next electoral deadlines, when they will be able to express through the vote their judgment on the current alchemies of political engineering that have produced agreements that are far too wide, so wide that, perhaps, in the danger of breaking, they have confined themselves to the center giving rise to a monolith of Christian demochristian memory. [[Live applause from the M5S Group]] A further paradox is the strange mixture of simplification and authoritarianism described as the horizon of this reform, where the reduction of the number of parliamentarians is not accompanied by a redevelopment of the dialectical process that makes the comparison between different ideas deeper, constructive and oriented to the common good, but appears as one among the many instruments functional to the decision-making of a majority "takes everything," which makes the beautiful and the bad weather, without too many complications, until it is riding. Among these instruments we find a confidence that even monocamerals would want, as if the bicameral one had not already defiled the function of Parliament, with the continuous use and abuse of the vote of confidence by the last governments, including the one currently in office. The Minister - you - has also informed us that there is still an urgent need to correct the current electoral law, and it is paradoxical to hear this statement from a politician who has been sitting in Parliament since 2006 and who in 2013 is part of a political formation and a government that have continued to bypass the crucial hub of the electoral law using it to the need as a pretext for emergency to form technical governments or broad understandings, but in fact ignoring this issue to focus on this great work of constitutional engineering that is fascinating, yes, many wise men, but is also worrying several citizens. Meanwhile, the electoral law invoked by the Minister in his information lies abandoned to his destiny of obsolescence by those who had sworn and perjured that he would rewrite it. We are all waiting for a superior intervention to give us a new one, perhaps from a speaking bush that already gives us engraved on marble boards, as happened for the tables of the law delivered to Moses. Waiting for a miracle that gives the country a new electoral law, about which everyone talks without anyone taking care of it among the benches of the government, we record the speculation with which the accelerator is pushing on constitutional reforms. In the face of this spectacle we could say that an aspirin is being administered to a terminally ill person, but we would only say so if we were sure that this constitutional reform could be assimilated to a bland and useless medicine and not to a powerful poison for our democracy. The Minister argues in his information that the risk of recourse to broad agreements, even in the next legislatures, can only be avoided through a constitutional revision (and here I give her a Nobel Prize ad honorem). However, I would like to express the conviction that, from 2005 until now, the authority and stability of the institutions have not been put at risk by a Constitution that someone has an interest in describing as obsolete, but by the loss of credibility of the institutions themselves for the bleak spectacle they have provided us, by an electoral law renamed "porcellum" and by the absence of a vote of preference, which is another of our paradoxes. It is paradoxical, in fact, that the restoration of the vote of preference for the political elections is not recognized as a fundamental step to restore to politics dignity, representation and legitimacy, but only as one of the many options taken into consideration by the so-called sages. The last paradox of my list (which is perhaps the largest of those we are living in this House) is that today the hands on our Charter are putting the same political class that produced, in 2005, an electoral law defined by its own author as a "porcata" and that, in the face of this serious historical and political responsibility, does not yet want to run to the shelter, even if late, but is preparing to put a patch worse than the hole, with the risk, more than concrete, of flanking the "porcata" law" a constitutional reform that, with good peace of Minister Quagliariello, has all the premises to turn out to be a filthy. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u160	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u161	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in this debate it is right to reaffirm, in symbolic terms but also substantial terms, the position of the reform and change front. I respect everyone's opinions, but I believe that the initiatives, including the flagrant demonstrations that have been there in recent days, aimed at saying no to every amendment of the Constitution, are wrong, inappropriate and harmful to the country. I say this with reference not so much to the critical speeches being made in this House, but also - precisely - to the gatherings and initiatives that newspapers, committees and bishops of constitutional conservatism have animated in recent days. We're late, seriously late. I am not referring so much to the attempts of the various Bicamerals, but I am also thinking of the reform that was launched by Parliament in 2005 and that, unfortunately, a confirmed referendum failed. If it had come into force, the number of Members of Parliament would have been reduced for 4-5 years, the perfect bicameralism revised and more prominent elements of direct democracy introduced. But it is useless to cry about the milk that has been poured out: that matter remains in the proceedings of parliamentary debates, of the democratic life of the country. However, I do not think we should miss this opportunity today. The political horizon is quite gloomy and complex. We do not know whether the times of politics and the legislature will allow us to carry out a process of revision of the Constitution which, as we well know, imposes certain times. The draft law we are passing is trying in some way to rationalise the progress of this process without distorting the principles of Article 138 of the Constitution, but introducing elements of simplification. Well, I hope that this process can go on because I believe that, in the substantive debate that we are going to have, even the most advanced demands of direct democracy and presidentialism can have the right to citizenship. Then we will discuss the forms of the premiere, of presidentialism, of which we know the differences well and I do not want at this time, after hours and hours of discussion, to repeat arguments that many of us have been supporting in the political and constitutional debate for some time. But, Minister Quagliariello, I have shared his affirmation of these days of discussion between the House and the Senate in reference to the electoral law, which represents an inescapable node. I personally think of it as you said in Parliament. We know that there are urgent and immediate deadlines. On 3 December there will be the Constitutional Court's ruling and the adjustments to the law in force under the observation of the Court itself. But it is more logical to introduce amendments to the current law that respect the exceptions raised and concerning the majority prize and the thresholds, which we discussed in the other legislature in many parliamentary and political fora, dear Senator Finocchiaro, dear Minister Quagliariello, without being able to find a solution in order to prevent an electoral law today as a whole from preceding an overall reform of the institutions, from which then the definitive electoral law will have to derive. The model of State and Government is not indifferent to the electoral law. If we go towards more advanced forms of direct democracy, presidentialism, semi-presidentialism and elective premierate, the electoral law may be of a certain kind; if the choices are others, the consequences will be different. I personally am for bipolarism, for a healthy electoral competition between alternative sides. The current difficult, complex phase of coexistence stems from the fact that no one has achieved a majority in Parliament, and so there is a clash on every subject; also on the law of stability, which already provokes debate when the final text is not yet in place. In this regard, I have asked my colleagues in my parliamentary group to abstain from the contest of the opposing statements, because when we have the text, as it always has been, each Group will come forward with requests for amendment, will have priorities, will have requests and will have categories of reference that it will have to represent in the parliamentary debate, but taking into account that this Government does not represent our ideals and our proposals in an exclusive way, nor those of other parties. It is a transitional formula which, at this stage, must also allow the introduction of reforms of the Constitution, and therefore we need an electoral law which follows the final one, except for the safeguards that must be introduced quickly. I believe that this is the process to be followed and that Minister Quagliariello himself has recalled in recent days. In fact, it means not circumventing the issues of the electoral law, but adapting it to emergencies in order to prevent the Constitutional Court from in fact replacing Parliament in legislative activity and to prevent the opportunity to continue this legislature, to make reforms of the Constitution and to allow the definitive adaptation of the electoral law according to the model of state and government that will be chosen. All this in a plant that, I hope, is bipolar and not a return to proportionalism, a plant that is not capable of returning to a political swamp where there is no comparison between projects, but a sort of condemnation of a permanent paralyzing compromise. I think it is better to risk winning or losing than to be part of the party of the permanent victory of a neo-proportionalism that risks taking on the state, the choices, the prospects and everything that needs to be done in terms of the economy and other plans. I stop to express this wish which I wanted to leave in this further passage of discussion of the reforms. We have seen so many in the previous parliamentary term. We also approved, as a symbolic gesture, the rules for the direct election of the President of the Republic. We knew that it would be difficult to reach the fourth step, but it was a way to mark the path and to say what are the goals and goals, the illusions - I hope not - that many of us feed. I should like to conclude by making a personal remark: nobody here is censoring anyone. This is a Parliament in which everyone can speak, and if a senator wants to read someone's appeals read them, but reading from a well-known comedian who has been censored a Nobel prize because someone would have wanted to bring his mobile phone and paste it to the microphone thinking in this way to contribute to the debate is unacceptable! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] This is the kingdom of democracy and not telephone charades; the Funny Mystery celebrate it elsewhere! [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u162	In view of what I read yesterday in this House, the communicative aspects are the broadest and concern the whole of the House and the whole of Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u163	Mr President, kind Minister, the Government, by expelling Parliament, with inexplicable haste and in the absence of transparency, has initiated a special procedure derogating from the current Article 138 of the Constitution, in order to carry out a radical constitutional reform - they tell us - and entrusting to a group of 40 essays (among other things it is legitimately questionable how they were chosen) the task of grasping the regulatory aspects likely to change the new institutional structure. The Government, with the thrust of the Head of State, has initiated a constitutional revision process that certainly was not in the minds of the constituent Fathers when the text of the Constitution was thought. We want this House to approve, at second reading, the draft Constitutional Act No 813-B, which, in fact, is intended to distort the ratio of Article 138 by setting up a Committee to rewrite a large part of our fundamental Charter. The constitutional reform, says President Napolitano, is a technical issue, the task of refined lawyers, or essays, as if to claim that the safety valve placed in the penultimate article of our Charter is a bland instrument and not instead patrimony and protection of Italy and future generations. On this occasion too, Parliament, which should be the protagonist of this affair, assumes a marginal and weak role, a victim aware of a sick policy, which long ago ago ago because it was unable to reflect on itself, exercising a role of merely a material executor of the Government. The example of lawmaking through the conversion of decrees-laws is the tangible proof of the pathology of this policy. The people and citizens, again, will have no voice and will once again suffer the unreasonable choices of those who should be at their service. The 5 Star Movement states that a process of constitutional revision must invest all the Italian people, strictly following the dictates of Article 138 of the Constitution still in force, with the protagonists of Parliament and the citizens. The Constitutional Charter is the past, the present and the future of the Italian people, it is the highest expression of territorial belonging and of sharing ethical and legal principles recognized as such by the people themselves. At its meeting on 6 June, the Council of Ministers approved a constitutional bill to amend, by atypical procedure, the Titles I on Parliament, II on the President of the Republic, III on the Government and V on Regions, Provinces and Municipalities in accordance with the mechanism laid down in Article 138. It suspects the urgency and obvious lack of transparency and the sloppyness of the maneuver. To argue that Article 138 will only be amended is a simplification that does not convince because already the draft law in question, approved on 6 June, is an instrument not in line with the very dictates of the article. This bill should provide for a revision conducted according to constitutional logic and not blatantly in their contradiction, as is already happening in the facts. This reform would require the use of all the instruments of participatory democracy already actually present in our Charter. The logic that emerges from this conduct, on the other hand, suggests a presidentialism in contradiction with the model of participatory democracy. This will give value to one man. The derogation from our Charter, which is intended to be implemented, in addition to not being in line with the procedure laid down in Article 138, does not honour all those who, with great sacrifices, including human sacrifices, have suffered and desired with love and ardour the freedom that was born back in January 1948. We have had the immense fortune to inherit a precious asset and now we must do nothing but maintain and defend the freedom conquered and consecrated in our Constitution, without party colors, without further interests other than those of the Italian people, because the people are sovereign. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u164	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u165	Mr President, the importance of the Constitution has long been known: Herodotus said that the Constitution guarantees the wealth and future of a society. I think that what today could be misinterpreted as obstructionism, but that we like to identify as constructionism, is the highest respect of the Constitution, understood not only as respect for the constituent Fathers and our country, but precisely as the right of citizens to be self-determined, to choose their own Parliament, their own Government and also, as parliamentarians, to exercise the full right to legislate. Today, practically everything has been said, even with regard to the concerns that an amendment of the Constitution can create and, therefore, to those doubts that arise every time that legitimacy and legality, meaning by legitimacy the adequacy to concrete expectations and, by legality, compliance with abstract rules, do not coincide. When these do not coincide, the norm can be respected, but the content fails. I sincerely believe that changes are necessary and time-consuming, but I do not think that the 5 Star Movement is rigid and closed to a change in the Constitution, what gives rise to concern is the way, the principle and, above all, the fact that it is not clear where the amendment goes. Is it obscure and how can a citizen share a change that is not able to learn, verify and see? Calamandrei - today he has been quoted several times - spoke of the Constitution as "great unfinished." I sincerely see the physical, environmental, cultural, social and political landscape of our country and I know that in many places this beautiful Constitution is unfinished. I would like to emphasise an article that is fundamental to me, Article 9, which solemnly enshrined the indissoluble union of historical, artistic and landscape heritage and has transformed into a project an ethical and political role that this union has played in the history of Italy. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly expanded this very original vision by becoming aware that the first and most essential common good is the environment, whose protection, in the name of the public interest, is an essential condition for the very existence of a modern democracy. I would like to point out that that great project, the Constitution, born of an Italy in tears and rags, we have so far not been able to translate it into practice; we have not yet understood it and translated it into practice, but we are about to modify it. Article 9 is important because it promotes culture, scientific research and technology, protects the landscape, the historical and artistic heritage of the nation. This article is essential to the legality of a Republic, one and indivisible (Article 5) and relates to other articles of the Constitution. It should, for example, be understood as an expression of those indispensable duties of political, economic and social solidarity of Article 2 and addressed, like others, to the full development of the human personality (Article 3), linked to freedom of thought and speech (Article 21), freedom of art, science and teaching (Article 33), to the centrality of the state public school (Article 34). The protection of the landscape contributes to the formation of the concept of the environment, as a primary constitutional value, converging with the protection of health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community (Article 32). According to the Constitution, the common good does not compress, but limits the rights of individuals and businesses, i.e. private property. The social function must be ensured (Article 42), and freedom of enterprise cannot be carried out in conflict with social usefulness, in such a way as to harm security, freedom and human dignity (Article 41). Is it not that perhaps we want to change Article 41 for the worse - I would be rather concerned about that - so that freedom of enterprise may run counter to social usefulness or harm security, freedom and human dignity? Is that what we want to write in our Constitution? Our Constitution was and is in tune with the great cultural trends of our time. "Ethics and aesthetics," as Wittgenstein said, "are one thing" and "ethics" must be a condition of the world, such as logic." We must react against indifference, which kills democracy, we must react against the real anti-politics, which is certainly not ours. The anti-politics is that of the markets, to which every day the right and the left are genuflected: it is the markets that limit the guarantee of public freedom and civil rights. We want to recover the Community spirit, thinking of freedom, equality and the right to work: this is also an unfulfilled right, today more than ever. Culture cannot be separated from the complex production activities of a people. In order to conduct this battle, the best weapon is the Constitution, the community of citizens source of the laws and holder of the rights, the norm that makes the law of ethics and universal inspiring principles. That is why the Constitution must be safeguarded, that is why we must reflect, that is why every mistake and every hasty change must be avoided. We must gain sovereignty in the name of the Constitution, we must legitimise this representative democracy and then, if possible, aspire to a direct democracy. It is true: there are many shadow cones in this unfinished Constitution. I am thinking, for example, of the landscape, of the cases in which the protection of the landscape itself squeals with urban rules and, with which cities and the quality of our daily life are not protected. The Constitution can also be changed, but according to the rules, considering that the various articles must not constitute a litany of principles detached from each other, but must follow its spirit, as has often been pointed out by several judgments. The Constitutional Court has worked a lot in this direction: think, for example, of the judgment in which it is stated, precisely, that the protection of the landscape must not be subordinate to other values, such as those of an economic nature, but must be able to influence deeply the political and social order. Our Constitution has not only remained unfinished, but has also often been betrayed and dismantled. So we ask for an act of responsibility and reflection, to consciously change it all together. It is true: the Constitution is a great unfinished one, but perhaps, in a certain sense, it is good that it is so, because the Constitution must be implemented every day. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u166	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u167	Mr President, Minister, citizens, like the 5 Star Movement, we have tried in every possible way, in the interests of Italian citizens, to bring this process of constitutional revision back on the road of legality, because the Constitution belongs to everyone and because we believe that such a process should have followed the normal procedure of examination. But the one party responded by sanctioning us. Politically, however, certain people are well aware of it from punishing the pianists who crowd and humiliate this House every day! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Having given the Government a facilitated amending power and preventing individual parliamentarians from subjugating the proposals of the Government or the Committee represents a diktat that mortifies the institutions and its members. The Constitution cannot be changed by a pseudo decree-law. In this case, not only has the Government taken over the right to promote reforms of the Constitution, but it has done so by trying to compress parliamentary sovereignty through limits, brakes and openly unconstitutional obstacles. The body empowered to reform the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, is one and only, written precisely in the same Charter, namely the Republican Parliament, in its own seats, already governed by the parliamentary regulations, to which the electoral citizens are added, by virtue of the possibility of a popular referendum confirmation. President emeritus of the Constitutional Court Valerio Onida said: The real problem is the merit of the reforms, on which this procedural law says nothing. And the only sensitive point on the procedural level is whether you intend to approve different constitutional laws (on bicameralism, on the Regions, on the form of government) or you aim to deliberate a single law, a package of reforms to propose to the Assemblies and then to the voters, putting them in front of a take or leave. Assemblies and especially voters should be free to accept one or more reforms and reject others, without being blackmailed by the whole or nothing. I wonder if he remembers his words today. I believe that citizens should know what you are trying to do: not just a maintenance operation, but in fact we are talking about a genuine rewriting of the Charter, which puts at stake the rule of law of every citizen and the future of our democracy. To do this, the government is asking for a blank proxy. Do you want to arrive at a constitutional sponge strike, on the mandate of the single party that, fear of losing power, obtained the approval of the President of the Republic? Yes, because in his last statements there were phrases that reassured us that the Constitution could be changed easily. All the constituent Fathers are dead, and today I do not see worthy successors on the Committee of Wise Men. Can people who are unable to conduct a university competition by following the rules assume the right to rewrite the Constitution? I don't think so. That is why I shall use the time available to me to refresh the memory to certain obtuse politics, and I will do so by reading some excerpts of speeches. The first one was a long time ago. It is a 1975 message, which the then president Giovanni Leone sent to the Chambers. That's what he said: Our Constitution outlines a regime of freedom, democracy and social justice that focuses on the principle of respect and valorization of the dignity of the human person, through the wider freedom of expression of thought, political organization, trade union association; the consecration of the principle of equality that the State must promote through the realization of fundamental social rights; and the definition of institutional arrangements that, by being a pivot on Parliament, aim to guarantee the citizen, in a widespread and rich pluralism, the effective participation in the life of the State. If the Constitution is this harmonious set of norms and institutions, the democratic regime that follows must be the exemplary testimony. Yet a situation of discomfort dominates the country and characterizes the crisis, whose solution must be sought precisely in the principles and institutions of the Constitutional Charter and in their full implementation. A system like ours, which for about thirty years has been able to withstand the impact of exceptional events and threats to the process of economic and moral elevation of the country and which has been able to create and guarantee a legislative and civil fabric of very high democratic content, does not require a substantial reworking but requires, as far as institutions and norms are concerned, its more organic and balanced implementation in all constitutional, political and social articulations and potentialities. More recent (18 July 2006) is the bill signed by Mancino, Villone, Manzella, Maccanico, Zavoli, Sinisi and Binetti in whose report reads: Ladies and gentlemen, the transition in 1993 from the system proportional to that of the majority for the election of the two Chambers, in addition to producing, together with other causes, a strong push to bipolarize the political groups, has also provoked a crisis of the rigidity of our Constitution. As is well known, the rigid nature of the Constitutional Charter represents, together with the independence of the guarantee bodies (President of the Republic and Constitutional Court), the most robust garrison to prevent the Constitution from becoming an instrument of the policy of the winning coalition in the general elections. Enzo Cheli recently stated that "the Constitution belongs to (...) all citizens and must therefore be removed from the availability of the majority, indeed it must operate essentially as a system of limits to the majority" (the Constitutional State, Roots and Perspectives, Naples, Scientific Editorial, 2006, page 15). In order to achieve this objective, the procedure for revising the Constitutional Charter (Article 138 of the Constitution) must be seriously different from that adopted for ordinary legislation. The procedural worsening provided for in the provision now cited has proved inadequate since 1994 to guarantee the superiority of the Constitution over ordinary law, since the new electoral laws allowed to reach the absolute majority of the members of the two Chambers even to coalitions that represented only the strongest minority in the electoral corps. This situation has not changed with the last electoral law, which still provides for a majority award under a system based on the proportional principle. Moreover, comparative law includes experiences in which the characteristics of the proportional system adopted favour the achievement of majority results; just give the example of Spain. In the end, Article 138, with the current discipline, tempts majorities to act alone in the modifications of the Constitution that the Constituent had entrusted to a resolution based on a broader consensus, in the context of a truly proportional system, in the rules and in the results, such as that accepted on the agenda Giolitti. In fact, to this temptation they have yielded both the center-left majority, with the reform of Title V (Constitutional Law 18 October 2001, n. 3) in the XIII legislature, and that of center-right in the XIV, with the parliamentary approval of a very large text amending the II Part of the Constitution, then not confirmed by the electoral corps in the referendum of 25-26 June 2006. (...) This bill has a similar precedent in the Constitutional Law No 2115 presented to the House in the 12th legislature at the initiative of Mr Bassanini and Mr Elia, to which were added the signatures of very authoritative parliamentarians, such as Mr Napolitano, Mr Mattarella, Mr Veltroni and Mr Fassino. That proposal could not be examined for the early dissolution of the Chambers decreed by the President of the Republic at the beginning of 1996. It should also be remembered that the content of the constitutional bill that we submit to your examination has been considered of priority importance in the programme submitted, according to electoral law, to the electoral judgment of the parties gathered in the center-left coalition led by Romano Prodi. It is therefore necessary, at the beginning of the 15th Republican legislature, to start the process of a reform of high guarantee significance, in the context of constitutionalism accepted in the Constitutional Charter. That's what you all said. You've changed your mind, why? I leave the logical conclusion to the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u168	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. Because of his absence, he's supposed to have given up.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u169	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lepri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u170	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members who have resisted and the Minister who has done his duty: we know that he has struggled and, therefore, the merit must be acknowledged. In the same way, we must acknowledge the merit of the Commission's work, which at first glance many of us saw with some doubt and suspicion, and we must admit that. In fact, the work that the Minister presented yesterday is welcome, very timely and allows us to work - in particular it will allow the Parliamentary Committee - with an important basis for simplifying the alternatives on which we will be called upon to choose. I would like to say that the Parliamentary Committee just confirmed - I hope, I hope and I am convinced that it will be so in the next few hours - at this point it will no longer be able to wait, because the urgency that the Senate has wished to attribute to this important decision on institutional reforms and the presence of several draft laws leads us to believe that by now there are all the conditions for no longer postponing a game for too long. In this sense we all hope not to play the game of goose again, but obviously at this point we must look forward with conviction. Let us start with the common points that the Minister's report has in some way prefigured among the various alternatives; moreover, in the light of today's debate and also within my party, I believe that there are points in common with a rather wide sharing, not only within my party, I repeat, but probably within the majority or a large part of it. There is a broad consensus on overcoming the perfect bicameralism. There is a broad consensus on reducing the number of Members. There is a broad sharing on the simplification of decision-making processes, often too baroque. There is a sharing of attention to a stronger relationship with the European Parliament, as it is clear from our point of view that it is difficult for us to speak authoritatively from the point of view of the biunivocal report in relation to legislative activity. There is broad agreement with the limitation of the urgent decree. Also on the changes to Title V I feel I can believe that the work is not everything to be done, but that there is, at least from the point of view of consensus, a broad sharing, for example, on overcoming the overlaps of role between the State and the Regions, as well as on the need to reduce the unjustified differences between the different Regions, particularly between those with ordinary statute and special statute. Just as, as far as electoral law is concerned, I think I am not mistaken in believing that there is a broad sharing in overcoming the principle of co-opting, as well as in the need to introduce barrier clauses that avoid the fragmentation and proliferation of owl lists or in any case not useful. In particular, from the debate in our party, even in these days, but also listening to authoritative voices from colleagues from other parties (I think about the interevent of Senator Della Vedova of Civic Choice), I think I can catch a slow but progressive coagulation around the idea that the formation of the majority is entrusted to voters and not to parties after the vote. Knowing on the same evening of the elections who will rule us, who has won and who has lost, is an opportune and increasingly mature and shared choice. Never again, in short, if possible, scenes like that, which I remember as a television viewer, who saw the last leader of the center-left who had the honour of ruling this nation admit candidly, on stage, together with other leaders of the center-left coalition, not to know if he had won or not. When he made sure that we had won, we had done it for very few votes, and then we all know how it ended. It is, therefore, awarded a majority prize - I think that this can be a path on which we can work - with the double turn, in any case or, in any case, if you do not get a significant percentage that legitimizes the prize. I also register a progressive coagulation in favour of the indication on the file of the name of the Prime Minister candidate. With more personal reflection, I think that in this case we can hopefully go towards a Prime Minister's Parliamentary Government which, at the same time, avoids the excesses of parliamentaryism, but also avoids the caesarism of the Executives. As I think I can read from the debate these days, but also from the important work that has been done in the first Commission and on which we have had important and detailed information during the reflections of these days, there are different and distant positions regarding the way in which Members can and should be chosen. The direct choice by the voter is different from the recognizability that one would like to attribute to the voter. Personally, I am in favour of preference: the stronger the Prime Minister's power is, the more necessary it is to prevent Parliament and Members from becoming little more than the Chief's servants. Finally, there is the question of the safeguard clause. On this subject too, I believe that the positions are distant; we will deliver them to the work of the Committee, but also, of course, to the work and to the parliamentary dialectic. I think it would be convincing to proceed immediately - if we succeed, of course - to an electoral change only if the changes were few and without changing the Constitution. I would be led to think (but this is, indeed, a very personal position) that it is worth speeding up on all constitutional changes, or to make electoral law first with few constitutional changes, so as not to be modified a second time. I shall conclude and thank you for your willingness to listen to your last speech. There is a lot of truth - I say this by addressing, in particular, my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement to whom I also say that I did not understand, beyond the more or less well-founded criticisms, what they would like in terms of institutional arrangements - in the resignation and criticism that emerged in this debate, all the more so when we look at the past. However, our task now is to look ahead and it is on these issues and on the courageous ability to self-form, even by deleting positions and privilege procedures, that we will be evaluated above all by the Italians. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u172	You have the option, exceptionally, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u173	D'ALI' (PdL). Mr President, I am paying for a short departure from the House with a reduction in time. I would simply like to reiterate our conviction that this path we have begun, having had the experience in past legislation of many attempts that have not been successful and being myself, moreover, convinced of the desirability of a complete modification of Part II of the Constitution (I have heard fears of possible interventions on the part I who are not, moreover, provided for by this constitutional law). I would like to thank the Minister for the work he has done and for the elegance with which he brought to Parliament the conclusions of the Commission he chaired, with a very small regret for what I am concerned with. My position is well known with regard to a need which, in my opinion, arises for a stronger reform of Title V of the Constitution: not only a new discipline of competences, of competing legislation, of the prevailing legislation, but also with courage to tackle precisely the organization of the institutions on the territory, of the local autonomy, the reduction of the number of centres of expenditure. In fact, the large public expenditure that currently afflicts the country and under which the country risks being crushed in large part is due to the excessive number of points of expenditure: 8,200 municipalities, of which the vast majority with less than 3,000 inhabitants; 110 Provinces (and intervention on the Provinces is not enough to raise public spending); a huge myriad of intermediate bodies. The same 20 Regions, in my opinion, are absolutely exorbitant compared to what would be the needs of this country; we have Regions that, by size, are inferior to a neighborhood of the big cities. Above all, we need a new design of competences through levels of government that can be assembled. For example, metropolitan areas, in my opinion, should be areas with exclusive legislative autonomy and with competences including those that today have municipalities, provinces and regions themselves. The citizen is entitled to a simplification of the contact points for his/her needs and points for the provision of services. If we do not start rationalization, if we do not refuse to suffer the pressures of the local policy that wants the parcelling of the agencies for the proliferation of places of possible employment, I do not think we will have worked to offer the country that service of total constitutional reorganization that it asks us. With regard to your determinations, I thank the Minister again and you, Mr President, for the time you have given me. I hope to be able to address these issues in the light of the debate that the Committee will have to address. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u174	The general debate is closed. After the wide-ranging debate today, I wish all my colleagues and especially the Minister, given his state of health, a healthy and robust constitution. [[Laughter of the President]] I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u177	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would simply like to call for the reply to Act 4-00581 of 18 July 2013 with which I am speaking - I am always reminding myself, but I would also remind all my colleagues and Italians that we are only spokesmen of the citizens - to be asked for further details on assignments and compliance with the rules of the procurement code. The citizens of Herculaneum want us to be clear. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u178	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-126.ana.u179	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9 a.m. and the second at 16 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.49 p.m.
