ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.40 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Alberti CASELLATI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,42) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u4	The Conference of Group Leaders meeting this morning took note of the opinion of the President, which was approved by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure at yesterday's sitting. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: In the light of the opinion of the Board for the Rules of Procedure of 7 June 2006, the powers granted to the Provisional Board for the Verification of the Powers referred to in Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall be extended until the formation of the Assembly for the parliamentary elections and immunities referred to in Article 19, for the purposes of paragraphs 2 and 3 of that Opinion only. When the vacation takes place, the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities takes note of the candidates taking over the senators who ceased their parliamentary mandate and informs the President of the Senate. On the basis of the Junta's communications, the President of the Senate proclaims senators the candidates identified by this procedure and communicates it to the Assembly, which takes note of it. The group leaders also took note of the Presidency's request to forward the indications of its representatives to the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities by 8 p.m. on Tuesday 16 April. The calendar of next week's work is integrated, in the afternoon session of Wednesday, April 17, with the vote on the resignation of Senator Giovanna Mangili and with an afternoon session, at 16, dedicated to a debate on the post earthquake reconstruction in Abruzzo and Emilia-Romagna. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes each. At the end of today's sitting, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is convened on matters relating to the integration of the Presidency Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u7	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President, I am speaking on the timetable and the order of business. I would first like to remind myself and to read Rule 5 of our Rules of Procedure in this House, which governs the election of the Secretary Senators. First of all, there are eight Secretaries, elected on the occasion of the inauguration of the Presidency Council. Then, in paragraph 2-a, the following is added: In order to ensure a more adequate representativeness of the Presidency Council, parliamentary groups which are not represented therein may request the election of other Secretaries. The Presidency shall decide on such requests. In any case, the number of additional Secretaries may not exceed two ics. On the basis of the application of this article and the adoption of the Act of the Presidency Council, the Conference of the Leaders, yesterday, had identified a session for the election of two Secretaries for Wednesday, with the request of three Groups which are not represented in the Presidency Council. Everything according to the Rules of Procedure, everything according to the rules. Before any other party colleague can remind me of the genesis of these groups, I do so: we have the Mixed Group, the LAG Group, of which some - only a few - are elected MPs in the LP, and the For the Autonomous Group, of which some MEPs are elected in the PD. Groups which are, however, legitimately formed at the beginning of the parliamentary term. All three had equal dignity to ask for the convocation of a session aimed at the election of two secretary senators. Two secretary senators for three requests, however, as there are three groups not represented in the Presidency Council. The Conference of Group Leaders you have convened, Mr President (I see the speech) refers only to a request received yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to amend the Rules of Procedure from the first part-sessions in the logic of increasing the number of Secretary Senators. It is a nod, but it does not mention the hypothesis or does not announce on the agenda the intention of the Presidency to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to address this very sensitive issue, for which I will allow myself to recall the precedents of the past legislature that have seen the Senate engaged for a year before arriving at a fair solution that would loosen the tensions of the House and satisfy the needs of representativeness of a Group that complained of its absence from the Presidency Council. At the Conference of Leaders - I am told - it was formulated, although not on the agenda, but this is part of the dynamics of relations between parties, even a request for changes to the agenda which had been adopted unanimously the day before. This amendment provided for the suspension of the election of the two Secretary Senators for next week pending the forecast of the addition of a third Secretary Senator to resolve the problems of all Groups requesting representation. At a time when the Presidency Council has addressed, today and on previous days, under its Presidency, the very sensitive issue of reducing the costs of this Parliament, of the Presidency Council, of functioning (we have also talked about reducing the salaries of officials and employees of the secretariats of the Presidency Council), instead we are discussing the issue of implementing Secretariat Offices to meet the legitimate needs of representativeness of a Group. Mr President, I have to take note of an anomaly with regard to issues that are raised at the same time: on the one hand, we are talking and working to reduce, on the other hand, we are asking the Council for the Rules of Procedure to be convened ad horas to assess the possibility of increasing the number of Secretaries. Having said that, the request for a change in the calendar did not find entry into the Conference of the Leaders because of the absence of a pre-constituted majority (it refers to me), so it was not carried forward. The solution to which it has accessed has been that of a convocation to horas of the Junta for the evening of today. Allow me, Mr President, with all the respect that I owe to your figure and to your office: a Committee on the Rules of Procedure convened in horas on issues which do not strictly relate to the functionality and activity of the House - something different if it were problems to be resolved immediately in order to move forward in legislative work - I am puzzled because I believe that the issue to be dealt with deserved and merits (the same goes for my Group members, who will say so in Junta) a more careful reflection. That subject may possibly be evaluated after the procedures provided for in our Rules of Procedure have been used, which provides for the presence of eight Secretaries plus two, i.e. the application of paragraph 2-a of Article 5. Well, the convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, of which we have taken note, provides for the discussion of the increase in the number of Secretary Senators, then the appointment of a third Senator Secretary, in order to ensure the representativeness of a Group not currently represented in the Presidency Council. Mr President, the issue of the increase in the number of Secretary Senators, beyond the 8th plus 2nd, in the previous parliamentary term - who has been reminded of this - has resulted in a year of debates, with very lively speeches by a group that was not represented. We did not say resist, but took note of those complaints, however the Rules provided for the appointment of 10 Secretary Senators and after a year of heated comparisons and complaints, pro bono pacis, with the agreement of all the Groups present in the Senate, after a year of debates - I repeat - there was an amendment of the Provisional Regulation (such as the one that would be proposed later) that provided for the increase in the number of secretariats of two units, so trying to keep firm the attention on the need not to alter the relationship between majority and opposition. This report does not yet exist, a report which, in my opinion, has legitimately prevented, in fact, the start of the standing committees, precisely because the logical assumption is lacking, namely the knowledge of the relationship between majority and opposition in the Commission and beyond. In the absence of this report, the convening of the Council for the Rules of Procedure and the addition of a third Senator Secretary by then would not be placed and justified in maintaining a principle which was shared not only by the Presidency Council unanimously in the previous legislature, but also by the proposers who called for an increase in the number of Secretary Senators. I would like to read the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure with regard to the elevation of the number of Secretary Senators, signed by my colleagues Belisario, Finocchiaro and D'Alia. This proposal provided for the appointment of two additional Secretary Senators because, Mr President, it was argued that if, as a result of the request referred to in paragraph 2 (i.e. the increase of a Secretary Senator) in the Presidency Council, the existing relationship between majority members and opposition members was altered, the majority parliamentary groups could have asked the Presidency Council to proceed with the election of another Secretary Senator. Which happened punctually: two secretary senators were elected because we knew who was majority and who opposed. Mr President, today we do not know who is majority and who is opposition. The fundamental act, the premise of that proposal (which was then adopted unanimously in the Presidency Council, I repeat, after a year of lengthy debates), fails when any proposal is made to increase the number of Secretary Senators by a single unit. I recalled this because I felt it was necessary to inform the House and to anticipate the position of my Group in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We believe that it is appropriate and necessary to comply with the obligations set out in the timetable for the election of two Secretary Senators on Wednesday. That's a fact. Accelerate the times, as it was intended to do with a summons to horas of the Council for the Rules of Procedure in the evening of today, in order to try to arrive at a modification of the Rules of Procedure within the day of Wednesday I do not agree, for what is mine, because I know very much that I want to deal with an extraordinary event that deserves, in my opinion, a reflection, a comparison, a attention I must say less than what is being dedicated to him. Far be it from me to deprive the Groups of representativeness, but we must frame this principle in the context of respect for certain rules of which they have declared themselves protagonists and authoritative representatives of the Democratic Party Group. This is the case of the former Holding Company, Senator Finocchiaro, who shared this principle so much that he had brought it into his proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure. That is why, Mr President, I felt that and I think it would be appropriate to give you my doubts, in anticipation of the fact that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, in my opinion, might not even be called to horas. In fact, we have been accustomed to summoning you at the time when it was essential to solve the problems inherent in the legislative activity of this House, not for the solution of issues whose foundations are lacking at this time because we do not have certain rules on the majority and opposition relationship. Mr President, I would not like to say that, while we are talking about cuts in Parliament's expenditure and costs, at the same time we are saying that we are running to Junta and this House to increase the number of senators and Parliament's costs. I do not believe that this is an interest either in the Presidency or in this House. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u10	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I too would like to speak on the timetable for the proceedings of this House and on the order of business. I fully agree with President Schifani's speech and I take the floor first of all to stigmatize what happened today at the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups which you chaired. In fact, today there was not a meeting of the Conference of Leaders, which was convened only in order to amend the timetable and the Rules of Procedure of the Senate that guarantees a transitional rule for the increase - as Senator Schifani has just reported - of the number of additional Secretary of the Chamber senators from two to three, therefore in contradiction with the provisions of paragraph 2-a of Rule 5, just mentioned. This paragraph reiterates that the number of Secretary Senators appointed by the groups not represented on the Presidency Council may not be more than two but not three. It is true that there have been precedents, but this has happened at a different historical moment, with the unanimous approval of all the parliamentary groups and - as has been reiterated - with a clear majority and opposition. This cannot happen now. We are opposed to the postponement of the already planned convening of the Assembly, next Wednesday, with the election of two Secretary Senators, and to the immediate convening of the Council for the Rules made by the President for today. This call is aimed solely at the integration of the two Secretary-General senators. Indeed, the Group of the Democratic Party wants to guarantee surreptitiously - this is my political criticism - both to the Mixed Group (which is occupied by SEL) and to the For the Autonomous Group a post as Senator Secretary of the Chamber each. It is clear that there is a great deal of expenditure, at a time when we have rightly cut transfers to the Groups, which will affect - I remind everyone - especially the costs of technical (and therefore not political) and secretariat staff. Therefore, we have already announced that we are opposed to the postponement of the convening of next week and to the urgent referral to the Council for the Rules of Procedure in order to increase the planned number of Secretary Senators from two to three in order to satisfy a political - political - request of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u13	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. First of all, I would like to reassure Senator Bitonci that there is no political request from the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party Group has spoken today in the Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups not to increase the volume of operating expenditure of the Senate. On the contrary, he asked for the decision already taken on the election of the two new Secretary Senators to settle an issue - in my opinion - quite important. I also think - and I say this very much with respect to President Schifani - that these matters must be resolved in the places where they must be resolved (the Conference of the Leaders, the Council for the Rules of Procedure). I also think that having raised them in this Chamber does not help to solve the problem we are discussing and it does not even help to carry out our work, at a very delicate stage in the Italian political life and in Parliament. I also agree with President Schifani that this is a very sensitive issue, but unlike him, I think that the President of the Senate has not only the right, but also the duty to convene the bodies that the Senate has endowed itself with, when he believes that this is useful and necessary for the proper functioning of the Senate itself. The subject we have and I put this morning, which did not concern the Democratic Party, but two important groups - and which, if I may, I would also call this Parliament 'historical' - that is, the Mixed Group and the Group for the Autonomies, was simply intended to underline their right to be represented in the Presidency Council, thus fulfilling the spirit, as well as the letter, of our Rules of Procedure. I refer to the spirit in which our Rules of Procedure mark the entire formation of the Presidency Council, when it indicates, in paragraph 2-a of Rule 5, the need to proceed with the election of new Secretaries in favour of groups which are not represented in the Council, although they are present in this House. Now, I would like to say a word about the 'fact', because it too can help to understand the legal substance of the matter raised by President Schifani. I would never have raised such a question in an ordinary situation. The groups were formed at the beginning of this legislature and we are talking about two groups that formed immediately: the Mixed Group and the Group for Autonomies. From the Mixed Group, at a certain point, a split came, which led to the formation of a third Group, which - this is true - entails costs for the Senate. It is this third group that brings additional costs to the Senate. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI)]] And I, when this happened, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party, did not raise any objections, nor did I raise any problems - although there were political and institutional problems - because it was the formation of that Group that modified the balance of the Presidency Council - not the Secretary of the Mixed Group, not the Secretary of the Group For the Autonomouss. I began to put questions on the short lines and I would never have wanted to raise them in this House if I had not been dragged to do so this afternoon, because the so-called LAG Group was born: this is what a Senator from that Group says. He said it in his public interview, never denied, which brings the date of March 27 (and there was time to deny it, if ever he had reported a word escaped by chance). Well, a Senator of the LAG says to those who ask him: "I will explain it to him immediately, our split: - I add, from the Mixed Group - "Misto was full of communists, then Schifani commanded us to infiltrate to rebalance its fate, but Zanda had more fresh troops than ours and won them. We had left the PdL for a technical fact, we left the Mixed for a political fact: we did not want De Petris, a communist, as President and we founded the LAG. All right, fellas. [[Comments from the PdL Group]] , so we could do anything. PALMA (PdL). Please. ZANDA (PD). If we don't like a group president, we'll fund two more, three more, four more. [[Repented comments from Senators Palma and Bruno.]] Senator Bruno, I'm just reconstructing the fact. I think this issue should not have been debated in this House; I think it was not a problem to be debated in this House. As President Schifani knows, as we have always tried to do in all circumstances, we have always tried to solve problems. Instead, the matter was brought to the House before the Rules of Procedure Board and it is therefore good that the Senate knows what we are dealing with. We are talking about a group which was born artificially at a later stage, and which would now like to prevent two historical groups, which have always been present in the Senate of the Republic, from having a representative on the Presidency Council. These two Groups are not from the Democratic Party, they are outside the PD, and I think they have the right to be present at the Presidency Council, and that is the issue I raised at the Conference of the Leaders, asking only for the decision to be postponed by a week in order to be able to study what technical solutions were possible. This postponement of a week was denied and forced the President of the Senate to try to find a legal and regulatory solution to this by summoning the Board for the Rules of Procedure. I am very surprised by the fact that there is a debate in the House on this matter, in these circumstances in the country and in Parliament. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, SCpI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u16	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, I believe that you and Mr Zanda have made a proposal of absolute common sense, that is, to invest the Committee on the Rules of Procedure in order to find a way out of this impasse, from this delicate issue. I would just like to reiterate that the For the Autonomies Group is a historical parliamentary group of this Senate, which already existed in the past legislatures, as well as the Mixed Group. We were even the first to set up ourselves on March 16, 2013, before all the other Groups. I therefore believe that we too have the right to be represented in the Presidency Council and it is absolutely not true that we have been elected in the ranks or lists of the Democratic Party: Senator Berger and I have been elected with the symbol of the SVP, Südtiroler Volkspartei; Senator Fravezzi with the UPT the Union for Trentino, Mr Lanièce with Union Valdôtaine; we have two senators for life among us. I believe that the Group for Autonomies is very respectful and we do not get involved in other contexts. In my view, this sensitive issue must not be the subject of a political confrontation; I also believe that it is not the time to tighten up these conflicts between us and I hope that in the coming days, or perhaps even tonight, the junta for the Rules of Procedure will find a solution to this problem which concerns not only us, but also our colleagues in the Mixed Group and the LAG Group. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI, PD and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u19	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Thank you, Mr President. Senator Zanda rightly says that we should be able to discuss certain things quietly, privately and in the short way; perhaps, however, in the time of streaming, that certain discussions take place publicly can serve to clarify our ideas and remind us of what happened. I will start by reminding you of something that probably due to its importance should be last remembered, but since the last intervention was that of Senator Zeller, I say to him that, of ten Senators of the Group For the Autonomies, there are six present as autonomists, so let's say, with some exceptions, because elected in colleges - Trentino-Alto Adige votes in a particular way - in which they were in alliance with the Democratic Party: let's say, therefore, that they are of the "simyl-automists", of the colored autonomists of "Piddiism." That Group, apart from the fact that it has the six autonomousists, also has the presence of two senators elected for life differently and of two other senators who, on the other hand, were elected in full title in the PD, because Senator Nencini was elected in the PD in the Marches and Senator Longo Fausto Guilherme was elected in the PD in South America. Remember that too, Senator Zeller! [[Applause from the LAG, PdL and LN-Aut groups.]] In the mood of memories, then, I would like to remind Senator Zanda - I see him busy, so I will remind the Presidency - that, when we joined the Mixed Group, we immediately noticed - and we had the full title - that Senator Bilardi was elected in Calabria with Grande Sud. We were elected to the Great South in the lists of the People of Liberty, then hosted, and the other two senators were elected to the MPA (Movement for the Autonomouss): the same subtle difference that is made by Senator Zanda for Senator Nencini. But Senator Barani is also elected as a socialist and therefore, at this point, when it comes to loans from the People of Freedom to the Great Autonomous Group, one must be removed. These things should be remembered because, apart from the numbers, the issue is political and in this sense, Mr President, in the sense that I have come to present to this Presidency what I thought were the right reasons, namely the fact that, having joined the Mixed Group, I have found the presence of seven senators elected to the SEL (Left Ecology Freedom): seven senators who, if the Rules were still in place, as amended in 2004, would have every right to make a Group. [[The President's notes.]] President, I understand that what I say may displease you much more than what Senators Zanda or Zeller have said, but a senator's duty is to speak to the Presidency. Unfortunately, your duty is also to hear me, please! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I listen to you carefully, and if you catch any gestures, it's because you do the history of things, neglecting the actuality. You say that, if there had been the previous Rules of Procedure... FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, you must hear me and you cannot give me any suggestions about my speech! You have to hear me, you can't make any suggestions to my speech! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I listen carefully, I don't give any suggestions. You absolutely can't leave things out of the way. FERRARA Mario (GAL). I can do all the speeches I want, Mr President, provided that they are brought back into an Italian language that is not obscure and not offensive! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Okay. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask the Offices to allow Senator Ferrara to recover the time of this interruption.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u20	I take this opportunity to greet the students of the Istituto Tecnico Industriale (Industrial Technical Institute), Antonio Pacinotti, Scafati, in the Province of Salerno, who attended this brilliant political debate. Thanks, guys! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u21	Please continue your speech, Senator Ferrara. VOLPI (LN-Aut). But how dare you interrupt a senator who's talking? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, President Ferrara, you may resume. Let's get the time, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr President. When together with the Senators Compagnone, Scavone, Mauro Giovanni and Bilardi we joined the Mixed Group we found the Mixed Group occupied by the senators elected in the SEL. They would have every right to form a group if they did not amend the 2004 Rules of Procedure. And ours was a pretty disgusting situation. You think, Mr President, what could have happened when we elected in the centre-right and the SEL had to join the Chamber to discuss issues of assisted fertilization, gay marriage or war in Afghanistan. What would we do? Would the assigned times be divided into two and next to each other give two completely different speeches? Because the historical ratio of the Mixed Groups is to realize within the co-existence of political groups that have the same substance, which is that of self-nomism, of peripherality, but not that of finding themselves inside an entire party with a national visibility, with a leader, with someone who goes on television and who dictates the political line in alliance with Bersani and an important part of the political representation of this country. Do we want to understand that the inefficiency of the institutions has necessarily led to the need to form ourselves, with the help that we have received, in an autonomous group with an autonomous political line capable of representing in this House the popular bodies and the vote received independently? Do we want to understand that this is not an extra charge and expense, but rather a right? And against this right were the speeches of Senators Zanda, Zeller, and, allow me, Mr President, also the choice of this Presidency. In fact, the agenda had been decided unanimously and therefore, as you well said at the Conference of the Leaders, it could have been changed at a specific request by a new vote. And you, Mr President, Mr Dominus of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, decided not to use what was another majority decision but which took place in the Commission to confirm Tuesday's agenda, but to settle a problem which would lead to additional expenditure with a convocation which has no precedent for the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We tried to say all this. Well, if so, we are here to represent our resistances, to point out and stigmatize this behaviour. And what I believe to have been our right to carry out our parliamentary duty and our mandate becomes our fault and has as a consequence been pointed out as an extra expense? Senator Zanda comes to say that we have created an extra group and that we must be guilty of this! But why, Senator Zanda, did you not accept our proposal, that is to say, to respect the agenda as it had been voted unanimously for Tuesday and then to make the reasoning in the short way? I thought I felt this as a justification: I know how things are going, I know my chickens and we must do the battle now because otherwise we wait a year as in the previous legislature. That is the reasoning, not the correctness of the position of us Members of the Group of the Grand Autonomousists and Freedoms. It is not the right that is allowed to us by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. The problem is that we are talking here about chickens and fair rights; we are talking about an extra spending, an extra representation. But why didn't they help SEL before, as it was given to the Group Grandi Autonomie e Libertà, allowing Senators Nencini and Longo to merge into the SEL Group? Maybe because there was the right resistance of senators for life? In this regard, another thing is good to say (we are allowed because we are in a Parliamentary Chamber and we do not need to stream): this is a solution found, alas, using what had been the will of Senator Colombo and Senator Andreotti (who has a long tradition of belonging to the For the Autonomous Group) to adhere to this solution; a solution that we know well to have been sponsored, addressed and requested by the PD. So, actually, even before the Great Autonomous and Freedom Group was born, there's a primality of the Group For Autonomouss by the PD. At this point, whoever has previous faults takes responsibility for it and does not throw the stone by hiding his hand. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u23	Senator Ferrara, I didn't want to interrupt you, but I no longer allow you to give me pleasure if you speak one Senator of one Group instead of another. Let's be clear about that. [[Comments of Senator Ferrara Mario]] You have attributed the pleasure if one senator speaks rather than another: I will not allow this to happen, be it clear! All the arguments and positions now put forward will be examined by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which is convened for this purpose and which is the place where this debate should continue. Let us now resume our work on the agenda. You have to give me the floor, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry, Senator. (Senator Ferrara Mario asks to intervene.) CARDIELLO (PdL). Give him the floor, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do we have to go on with these scenes? I give Senator Ferrara Mario the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you. I do not know whether I have exceeded my speaking time so that I have failed to give due consideration to this Presidency. But allow me, Mr President, to make the following point. As you said to me: I would suggest that you do not use the same sentence with regard to any Member of Parliament, even more than a Group President: I won't allow it. [[Applause from the LAG and PdL groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u25	Okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u28	NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, I am speaking for eight seconds on a personal basis. We are free men... PALMA (PdL). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Nencini, if I interrupt you, but personally you can intervene at the end of the session according to the rules we gave you. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] I'm sorry. NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). I didn't call back... president. At the end of the session, Senator Nencini, you will have all the time you need to perform your speech on a personal basis. I'm sorry, Senator. Please. NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). I did not refer back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u29	Excuse me, Senator, but you will have all the space you want at the end of the session because it is a personal matter. We respect the rules we gave ourselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u30	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 298. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteur gave the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u31	Mr President, I give up my reply. It seems to me that the debate has taken account of the work done by the Commission and the House. I just want to entrust to all of us the hope that, with the decree-law for our examination, there will be no further referrals about the application of Article 1 for the overcoming of judicial psychiatric hospitals and, with regard to Article 2, they can be defined, even through the full involvement of the scientific community, all the tools to offer a therapeutic opportunity to so many people who suffer and who today have no therapeutic path able to offer the sought certainties.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u32	I call the Health Minister, Mr Balduzzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u33	Mr President, my speech will also be brief, given that the general debate that has taken place has been very rich. I believe that the pluralistic articulation of the positions that emerged, with regard to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, did not lose sight of the fundamental fact: it is a choice, the closure of judicial psychiatric hospitals, now irreversible: a path aimed at finally overcoming, after so many decades in which we try, an intolerable situation. Two are in particular the qualifying choices. The first is to impose on the Regions the obligation to contain in the program the rehabilitation path and, in addition to structural interventions, also activities aimed at increasing the realization of therapeutic-rehabilitative paths. The second choice is to provide a fairly original form of replacement power, identifying in the same person the commissioner possibly called to replace the defaulting Regions. Of course, the hope is that there will be no defaulting regions. Many speakers complained about the need for an extension. It has been said that the timing forecast would not be fair. For the truth, at the time, both Minister Severino and myself had represented that the times did not seem appropriate to us, but we were told that there was still a need to contain the deadlines by the natural end of the legislature. I believe, however, that the fundamental point is precisely this irreversibleity of the path, the confirmation of this choice. Finally we see the positive outcome of a long battle. I believe that, in relation to this outlet, everyone present, in their current or future roles, will be committed to promoting the quickest solution. After all, also with regard to Article 2, i.e. the rule that intervenes urgently on the situation created in the field of stem cell therapies, it should be noted that a balance has been reached in the work of these days and already in the original decree-law between the reasons of the heart, consciousness and the reasons of science, medicine based on evidence, testing and reproving, impartial and authoritative evaluation, and the whole of the scientific and technical bodies that the National Health Service has. A balance between science, ethics and generosity, as has also been highlighted in the debate. There is no question - and it must not be - of the alternative between the right to health care and the organisation of health care. Access to care throughout the world is closely linked to evidence-based medicine. It is not even in question whether policy should determine whether this or that method is good: there are procedures that can validate it. With reference to the work carried out by the Special Commission, the Government also wanted to make a discreet but careful contribution; I thank President Bubbico for having mentioned it in the opening this morning. I believe that the guarantee that is represented by the competence and authority of the National Center for Transplants can be a sure road for the path that will be made. The Government had represented in the Special Commission the opportunity to explore the possibility that the choice made to rely on the rules relating to transplants rather than medicinal products, even if at European level, what is considered to be relevant to the sphere of medicinal products, should be evaluated. This choice was therefore assessed by the Commission and considered a possible and positive solution. The other stress that the general discussion has brought out very clearly concerns the strengthening of the network of attention to everything related to advanced therapies and, in particular, stem cell therapies. I would like to remind you that already in May, at the level of the Ministry, a team of experts had been identified; on this basis the work continued and will continue in the coming weeks. I believe that the reference that has also been made to the commitment that our country has and will have to have, in the second half of 2014, to assume the presidency of the European Union; I think that Italy can represent an important reference on these issues, but for this to happen we need our contribution to be authoritative and balanced. I also address the world of research, which still in these hours, at an authoritative level (I am thinking of Shinya Yamanaka, Nobel Prize winner for Medicine and president of the International Society for Research on Stem Cells), expresses doubts about the choices that the Italian Government and Parliament are about to adopt: I believe that it is necessary to emphasize to the whole world of research that these choices are balanced, that precisely keep in balance the reasons of science and those of conscience. The real hope, in fact, is that, when every reference to easy illusions is banned, the answers to needs and needs are found, in a context of solidarity, which binds in a true alliance the scientific community, health workers, the world of the sick and their families. We are aware of the importance of political decision, but also of its limitations. Beyond politics there is not only a world of more intimate values, but there is also a world beyond politics, which is recognition of the legitimate autonomy of scientific research. I believe that this is clear both to the government and to Parliament. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u34	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1 of the draft law. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law. I would point out that, with regard to the printed and distributed text, all the amendments to this article have been withdrawn, with the exception of Amendments 1.2 (text 2) and 1.3 (text corrected), which I would ask the rapporteur to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u35	Mr President, I would like to announce a rewording of amendment 1.2 (text 2), which I would like to read because it defines the scope and the issues dealt with in the previous text, namely text 2 which appears in the dossier: "In paragraph 1 (c), replace the words from: "and in any case" until the end of the letter with the following: "defining, as a matter of priority, certain times and precise commitments for the overcoming of psychiatric judicial hospitals, providing by 31 March 2014 for the progressive discharge of all persons for whom the judicial authority has already excluded the existence of social danger, with the obligation for ASLs to take charge within individual therapeutic-rehabilitative projects that ensure the right to care and social reintegration and promote the implementation of alternative security measures to hospitalization in psychiatric hospital and the assignment to home of care and custody." PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the representative of the Government to comment on Amendment 1.2 (text 3) just read by the rapporteur, Mr Bubbico.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u36	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u39	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, I would kindly ask you to allow us sufficient time to read the text of the amendment as reworded and to reason on it, since I imagine that the amendment to this text is born from a clear unconstitutionality of the previous text presented by the Commission with regard to the last two lines, i.e. when it leaves to the programme the obligation to implement security measures. I therefore ask you, Mr President, whether you can give us a brief suspension so that we can look into the new text presented by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u40	So let us put aside amendment 1.2 (text 3) and move on to the examination of amendment 1.3 (correct text), which is intended to be explained and on which I invite the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u41	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u42	I put to the vote amendment 1.3 (correct text) tabled by the Commission. It's approved. We now come back to Amendment 1.2 (text 3), which was previously put aside.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u45	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, I wanted to represent the Commission, with reference to this new text, what seems to me to be imperfection or a possibility of interpretation which is not in line with criminal law and basically also with our Constitution. In fact, the Commission's text states, with reference to the programme: "the progressive discharge of all persons for whom the judicial authority has already ruled out the existence of social danger". Let me say that, at a time when this social danger is excluded by the judicial authority, ipso facto the security measure fails. It is not by chance that you relate to the debate that was held in the previous parliamentary term with reference precisely to psychiatric judicial hospitals, and you recorded, on the basis of the statements made by President Marino as President of the Commission of Inquiry, that even many surveillance magistrates, although they are certain of the absence of social danger, basically affirmed their existence precisely because of the subsequent impossibility of reassigning prisoners interned with hospital facilities. Then it seems to me that perhaps more consideration should be given to the text, in particular the progressive discharge of all the persons for whom the judicial authority has already spoken because of the absence of social danger, in order to bring the Commission's text, which on the whole is clearly widely shared, into line with the general principles of the criminal order and in essence also with our Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u48	Mr Bubbico, rapporteur. Mr President, there is certainly a basis for this issue, but I would like to point out that we should also look at this issue in relation to an obligation on local health companies to take care of it by the end of the year. In fact, we act in a defined time space since the rules under the regime are already contained in the law in force. It could also be plionistic, but it seemed to us, to a merit assessment, that might be appropriate, in order to give certainty of taking charge (the decisive point concerns taking charge from the health companies), to point out that circumstance which objectively is precisely in the terms in which it was reported.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u51	PALMA (PdL). Senator Bubbico, I understand your reasoning, but the problem is basically in principle because the term "progressive" is not good. In fact, we could be faced with a prisoner for whom the absence of social danger has been declared but who, due to the impossibility on the part of ASL to proceed immediately to his care, remains in a facility (judicial psychiatric hospital) for several months waiting for this. Therefore, or we eliminate the words "progressive discharge" or the term "progressive" inevitably undermines this provision from the point of view of the constitutionality of the norm because - as is well known - it refers to personal freedom which, according to our Constitution, can be subject to deprivation according to the criteria laid down by law, since there is an absolute reserve of law that can obviously not be healed by a program, whatever it may be.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u54	Mr BALDUZZI, Minister for Health. Mr President, I do not know whether this can help to find a solution. This morning I had represented President Bubbico with concerns in line with what emerged from Senator Palma's speech. In particular, my concern was that this text could be read as a limitation of the supervisory magistrate's powers. The solution that I had allowed myself to represent, and that perhaps, President Bubbico, can be re-proposed at this point, was to clarify the issue with an impact: "Without prejudice to the assessment of the social danger by the competent judicial authority, so that there are no doubts. I say this only in collaborative and constructive terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u57	PALMA (PdL). Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, but I'd like to be clear. The problem is that at a time when the judicial authority establishes the non-dangerous social nature of the subject, the same can no longer be in that structure. In the new text (the first, as she acknowledged, it created even greater problems from the constitutional point of view), presented by the Commission of which we appreciate the effort and over which we are simply trying to make a contribution to the refinement of the legislative text in a sense consistent with the legal order, we cannot speak of progressive discharge or establish the progressive discharge programme for those for whom the judicial authority has already stated the absence of danger and who, because of this pronunciation of the judicial authority, are entitled to no longer be interned in the reference structures. For this reason I recommended, if ever we wanted to move forward with this text, to eliminate the term "progressive" which, in some ways, would prevent the existence of the objection that I am moving. At the same time - there is no point in hiding it - it would run counter to a reality whereby it would be impossible, in the event of significant resignation due to the absence of social danger, to recover these subjects from other structures. Minister, the problem is in principle and has very clear constitutional references. It is probably clear that this amendment could be put aside again in order to allow for greater reflection on the part of the members of the Commission and to arrive at an identical text in the concept but more in line with the principles of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u60	CASSON (PD). Mr President, it must be said that the rules of the penal code on security measures provide, with the additions that have subsequently been made, especially following the interventions of the Constitutional Court, for the assessment of social danger; so much so that the Constitutional Court, at least a couple of times, has intervened to declare those rules of the penal code in this matter unconstitutional if they do not allow the magistrate to carry out the assessment of social danger and if, following the declaration of the lack of such social danger, the person is not discharged immediately. So this interpretation is correct: when it is verified that there is no social danger, the security measure must fail. This morning, following a request from the Government, we had also raised this problem with the prospect of an amendment, but it seemed too rigid and in some ways superfluous because, in the face of the declaration of non-dangerous social conditions, discharge must be achieved. Therefore, Senator Palma's proposal to delete the term "progressive" could be agreed. This could, in fact, resolve the issue, in the sense that the existing rules are acknowledged and in the absence of social danger one must resign. The obligation for ASL to take charge remains. This resolves this situation without further weighing, nor on the judiciary, with the obligation to carry out further investigations, evaluations and advice, nor, and above all, on the person subject to the investigation, because it would be discharged immediately to the result of the negative assessment at his expense.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u63	Mr Bubbico, rapporteur. Mr President, I believe that Senator Casson's proposal can be accepted. So let's eliminate the word "progressive." I take this opportunity to point out a refuso in the penultimate staff, where it is written: "e all'assignamento", which must be read: "o all'assignamento".
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u64	Senator Bubbico, since you are also President of the Special Commission, which at the moment also takes over the competence of the Budget Commission, should tell us whether the proposed amendment, i.e. the elimination of the word 'progressive', involves changes in the assessment of financial coverage.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u65	Mr President, even on the basis of the insights carried out during the work carried out in the Commission, I believe that there are no reflections of public finance, since the structures that must ensure the therapeutic and rehabilitation treatments of these subjects are exactly those that exist today in each of the local health companies that oversee the issues related to mental health.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u68	D'Ascola (PdL). Mr President, I believe that the text, although characterized by the elimination of the term 'progressive', leaves standing the ambiguity of a person who is mentally ill but not socially dangerous and, nevertheless, is interned. The principle expressed by the Constitutional Court in its recent case law is that only persons who have committed a crime as a criminal offence and who are mentally infirm to socially dangerous can be interned. At the present state of our legislation of criminal law it is not possible to internment in any structure, and therefore in reference to psychiatric-judicial hospitals in these areas, if it is not established in concrete and timely the social danger of the subjects. I then believe that the elimination of the "progressive" attribute does not solve the problem substantially, because it would allow the issue of the discharge of subjects that are not socially dangerous (which automatically have to be discharged). The point of the story is precisely this: a subject that is not socially dangerous, with a finding that takes place in terms of current affairs, cannot be interned. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u71	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say that the elimination of the term 'progressive' serves to highlight and protect the right of persons to resign when they are no longer in a position to be held in those structures. That term risked bureaucratizing a discharge process that cannot be bureaucratized. After that the debate highlighted another topic, namely the ability of the system to give adequate accommodation and dignity to these people. This is the subject that I believe also raised Senator D'Ascola. It is a further issue, but in the rule of principle we cannot leave behind elements that reduce the protection of the right of the person.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u74	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, I take advantage of the presence of the Government simply to ask a question that I asked in February last year. At a time when a right to dispose is being stressed, then Parliament sets out a principle, then we must also address the problem of the accommodation and dignity of those who are subject to this right, and therefore of those who are abandoned. It is said, however, that this is a further step. I ask the government today, as I did then: how many people will be disused from the term "progressive" from this rule? How many structures on the regional territory are really already equipped to give assistance, accommodation and dignity to these people? Or, as usual and as has already happened historically (remember the Basic Law with all the subsequent polemics), Parliament legislates and then families and society have to take responsibility for the problem. It is a beautiful principle from the theoretical point of view, but instead of giving an answer that improves the situation of these people you dump them in a land of no one where there are still no equipment and answers, where the Regions and companies are not yet equipped to manage the situation. Then I ask the Government - the last time the former castle watchmen intervened, emphasizing the delicacy of the subject - if it is able to assure me, as senator, and the Senate, that set the principle and dismissed patients the national and regional health system will already be ready to welcome them.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u77	CALIENDO (PdL). Mr President, removing only the word 'progressive' does not do much good if we keep the other words 'already excluded' because they also refer to a current moment. The rule should therefore provide for the discharge of all persons for whom the judicial authority excludes the existence of social danger today or until 31 March 2014. Similarly, in the remaining period, while the first part refers to the obligation for ASLs to take care of those who are to receive rehabilitation or alternatives to hospitalisation but no longer need safety measures, the last part refers to the obligation for ASLs to facilitate the implementation of alternative safety measures to hospitalisation. I would therefore ask for a change to the last part of Amendment 1.2 in these terms: "the discharge of all persons for whom the judicial authority excludes the existence of social danger, with the obligation for ASLs to take charge of individual therapeutic-rehabilitative projects that guarantee the right to care and social reintegration, as well as to facilitate the implementation of alternative safety measures to hospitalisation"; in this way it is understood that these are two separate tasks.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u80	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, in reply to Senator Giovanardi it is clear that his speech is a timely one, because we know the things that have happened over the years. It should be remembered, however, that the taking over by ASLs of persons who are discharged, and not released, is only a particular one, but I think it is important to stress this. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD Groups),]] is expected within a year. The extension is made precisely to allow ASLs to build the route. The amendment specifies that it takes one year to do so. As I pointed out in my speech this morning, speaking with Minister Balduzzi, it is known that in reality many regions have already activated themselves and are moving forward in building the path. So, we're not in the year zero. There is a reasonable expectation that within a year, thanks also to this law, we will be able to achieve the path. However, it is right to stress this forcefully.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u81	So I understand that the new text of amendment 1.2 provides for the elimination of the word "progressive" and the replacement of "e" with "e" in the penultimate staff. I call on the Government representative to comment on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u82	Mr President, as far as the new wording is concerned, the Government is returning to this House. I would like to highlight, with reference to Senator Giovanardi's speech just now, that I reserve the right to send him in detail the state of the art of the situation. In the logic of the proposal contained in the original text of the decree-law the two things were expected: in the program that the Regions must present are not only structural interventions, but rehabilitation-therapeutic paths; if it is not yet possible to do so, at least the alternative measures must be indicated. In fact, this is the problem that will remain even after the transfer from psychiatric judicial hospitals to these new structures, which are a qualitatively different thing but which will pose the same problem that we are facing now. Therefore, the point was to establish a principle, understanding that at least in some situations the possibility for ASL may not be certain; the fact of establishing an obligation also sanctioned on the part of those responsible or otherwise, if we are not sure that the effect can still be there, would certainly induce the competent judicial authority to be cautious and therefore to reproduce, even in a different context, a situation that we rightly deprecate. The sense was then to accompany this transformation with a strong principle, reaffirmed. I believe that the text that will be put to the vote (though taking into account the fact that it has been presented at the moment: the Government is still returning to the House) constitutes a strengthening of this principle which should, however, be without prejudice to all the interests involved, the right to health and, of course, the minimum requirements of public safety. In any case, I reserve the right to have Senator Giovanardi have the full picture.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u85	BONFRISCO (PdL). Mr President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u88	CASSON (PD). Mr President, just for the sake of clarity, I would like to ask what exactly is the text in the vote, because there have been some amendments and proposals for inclusion. Finally, it has been proposed that, after the words "internalised persons" for which the judicial authority has already ruled out the verbal form "excluding" which, in my opinion, could be added favourably to the expression already envisaged. Therefore, the expression "interned persons for whom the judicial authority has already ruled out the existence of social danger" could be corrected as suggested by Senator Caliendo. The same applies to the expression 'as well as to the implementation of security measures'. So I would essentially like to know what the text is in the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Casson, I would also like to know what the text is for the vote. CASSON (PD). That is why I ask for it, for the clarity of all.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u89	We need to understand exactly what we have to vote on. If we could have a written text, we could read it and then we would know what we are voting on. If necessary, we could put it aside and move on, to give the rapporteur time to write the text as reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u92	Mr Bubbico, rapporteur. Perhaps we can close by collecting all the suggestions, so the amendment could be the following (I read it, anticipating that we will then deposit it in writing): In paragraph 1 (c), replace the words "and in any case" until the end of the letter with the following: "defining as a matter of priority certain times and precise commitments for overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals, providing by 31 March 2014 for the discharge of all persons for whom the judicial authority has already excluded or excludes the existence of social danger, with the obligation for ASL to take charge within individual therapeutic-rehabilitative projects, ensuring the right to care and social reintegration, as well as to facilitate the implementation of security measures alternative to hospitalization in psychiatric judicial hospital or assignment to home care and custody." [[Applause from Senator Chiti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u93	I think we can give a few minutes to think about this amendment, so let's move on to the next one, then maybe we'll go back. He had asked to speak to Senator Palma, which is why I allowed myself to move on to the other amendment, so as to reflect on the text and have a moment to do so. If Senator Palma allows it, the intervention will be delayed, so let's go ahead and reflect on the text, in order to vote on it later. The amendments referred to Article 2 of the Decree-Law are set out. We shall then proceed to the debate on the G2100 agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u94	Mr President, the agenda for G2,100 will be presented by Senator Taverna in her explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u95	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u98	PALMA (PdL). Excuse me, Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business, with reference to an issue which specifically concerns the subject. It may have a bad memory of the Rules of Procedure, but in the debate, when the explanations of vote and then the votes on the amendments are taken, it is not that they are illustrated and then the explanations of vote are bypassed, if any, and the vote, and an agenda is skipped. Now, you may be wrong, Mr President, but what I remember from previous legislation is that we generally move on to an amendment, which is discussed and voted on, and that is how we proceed. [[Applause from Senator Bitonci.]] I am probably wrong, Mr President, but I would ask you to consider my objection and, if necessary, to change your previous decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u99	Excuse me, Senator Palma, can you tell us what your request is? PALMA (PdL). I should like to explain it to you right away, Mr President, that is all we need. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The presentation of the agenda has been postponed to the explanation of vote, so I understand. PALMA (PdL). You have allowed us to discuss the Commission's amendment 1.2 (text 3 or text 4), and you have set aside the voting phase, and then you have presented the Commission's amendment 1.3 (correct text). I think, Mr. President... Amendment 1.3 (correct text) has already been voted on. PALMA (PdL). Then there's 2.1, isn't there? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The others were all withdrawn, I said it at first. PALMA (PdL). Even the Commission's 2,100 (correct text)? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, a moment ago the rapporteur gave up the illustration of this amendment. PALMA (PdL). So, they're all withdrawn. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, I said it at first, let's be careful... PALMA (PdL). Thank you, Mr President, I was wrong, very kind.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u100	[[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u101	They're all withdrawn, except the ones we're dealing with. I made the list. There's always to learn. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda referred to in Article 2 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u102	I call on you to accept the agenda for G2.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u103	I welcome the amendments tabled by the Commission and welcome the G2100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u104	I would remind you that Amendment 2.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100 (correct text). BONFRISCO (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Bonfrisco, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call for the Commission's amendment 2,100 (correct text) to be voted by electronic ballot at the same time. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 280 Senators voting 279 Majority 140 Favourites 279]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]] Resumption of the debate on draft law n. 298 president. I would remind you that Amendments 2.2 and 2.3 have been withdrawn. I put to the vote Amendment 2,250, tabled by the Commission. It's approved. I would remind you that Amendments 2.5 and 2.6 have been withdrawn. I put to the vote Amendment 2.7 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. It's approved. I would remind you that Amendments 2.8, 2.9, 2.10, 2.11, 2.13, 2.14, 2.12. 2,150, 2,16, 2,17 and 2.0.1 have been withdrawn. The G2100 agenda was accepted by the Government. Senator Fattori, do you insist on voting? FACTORS (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. [[Comments of Senator D'Anna]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I put to the vote the agenda G2.100, tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u107	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, when I spoke on the subject of the agenda, you concluded your speech by saying that there is always something to learn. In order to be able to learn better, Mr President, I would like to understand why I do not see an agenda for Rule 1 in the amendments file. I see only agendas presented in Rule 2. My objection, therefore, to the vote on the agenda following that of the amendments, since those in Article 2 were not provided for, did not seem to me to be entirely destitute of foundation. But, as you rightly say, there is always a way to learn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u110	D'ANNA (PdL). Mr President, I come from the House of Deputies. Unless the Regulations of the two Chambers provide for different rules, I would remind you that the agendas on which the Government gave a favourable opinion are considered accepted. So, what did we vote for?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u111	Senator D'Anna, according to Rule 95 (5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, "The voting of the agendas of the day takes place immediately after the speeches of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government. The authors may not insist on voting. It is therefore a faculty of their own.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u114	CASSON (PD). Mr President, the problem has already been resolved, because in fact there is a practice of the Senate in this respect: when the first signatory of an agenda asks for its vote, however, we proceed with the vote. It is peaceful, and in any case the Rules of Procedure are authentic.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u115	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2 (text 4), which was previously put aside.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u118	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, I am opposed to this position, because I imagine that the Groups will be voting in favour of this amendment, but I, for the precautionary principle, noting that we have already planned an extension of one year (I remember that last year we set the date for 2013, and now we move it to 2014 with this measure; last year it was said that a year would not be enough for the regions to equip itself and that has happened on time; we also checked that the Government had very prudently presented a measure characterized by flexibility in the management of this sensitive matter, but then this prudence was exceeded by Parliament that, in a way that was not enough, it decided that in 2014 it closed, so whoever is outside and who is inside is in), counting on the fact that the Regions in the meantime are using and implementing these structures, for the precautionary principle, I repeat, I abstain, and not because I am opposed to this principle of civilisation, but because I have no guarantee that from this moment until these measures actually take place there is the possibility of giving us a serious answer to overcome this position. Therefore, in this way my abstention, ready to rethink me if the Government will demonstrate to me - but I do not believe that it can do so, otherwise it would have intervened decisively - that for that period the structures will exist.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CASSON (PD). Mr President, I am speaking for a very simple explanation of vote, to remind everyone in this House that, precisely to remedy the problems and concerns of Senator Giovanardi, a paragraph has been inserted, replacing the previous paragraph 9, in which it is expected: In the event of failure to submit the programme referred to in paragraph 6 within the deadline of 15 May 2013, or of non-compliance with the deadline for completion of the aforementioned programme, the Government, in implementation of Article 120 of the Constitution and in compliance with Article 8 of the Law of 5 June 2003, n. 131, shall act as a substitute in order to ensure full implementation of the provisions of paragraph 4. In the case of recourse to the above procedure, the Council of Ministers, after consulting the Permanent Conference for Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, appoints the same person as the Commissioner for all the Regions for which replacements are required. The perplexity is therefore over and the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u122	SCILIPOTI (PdL). My abstention vote on Amendment 1.2 (text 4).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u123	I put to the vote amendment 1.2 (text 4), tabled by the Commission. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u126	SCAVONE (GAL). Mr President, Minister, Senators and Senators, I am responsible for the explanation of vote of the Group of the Grand Autonomousists and Freedoms. We are called to vote on the bill of conversion to law of Decree-Law No. 25 March 2013, n. 24, consisting of two articles, very different in content, but very close, as has emerged well from the debate that has developed in the excellent special Commission. Both articles, in fact, stress a state of difficulty with regard to a problem that has gone beyond the norm and that goes through the heart and the responsibility of the families and patients who suffer such conditions, even if in a state of judicial confinement, and of us, who are called to express ourselves on this matter. Much has been said about Article 1 and the current difficulties. We are here for this, to be sure of the programming that has been entrusted to the Regions and of the times of edification and organization of the alternative structures. I hope that with this extension we can overcome the reservations and concerns expressed here. While stressing that the vote of our Group will be in favour, I have raised some concerns, for example, from scientific societies, which complain that they have been poorly listened to and show how the attention of the Government has focused on the structures, with respect to the building of which we are never certain. I would like to recall the fate of the infamous article 20: over 25 years of opportunities and structural resources, often badly spent by the regions, with continuous new investment programmes and redistribution of non-expensive sums. Apart from the concern for the building times, the guiding thought is that you cannot think of a closure tout court - that we all want - of the horrors of psychiatric judicial hospitals. We need to focus on certain investments on the whole system of the service network. The mental health departments are already struggling to carry out this task also because of the alarming increase, highlighted by the epidemiological findings of mental disorders, and we risk, burdening them, without proper planning and investment of resources, to blow up this system. It is enough to have read the last act expressed by the State-Regions Conference concerning mental health, namely the mental health plan, where certain aspects emerge dangerously. First of all, there is a general increase in the epidemiological data of these diseases in our country. There is a huge demand for assistance; just remember the early interventions on our children at teenage age, the disorders on food conduct, the new addictions. The same plan also emphasizes with great drama that the resources dedicated to this sector have remained unchanged, despite the increase of the activities of the mental health departments. With regard to the lack of gradual closure of judicial psychiatric hospitals - we know that the regions have a few weeks to present a programme - we have read and appreciated the opportunity of replacement intervention, that is, that this is done in a timely manner where a condition of difficulty occurs. There are some regions in this country, one in particular, where the psychiatric hospital has never been in charge of the Regional Health Service; in another region the psychiatric hospital is the only one that welcomes, in addition to men and young people, also women, and is fully charged to ASL. I mean that there are different examples in the country; there is a serious risk that the lack of psychiatric assistance, formulated in a condition of new organization, with a strengthening of the activities of psychiatry, with clinics already inside the prisons, risks to blow the system. We note in fact the lack of commitment in many Regions: only six have started the organization of these observation structures within the prison system. The situation is very serious and will rapidly deteriorate if the departments and clinics within the prisons are not organized. We will have some consequences from the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals: an increase in the number of prisoners, which will be given even less care than those provided at present without considering the conditions of abandonment in some Italian prisons. We have difficulties in relying on mental health services on the ground, which complain (the last national congress of psychiatrists) about insufficient resources and the lack of specific funding. The end result is that all other citizens with mental health problems - and they are growing tremendously - are at risk of being careless. As someone has said in this House, we risk repeating a dramatic condition quite similar to that which occurred forty years ago with the closure of psychiatric hospitals and the wild resignation. A condition - I want to remember it after forty years - that favored only an organization of the health system: the private one, with the birth of a series of structures, numerous in some parts of our country but still spread throughout Italy, that have in the title the ambition to be rehabilitative while they do not rehabilitate anything, and inside have patients for over 30-34 years, as in the case of my Region. As regards psychiatric hospitals, structural interventions must be carried out to ensure, where necessary, the safety of patients (and that is right), but also the safety of operators and communities, while departments are open and not prepared to manage, in the absence of a coordinated network behind them, situations of patients who repeat the right. In conclusion, the process of closing and definitive overcoming psychiatric hospitals, as much as necessary and indifferent, must be accompanied - as we say and as we believe - by an adequate scientific and economic investment on alternative treatment paths, which must not be limited to the creation of structures - for charity - already provided for by the legislation but still not implemented (I hope realized over the time of extension that we are passing today): the commitment must be directed mainly to the increase of the investment in the mental health departments of ASL, so that they can equip themselves to realize these healing paths. The problem of overcoming and closing psychiatric hospitals, moreover, cannot be separated - as I have already tried to say at the beginning of my intervention - by the growing increase in the psychic disorders of the Italian population, aggravated by the economic crisis. A careful strategy must be put in place to look at what the World Health Organisation envisages, namely that psychiatric disease will be the first cause of disability within a few years. There must be no linear cuts, as has been the case with mental health departments, rather than adequate and measured investments, as has been the case in Northern Europe. I would like to recall two realities, those of Sweden and Finland, where the strengthening of services has resulted in a reduction of the disease enrolled by about 4%. And where this has not happened, for example in Spain, there has been a disturbing figure, which invests the not simple moment that crosses our country: the increase in the unemployment rate of one percent is paid a growth of 0.7% of the suicide rate. I shall conclude with a reference to Article 2. With a great sense of responsibility, the Special Commission has put in place a solution, but we must not forget that in this country a huge expectation, which overwhelms the heart, the passion, the emotional aspects of patients and families, has been conducted in violation of the Italian norms and with respect to European norms, entrusting to orders of the judiciary the task of doing what could be done in structures present in the same Region and that were accredited. I remember by heart: there is one in Monza, one Bergamo and two in Milan. I hope that, for the future, we will do our part to the fullest and with responsibility, just as we are taking it with tonight's vote, but I also hope that the judiciary will be informed in detail of what the European regulations provide for before taking some initiatives. [[Applause from the LAG Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u129	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 24 of 25 March 2013 concerns two particularly sensitive aspects of health: the taking charge of patients considered mentally ill and the issue of advanced therapies, carried out with stem cells. Article 1 has already been repeated many times today, it concerns a very delicate aspect, the closure of the OPGs, and I believe that the extension by the Ministry to April 2014 has been wise. I have followed this aspect as city council member to the health of my Region and I know that the Regions in this period are going through considerable difficulties related to the spending review and an increasingly difficult health service to manage. I therefore believe that it has been wise to postpone the construction of alternative structures for a year, which, in my opinion, will go beyond completing, at least, the extension of a whole range of services available to the mental health departments. I believe that this path is going to complete the process begun in 1978 with the Basic Law to protect patients with mental illness and represents an important support especially for families. I recall that these measures provide great help to the families of such patients, often subjected to humiliation and serious difficulties. The closure of the OPGs, as I said, extends the standards laid down on the territory. In fact, I want to highlight one positive aspect of this measure, which is to strengthen some services on the territory such as day centres, residential centres, housing communities, apartment groups and home care. These are services that I hope will develop more and more in the national territory so that these people are no longer pointed out and stigmatized but considered worthy of special attention, as well as their families. Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to point out something similar in some respects to the issue under consideration, namely the transfer of the competence of penitentiary health care to the Valle d'Aosta Region. With the implementing rules and the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers we have reached the last step, and therefore we entrust ourselves to his authority in order to succeed in overcoming this aspect, since already there are embarrassing issues regarding the management of health in the surrounding house. As far as Article 2 is concerned, so many authoritative interventions have already been carried out on this day. When it comes to children suffering from cancer or from rare and difficult diseases, we are all very careful and we all have to pay the attention that this problem deserves. I just want to add a consideration. These issues need to be examined with the utmost attention, but the two fundamental pillars for dealing with such difficult aspects of medicine are scientific evidence and clinical trials. I believe that these two aspects have been highlighted by the Minister, and also by the amendments brought to the attention of the Government by the Special Commission, which I believe has worked well. Therefore, there can only be a vote in favour of measures which deal with such sensitive matters by the Autonomous Group. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u132	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to start with a consideration and data from the Council of Europe, in particular the Court of Justice in Strasbourg, which condemned Italy, for violating the rights of its citizens, to EUR 120 million in compensation and issued 2,569 sentences against it. More than all other countries of the Council of Europe: more than Turkey (1,780), more than Russia (1,087). This places Italy among the countries under special surveillance and relegates it to the last place, from this point of view, that is, the violation of rights, among the 47 countries of the Council of Europe. This measure intervenes mainly precisely because it has gone to verify an inhuman violation of the rights of persons, rights that are protected by the Constitution, but that more than anything else are natural, fundamental human rights, not violateable, and not only by convention, but also for an ethical issue. Article 1 I have metabolized it with some difficulty, because it is yet another extension, on which we must intervene, on which we must discuss, because we have a public system and a articulation of responsibility that do not meet the demands of change that are also found as absolutely necessary on the rights front. We establish a year of extension, because we are not in a position to handle the emergency resulting from the recognition of a right violated, that of the guests of psychiatric judicial hospitals, who were in inhumane conditions of treatment. The amendment on which we have discussed, although it was a pleonastic one and had to take the floor several times to make it clear that the Constitutional Court, other parties and other rules had already intervened to sanction that right, we have proposed it precisely because it is not enough for that right to be written. It must actually be safeguarded, and this is not yet the case: to date there are people who live a condition of violation of that right. That is why on Article 1, on the treatment of persons who have been imprisoned in psychiatric judicial hospitals, the attention of the Left Ecology and Freedom, of this Senator Group, has been addressed, also in the work of the Commission. We believe that the work has been absolutely productive and also symptomatic of a certain behaviour that is being outlined in this beginning of the legislature, which makes it important for the rights of citizens, which can be better safeguarded through the work we are doing and the unitary attention we are putting in addressing these issues. And this is how a certain painful discussion opened, but then unitedly concluded, also on the case of the treatments subjected to the rule (so we called them), the same same rule that applies when carrying out research activities, trials, detection of therapies that have the prospect of continuing the process of finding scientifically proven solutions that move forward the horizon of the possibilities of cure. And this is a situation that also affects a great deal in terms of feelings, on the human level, because it concerns in a particular way young lives, concerning families who suffer the condition of a difficulty that, even this one, has characteristics of tragicity that are difficult to bear. The Commission's work was useful then. We have made our contribution to the work of the Commission, we have made it from the outset by making proposals and participating in the debate, but above all by contributing to the construction of this unitary commitment, aimed at tackling and solving real problems affecting our citizens, problems which, unfortunately, until now have not been subject to the necessary attention in Parliament and, above all, have not found an effective and effective response from the whole public and administrative apparatus of our country. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this measure, consistently, as we did in the Commission. The Left Ecology and Freedom therefore makes itself available at this moment on this provision, but also on others that will be addressed in the same spirit, in order to find, in the interest of the country, the best solutions. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senatori Puppato and the Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u135	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the attention you have given to this issue, even though the House is emptying itself, because what we are dealing with today is certainly a very important issue. The text of the Decree-Law came to the Commission in different terms than it did in this House and the amendments tabled, both in the Commission and in this House, say that there has been a fair and necessary convergence on these issues. We must also remind the Minister that the changes, as the speeches made today have confirmed, have certainly been necessary in order to give a complete meaning to a decree-law party on the wrong foot, i.e. with an unconstitutionality recognized by this same House. Certainly it is necessary to highlight the unevenness of the decree-law itself, which contained, as has already been mentioned, two extremely different themes and to which, each for its part it was necessary to ensure the dignity necessary to discuss them both in terms of knowledge and competence. Time has necessarily been limited both with regard to judicial psychiatric hospitals (even the failure to which the Government, unfortunately, has accustomed us, has made it necessary a measure in this case considered certainly urgent in order to be able to give a complete response and not leave our citizens in the void again), and with regard to the second part of the measure, as regards the therapies in need for those who have not recognized alternative in medicine, if not in the experimental one. Minister, we are responsible and we will vote in favour of the extension of judicial psychiatric hospitals, making it clear, however, that this must be the last deadline. It cannot happen that for the umpteenth time - as we have just mentioned - the superficiality with which the Government has dealt with this issue leaves the issue unresolved; it would be a damage to everyone, certainly also to the credibility of Parliament which is voting for this further extension. As far as compassionate care and experimentation are concerned, we have dealt with a subject that needs to be studied in a very short time. We must remember that the experience of compassionate care has greatly weighed the emotional burden, linked to the suffering of some children who today have no alternative to such care. The legislative measure under consideration does not solve all the complexities related to the new method of treatment with mesenchymal stem cells, but at least defines the necessary guarantees of access to advanced experimental therapies for those who put their only hopes in compassionate care. Parliament will have to return to dealing quickly with these issues, both as regards the need to define, at the end of the trial, rules that guarantee all therapeutic effectiveness, and as regards the substance that has not been touched upon. It is not up to us to discuss the merit of the goodness of a therapy; we must discuss the fact that no gaps must be left in the legislation. In this case, we must guarantee all citizens the right to health and certainly equal dignity, as the constitutional dictation imposes on us. In this respect we hope not to witness, at least on this occasion, the classic political speculation, in order to capture the consent of those who suffer. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] It would not be dignified for anyone, let alone for those who sit on the benches of this House. Instead, we have strongly supported the need to reach a unanimous position on the part of the legislator, because for us the answer to be given to the citizens who have found themselves in this regulatory vacuum, as for the many who live with despair the condition of exodus or the many others who find themselves prisoners of the regulatory voids and gaps of our country, must be immediate and concrete. We must guarantee all citizens the right to health and - I add - also the right to hope. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Puglia.]] For all these reasons, fellow senators, the vote of the North-Autonomous League Group will be responsibly in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u138	ROMANO (SPI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that the Government and Parliament - the Senate in this case - have had great courage: to address issues which, besides being very topical, are of great impact in ethical, biomedical, legal and legislative terms. This must be acknowledged, as must the harmony that has distinguished the Commission's work and which has characterized the work in this House today. If I had to go into more detail on Article 1, I would do so in a very synthetic way at this point, pointing out that the emergency measure in question and today responds to a particular need: that of enhancing the aspect of treatment in psychiatric treatment compared to that of mere custody in psychiatric hospital judicial, carried out all this exclusively within health facilities intended for this purpose. The aim is to enable measures to be taken to ensure that these alternative structures, which are not available, can be completed. I must say that the extension of the deadline bears witness to the conscious responsibility for ensuring that therapeutic and social rehabilitation absolutely necessary, using the institution of care, that is, the full responsibility. The aim is to re-emerge the persons admitted to judicial psychiatric hospital from a condition of non subjectivity to that of free subjects and holders of social rights, eliminating content, degradation, abandonment and isolation and thus restoring that inevitable heritage of subjectivity to those who are deprived or deprived of it. The decree in question therefore responds to the realistic conjugation between inescapable ethical and social values and the state of realization of alternative structures to psychiatric judicial hospitals. If I were to give a title of introduction to the speech on Article 2, I would say that you, Minister, gave us the opportunity to pass from the land of no one to what would instead be inhabited by controlled treatments, where the scientific dimension regains the spaces that are its own and rehabilitates itself. The conversion into law of the decree under consideration, and in particular with regard to Article 2, has been prepared with great care by Minister Balduzzi and the Government and represents a point of balance certainly troubled between various and legitimate instances, from those ethical and biomedical to those legal and legislative ones, as I anticipated, that have been represented - and I would like to stress this - by a work of collaboration and harmony between the various parliamentary groups. The result is a delicate one, as well as a positive balance between expectations created by clinical situations of particular gravity, such as rare diseases, ongoing treatments arranged by the decisions of some courts and compliance with good clinical practice. The Senate wanted to ensure a response to the hopes of treatment that, although not yet validated in international literature, will nevertheless be part of a trial under careful control. All this in the solo and mainly clinical interest of patients and family members who want to rely on a science that really and concretely gives safety and is truly of relief to grave suffering. In view of what has now been stated, Civic Choice for Italy will vote in favour of both Article 1 and Article 2 of the bill of conversion of the decree-law in question, with particular reference to the above arguments. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u141	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the coated covers, the television services and the image of someone in this House who feels that he is in a perennial election campaign cannot be measured by public health and the right to care. It is with this spirit and hands free from any business interest or to make one or more characters more equal than others (as previously seen) even in the presence of the law that we have found ourselves to legislate on such important matters. As citizens, we are involved emotionally and conscientiously, but, by virtue of the role that has been conferred on us by citizens who are absolutely equal to us and of whom we are oweable spokesmen, we must morally face the need to go deeper, for their own safety, by analyzing, verifying and taking a position, not only in the face of how emotionally it may seem the right thing, but in relation to what is rationally the right thing. We are accustomed to those who, moving in lawlessness, find it normal to allow what is not yet legal to pass as such, but we are dreamers and we delude ourselves that "legal" can equal "righteous." In full respect of the pain and need of entire families (and even more children) of a cure currently used, but not yet able to escape doubts within the scientific community, we have worked to ensure that this cure is guaranteed to them. At the same time, we are in the urgent need to ensure that this treatment is not, at the end of its experimentation, not only ineffective but even harmful. The lack of time and the persistence of the absence of the Permanent Commissions prevented a process of control and verification which would have led to the conversion of this decree-law, unanimously shared, with a serene soul, from proceeding through hearings or access to acts. This would have allowed both us and our colleagues (some of whom feel so sure to provide the solution to all evils) to decide on scientific rather than emotional or instrumental bases. This has not been possible because the state of continuous derogation which persists within Parliament and which deprives us of the only form of real confrontation and democratic guarantee is still latent because of the indolence and indifference of those who have been in this place for too long. We do not let ourselves be intimidated by an ad hoc media campaign to redo the trick or by loud words proclaimed by those who need access to political institutions, called to legislate for the whole community, for mere personalistic interests. It is our intention and responsibility to undertake, as indicated by the G2100 agenda presented by my colleague, Mr Fattori, this morning, in the relevant national and Community fora without delay, pathways for the redefinition of the GMP (Good Manufacturing Practices) and GLP (Good Laboratory Practices) licensing criteria which determine the characteristics of stem cell manipulation laboratories, so as to ensure access and operational feasibility, under conditions of absolute safety, including to operators with low economic and financial availability; to simplify, in time and economic terms, the procedures for obtaining the GMP certification issued by our country in order to allow for a greater development of the research for stem cell treatments; to undertake actions aimed at clearly identifying stem cell treatments and their manipulation that fall between the pharmacological care and those that may instead fall within the category Currently, the Stamina Foundation is said to be unable to operate in accordance with the law. Therefore, we want to verify at this point not only the validity of the method of this foundation, but also to put in conditions all those realities that want to benefit from it to have access to it, so that excessive bureaucracy does not prove to be an obstacle. This is our commitment for which we demand, on return, that Stamina herself respect those who pursue the research purposes in accordance with the law, relating in a timely and timely manner to what she is doing in turn to align herself with the rules in force, evidently exempted so far in an arbitrary way. It is in the spirit of this decree-law that the will of the citizens is prevalent also to the norms that have pushed us today to be in contrast with the Community guidelines, because we believe that it is necessary to guarantee the experimentation to be able to be exhaustive also for the diseases that seem incurable today. Just as we do not want free experimentation to rhyme with indiscriminate deregulation, without any kind of control by the State and the bodies in charge of it. If, at present, the citizen had respect and confidence in the institutions, this situation would not have taken place. And it is also for a rapprochement of citizens to the institutions themselves and for the re-acquirement of a trust on the part of what you call "civil society" towards what, always you, call "leading class" that we have tried to legitimize Parliament again, and no longer the Government, with its own acts, also on ethical issues of national scope, such as that of experimentation, seeking a sharing of intent, where political habits have led to this day in other directions. On the basis of the reasons given, both on the extension of the appropriate process of overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals and on the activities related to the use of stem cells referred to in Article 2 of the decree, the Parliamentary Group Movement 5 Stars will vote favorably, with a sense of civic and ethical responsibility, to the measure under consideration in the Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S, SCPI and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u144	BONFRISCO (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in voting for the conversion into law of the much-discussed Balduzzi decree, the Senate House accepted the proposals to amend that dramatic decree, with the responsibility and courage that give the figure to the great laws that mark the horizon of the community and, in this case, perhaps, of humanity. It is from humanity, in fact, that we started to orient our compass. That is why we could never have allowed you, Minister, to repeal a ministerial decree such as the Turkish-Fazio, which provides for compassionate treatment, including stem cells, to patients - whether small or large - who have no other therapy possible, who have before them only the prospect of death, which - alas - does not happen softly, but develops within a continuous seizure every few minutes, convulsions, suffocations with their own saliva that is therefore to be sucked up, without being able to eat or drink, since these patients cannot swallow, just as they cannot cough, and the cough is to be sucked up, because they do not have the strength to cough, talk or smile, let alone walk or shake the hand of their mother! And many of them - alas - do not hear and do not see. The days of these patients flow like this. This is the typical day of Geneva, but it can also be that of Giole, Celeste, Sofia, Federico, Christian, Sebastian, Désirée, Beatrice, Aurora, Chantal, Giacomo, Leonardo, Ludovica, Christen, Rita, Iacopo, Silvia, Mattia, Luca, Andrea, Alessia, Luca and Smeraldina, as it was of many others who have already flew away. There are not, however, only rare diseases: there are, for example, damage from brain hypoxia, often caused by childbirth, perhaps by a health care that sometimes shows its deficiencies at the most delicate moment of a person's life. It follows that the medical debate is destined to cross a lump of intolerable pain and no scientific dispute at the height of our time can ignore this human factor. He wrote well yesterday Luigi Manconi, inviting us to reflect on the real point: that compassionate care should not today push the boundaries of compassion beyond the - erratic and changing - perimeter of science. However, as a great scientist who responds to Einstein's name has very well synthesized, "everyone knows that one thing is impossible to accomplish, until a wretched man arrives who doesn't know it and invents it." We have responded to science by means of a law which, within the framework of Community law, allows us to start immediately the experimentation of the method of Stamina, carried out at the hospital in Brescia, so controversial and the subject of orders from judges to whom the parents have addressed themselves in order to be guaranteed a right. And why did the judges have to intervene? And why hasn't the trial started before? And why have the competent institutions not found appropriate technical solutions? Because all this has drowned in the whirlwind of bureaucracy: that dark evil that afflicts the lives of all of us, but that we could not allow it to shut down the lives of these little ones inside paperwork, marked papers and procedural Byzantineisms unbearable for all, let alone for those small human beings. A good bureaucracy would have accompanied, corrected, controlled this procedure. Bad bureaucracy didn't. He had four years to make a regulation, and he couldn't, because of inertia. And you, Minister, did not devote a minute of your time as technical minister, bureaucrat minister to oversee your bureaucracy. That is why, Minister, you had to run away from the kitchens of a hotel in order not to meet those parents accompanied by journalists! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That is why it is up to us today, after the great awareness of Parliament, which has developed thanks to the mobilization of parents and the media, to vote on a good law that brings this great scientific theme out of the swamp and obliges everyone to give immediate answers. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]] Immediately, in fact, it will have to be the application of the norm that assigns to the Higher Institute of Health and to the National Center transplants the authorization to the structures and the procedure so that it is not lost one more day, because those patients of days have few and I hope that no one will allow the luxury to subtract even one. I would like to ask you, Mr Bubbico, who I thank from the bottom of my heart, for helping us find the good shared solutions contained in this law, to promote strict control over the speed of the bureaucratic machine. In thanking you, I would like to thank all the Members of the Commission who, with such conscience and responsibility, have shown good evidence of the valuable value of a living Parliament within its democracy. In particular, I would like to thank my colleagues from the PdL Group, who have allowed me to carry out this work with serenity and strength, in the deep respect of the primacy of the citizen over the State. I thank these children, because by saving them in reality we are saving our Constitution, for which we are acting as representatives of the citizens. I have seen Parliament work well many times, in the general interest, but never as this time my parliamentary experience has a meaning and value. The value of Joel's little smile. Finally, I would like to thank you, Mr Grasso, for accepting the request of the representatives of the families to be received, as the President of the Republic of Giorgio Napolitano has already done. Therefore, I declare the PdL Group's vote in favour of the text of the decree-law presented by Minister Balduzzi, as amended. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups and the senators Giannini, Puglia and Molinari. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u147	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, in declaring the Democratic Group's vote in favour of this measure that we have discussed, I would have liked to confine myself to taking account of the reasons which, after a complex and intensive work carried out in the Commission and in this House, lead us to this decision. Unfortunately, today everything is made more difficult by the news of the death of a 31-year-old boy who has been detained for more than two years in the judicial psychiatric hospital in Castiglione delle Stiviere. This tragic fact - certainly not the first - makes us take more responsibility for postponing the final implementation of the closure of psychiatric hospitals by a year. It becomes a pledge for us - it becomes a pledge for the institutions - to guarantee, outside of all rhetoric, the implementation of concrete interventions that guarantee the definitive overcoming of one of the great shames of our country, the worst remnant of the culture of the total institution dedicated to the segregation of psychic diversity and suffering, characterized by an unbearable condition of degradation and violence associated with the deprivation of freedom. If we want this setback not to become the stigma of the resistance of all institutions to fully assume the profile of care and integration as a fundamental and founding act of civil communities, we must ensure that this year does not pass in vain, but is fully dedicated to preparing and practicing the reception of those we have excluded, considering this a fundamental condition for our humanity. The Minister said that we made an irreversible choice. I'm glad. Well, implementing it today is our task and, in order to do so, it is not only necessary to guarantee the replacement power, the commissioner power that the decree provides, but also to make choices, to ensure trained resources, to work on the integration of judicial and health workers, to support families and communities that will have to welcome people discharged from psychiatric judicial hospitals. This doesn't happen on its own. The planned action should not tolerate any more delays or exceptions and should be regularly reported to Parliament in its outcome, as well as its final outcome. We therefore need to be vigilant in order to avoid reaching the extreme ratio of the Commissioner's measure. On Article 2 of the decree the Senate Chamber returns today for the second time, after the vote on the preliminary constitutionality, discussed and voted on the first paragraph of Article 2. The debate in that Chamber has already well restored both the complexity of the measure and - I believe - the complexity of the political phase in which we are discussing and approving it. The Government, which has been the holder of the executive power for too long with the sole powers of ordinary administration, has been facing two major social emergencies. Among these, the emergency of access to an untested therapeutic method, which has, however, ignited in many people and families the hope of finding solutions to serious pathologies still without cure. On the problem or - if you like - on the border, as many of us have called it, of innovative therapies for rare degenerative diseases without sound therapeutic solutions, the work of the special Commission has been very intense, at times hard and - I think - profitable. The debate took place within many limits, certainly time limits, given the urgent need to give space to other crucial passages of this beginning of the legislature; certainly limits of competence of the special Commission, which, however, has made use of the active contribution of many senators and senators - as has emerged in today's debate - competent for the matters dealt with. I would like to thank all my colleagues who will be part of the Health Commission tomorrow for their indispensable contribution. We have certainly moved also within the political limits of this phase and have tried to overcome them by trying to fully exercise the function of Parliament, that is, by giving the construction of the dialectic between the positions a productive and hopefully fruitful connotation. The production of mutually agreed solutions, which we have adopted today by voting on the Commission's amendments, is the result of a non-ideological provision aimed at finding in substance the possible solutions in a situation - as I have said - of emergency in which the exercise of the right to health and care (as never affirmed and claimed when it comes to the right to the health of children), the acceptance of legitimate hopes of healing and the responsibility of the institutions and the State, to ensure the safety of care, quality, scientific validity and appropriateness of therapeutic pathways, so that they are guaranteed by the rules and the norm, and not by the exceptional nature of recourse to the judicial authority. The improvement of the procedural and regulatory safety conditions of the so-called derogations and the start of a trial phase, differently regulated than the existing references, are the solution to which we have come. What we are voting on today is perhaps a product that is not perfect from the regulatory point of view and the overall discipline of experimentation in the field of innovative therapies, but testifies to Parliament's desire not to give up its role, not to delegate it to the judiciary or exclusively to the Commission, but instead to confront it in a dialectic that is still indispensable. It will certainly be necessary to address the issues we have approached in the context of a more organic discipline, which I believe and hope will involve this same Parliament, outside the emergency, in relation to the citizens, the representatives of the sick, the scientific community, the national health institutions and the European institutions, as has also been mentioned by other colleagues. Today we have tried above all to give an answer, which we would like to be careful and responsible together, to the people who expect us to listen, timeliness and responsibility, without concessions to irrationality and populism, in an attempt to guarantee the principles of universalism and security that are embodied in our Constitution. To do so, we took risks on us. We worked towards a solution that exceeded an initial approach that did not convince us. We have found and courageously assumed the risk of change, to try to do the good of people and also the good of politics. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u148	With the warning that the Presidency will be deemed authorised to make any changes to the formal coordination that may prove necessary, I put to the vote the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 24 of 25 March 2013, with urgent provisions in the field of health" It's approved. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u151	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I asked for the floor as early as today morning because I wanted to inform the House of an event that my fellow senators and senators will now know: today the city of Naples was the scene of a dramatic morning, unfortunately linked to the degeneration of an event, however impressive and very participated, which had been convened by the Confcommercio. Of course this is not the place to discuss the rightness of the platform of that event, called to contest a measure on the ZTL that, to say of Confcommercio (in fact probably with elements of reason), is causing some discomfort, in particular to some productive structures of the city. I believe, however, that this is the place to draw the attention of the Senate not so much on a political judgment (which does not compete here) on the Neapolitan administration and on what is happening in the city, but on the fact that for too many days the city of Naples is the scene of a concatenation of events, unfortunately particularly negative, that I think deserve our attention: the fire of the City of Science a few weeks ago, the collapse of a palace of the Riviera of Chiaia and now a demonstration that degenerates in clashes of square with the use of paper bombs, with a probable, possible infiltration of some not better identified subjects masked, bearers of sticks and clubs, that have physically prevented some Neapolitan citizens from entering some shops and imposed by force the shopkeepers to participate in the lock. I have the feeling that my city and my land deserve a little more attention from this Parliamentary House, as well as a little silence in these same minutes. We spoke yesterday about the Marches because of the dramatic story of Civitanova, the suicide of poor people who, in the most dramatic way possible, have denounced a condition that is now unsustainable. So, if this is true in what was once the rich central Italy, imagine how true it is today in the Mezzogiorno of Italy: Naples is dying, and with Naples the Mezzogiorno of Italy is dying. I would like the Senate of the Republic and the National Parliament to take full responsibility for this; I would like the President of the Senate not simply, as I will ask him, to speak to the Minister of the Interior, and also to ascertain what has actually happened this morning, but that all of us together could make a serious reflection on this: what is he getting into the depths of the social crisis in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, about the fact that, for example, my city is the one from which, over the last 20 years, the vast majority of those who have graduated, who could bring a contribution and also a civil ransom, have gone away from the Mezzogiorno today. I would like to see a debate today on what is happening deep down in the society of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. I am not convinced that a measure such as the establishment of the ZTL, however wrong it may be in some respects, and however wrong a lack of dialogue with the city, which would always be right and indeed... ( [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u152	Please conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u153	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). I was saying that I am not convinced that such a measure could be the cause of a guerilla like the one there was. I would like the Senate to take charge of this and I would like to discuss this with my fellow senators in a very serious and very precise manner. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u156	ICHINO (SPI). Mr President, it appears that the Presidency Council has over the past few days approved, almost unanimously, the decision that, with some changes, renews similar decisions approved by the Presidency Councils in the past legislative years, concerning the position of the employees of the extinct groups. For the many Members who were not here in the last parliamentary term, it may be helpful to explain briefly what this is about. When a parliamentary group ceases to exist between one legislature and another, its employees are taken over by the presidency of the Senate and distributed among the groups that are formed in the new legislature. This in fact leads to a perpetuation of relations that are born with parties represented in Parliament and continue, even when those parties no longer exist or are no longer represented in Parliament, even for decades. A place for life, you know. Given the obvious anomaly of this situation - a particularly important anomaly for that part of employees who, since they are not chosen by any Group, are assigned in law to the Mixed Group, with the result of a serious overstaffing of the Mixed Group itself - I ask the College of Quaestors and the Presidency to provide the Assembly with data on the number of employees involved in this resolution, the appropriations that the Senate Presidency has resolved for each of these positions and the destination of these employees among the various Groups. I remember that it took me about two and a half years to get this data in the last parliamentary term. My hope is that the value of transparency in the meantime has taken a few steps forward and that this figure will be available in real time, so tomorrow itself, for all of us: not just for us senators but for all citizens. This is a small voice, though, of the cost of politics ignored by public opinion, and on the other hand I think it is worth giving careful consideration. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u157	I will pass on your request to the Presidency Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u160	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, I have asked to speak because this morning there has been a problem with the application and interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which requires, at least from my point of view, further clarification so that I can, in a calm and peaceful way, adapt to the legislation, including through interpretation, which regulates the work of the Senate. I have to say, however, that the legislation you referred to this morning, including the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, is very peculiar in itself, because one way I asked to speak at the end of the sitting, just as it seemed to me to be the point of your saying this morning, anchored to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and on the other hand to an official from the Senate, who said that I could not speak of a point of order at the end of the sitting. So, 2:00 a.m. [[The President's comments.]] I'm saying what I've been told. Already from this point of view, with reference to the strictly applicative part, an incredibly discrasia has been created between what you said this morning (calls to the Rules of Procedure and speeches on the order of business at the end of the sitting) and what has been reported to me. Anyway, no question. Mr President, the problem that has been raised this morning and which I intend to put again now has its own not insignificant legal significance. Knowing all its extraction and its refined legal preparation, I am sure that the problem I pose cannot fail to touch its sensitivity. You know better than I that the Regulation is a paraconstitutional regulation and clearly cannot be modified by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which can certainly interpret the rules, but, through the interpretation of the rules, cannot modify the rules themselves, otherwise this would be a surreptitious way of amending the Regulation, moreover, through paths that are not those that the legislator assigns to the regulatory legislator. Let us get to the point, Mr President. According to the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure (if I remember correctly, I am going to sum it up), the points of order and the statements on the order of business must be made at the end of the sitting, because, according to that opinion, they cannot interrupt the work on the agenda. Not only that: it is also said that, before speaking on the agenda or on a point of order, there must be a prior announcement to the Presidency so that the Presidency can assess whether or not the speeches made by the senators are relevant. Apart from this form - let me say it nicely - of preventive censorship, which objectively does not have a great sense in relation to the provisions of article 90, paragraph 2, which allows the President of the Senate to take the floor to those who intervene whenever the intervention you must from the subject in question, what I would like to put to his attention is the clear provision of article 92, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, which, in the words of the President: Points of order, agenda or priority for a debate or vote shall take precedence over the main issue and shall suspend the debate. That is to say that according to Rule 92 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, when a senator considers that he has to raise a question on the order of business or to make a point of order, the debate which is in place and which is properly scheduled according to the agenda must be interrupted. This is the clear provision of Article 92. If ever, through an interpretation - and this seems to me to be the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - we had to postpone the point of order, that is, an intervention on the order of business or the priority of the discussions, we would inevitably change the substance of the provisions of paragraph 1 of Rule 92. And I don't think... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u161	Senator Palma, it's already been five minutes and you know that the duration of these interventions is three minutes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u162	PALMA (PdL). Thank you, Mr President. I do not believe that this can be allowed to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I shall conclude, Mr President. The practice established in the last month of the last parliamentary term - if I remember correctly, the ruling of the Council for the Rules of Procedure dates back to December 2012 - stipulated that on exceptional issues the discussion could be dealt with immediately. From this point of view too, Mr President, do you not find that leaving the decision on the exceptional situation to the mere discretion of the President is objectively a compression of the function of Members? This morning I listened to your reference to the possibility of putting the matter back to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, if anything, through a call from the group leaders. I think, Mr President, that independently... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u163	I understand your conclusion. Please, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u164	PALMA (PdL). Thank you, Mr President, but I can conclude immediately, I have no problems. Where ever my saying, in some way, may be considered by you to be well founded, I do not think it needs the solicitation of the Leaders, as she herself, on her own initiative, may propose the question to the Board for the Rules of Procedure, without prejudice, of course, that the provision of article 92, paragraph 1, is very clear and that the Regulation is a paraconstitutional norm and any interpretation that in fact goes against this article cannot be followed by the senators, since no senator aspires to the compression of his own function.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u165	Thank you, Senator Palma. The matter will be referred to the Board for Rules of Procedure. I was continuing in what my predecessor, President of the Senate and today your Parent Company, had established for the order of business. I am pleased that there is this change within the Group, which I shall try to bring to the deliberations of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. PALMA (PdL). It is a sign of our Group's freedom.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u168	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that Senator Mussolini is not here. Given that in respect of the work of others the Senators of the 5 Star Movement left the Chamber at 22 o'clock, I invite Senator Mussolini to inquire before making accusations. Madame Palace closes at 10 p.m. After this hour the Senators of the 5 Star Movement went to their spaces in the Palazzo Carpegna, which, as Senator Mussolini will know, is subject to night surveillance. If the problem is the electricity consumption in this House, I would ask for controls to be put in place for the continuous functioning of the lighting in the corridors, bathrooms and personal offices of the senators because, if they do not arrive, the light remains on from morning to evening. However, as the Senate quaestor, I have already requested to quantify the highest cost borne by the Senate budget for the extension of the House's opening following the M5S senators' initiative. This cost was 3 euros per hour for electricity and 75 euros per hour for air conditioning. For the charge of the relative cost to the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement I reserve the right to find a solution with the College of Quaestors Senators. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u169	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-12.ana.u170	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 16 April, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.38.
