ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.37 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.40).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders approved changes and additions to the timetable for the work of this House. This afternoon, at 6 p.m., the Minister of the Interior will make an urgent statement on the case of Alma Shalabayeva. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes each. On Thursday afternoon the motion of solidarity for the work of the Minister for Integration will be discussed. On Friday morning, at 8.30 a.m., instead of the inspection union, the motion of individual distrust against the Minister of the Interior will be discussed. The general discussion was followed by the allocation of time between the Groups. The Minister of the Interior's reply will take place at 10.30 a.m. The final explanations of vote will follow around 11 o'clock. The start of the call by roll call is scheduled for 12.30 p.m. Next week the Assembly will come back to meet starting from the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 23 July, for an examination of the decree-law on the revival of employment and VAT. Therefore, Monday 22 will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. The other arguments already planned for this week (following IMU Decree-Law and Social Shock Absorbers; the Anti-Mafia Commission Constitution) and the timetable for the following weeks remain firm.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current calendar: [[Tuesday, July 16 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following draft law n. 843 - Decree-Law n. 54 on IMU and social shock absorbers (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Exceeded on 20 July) - Urgent information of the Minister of the Interior on the case of Alma Shalabayeva (Tuesday 16, 6 p.m.) - Drawing of law n. 825 and related - Institution Anti-Mafia Commission (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Discussion motion n. 112, Zanda, solidarity for the activity of the Minister for Integration (Thursday 18, p.) Wednesday 17 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 18 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30 Friday 19 July ant. h. 8.30 - Motion of individual distrust debate No 110, Mr Giarrusso, against the Minister for the Interior]] Amendments to draft law no. 890 (Decree-Law No 76, relaunch of employment and VAT) and 896 (Decree-Law No 78, execution of the sentence) must be submitted by 1 p.m. on Friday 19 July. [[Tuesday 23 July ant. h. 9,30-13 - Drawing of law n. 890 - Decree-Law n. 76, revival of employment and VAT (Presented to the Senate - final vote by 31 July) (Explanation of 27 August) - Drawing of law n. 896 - Decree-Law n. 78, execution of the sentence (Submitted to the Senate - final vote by 1 August) " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Wednesday 24 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 25 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 25 July pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the President of the Council of Ministers on Friday 26 July 9.30 a.m. - Questions and questions]] [[Monday, July 29 pom. h. 17-20 - Eventually followed decrees-laws not concluded - Drawing of law n. 941 - Decree-Law n. 61, in the matter of environmental protection, health and work for enterprises of national strategic interest (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade il 3 agosto) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 69, with urgent provisions for the revival of the economy (Ove approved and transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade il 20 agosto) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 72, payment of debts institutions health service (Ove approved and transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade il 24 agosto) Tuesday 30 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Wednesday 31 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 1 August ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30 Friday 2 August ant. 9.30 a.m. - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law no. 941 (Decree-Law No 61 on the protection of the environment, health and work for enterprises of strategic national interest),... (Decree-Law No 69, laying down urgent provisions for the recovery of the economy) and... (Decree-Law No 72, payment of debts to health institutions) will be established in relation to the progress of the work of the Commissions. [[Monday, August 5 pom. h. 17-20 - Eventually followed unfinished decrees-laws - Ratifications of international agreements Tuesday 6 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Wednesday 7" ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 8 " ant. h. 9,30]] The timetable will be supplemented by the votes for the election of the Administrative Justice, the Court of Auditors and the Tax Justice Presidency Councils, as well as by the examination of documents drawn up by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 843 (Decree-Law No 54 on IMUs and social shock absorbers) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 43' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' Mixed 24' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for the general discussion of the motion of individual mistrust No 110, against the Minister of the Interior [[Groups 1 hour and 30 minutes, of which: PD 21' PdL 19' M5S 13' SCpI.....8' LN-Aut.....8' Mixed 7' GAL 7' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 7']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 890 (Decree-Law No 76, relaunch of employment and VAT) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 38' PdL 1 h. 27' M5S 59' SCp 40' LN-Aut 37' Mixed 34' GAL 33' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 896 (Decree-Law No 78, execution of sentence) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 38' PdL 1 h. 27' M5S 59' SCp 40' LN-Aut 37' Mixed 34' GAL 33' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 941 (Decree-Law No 61 on the protection of the environment, health and labour for enterprises of strategic national interest) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 43' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' Mixed 24' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 69 on urgent measures for the recovery of the economy) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 43' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' Mixed 24' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 72, payment of debt institutions health services) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 43' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' Mixed 24' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u6	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 843, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than a year and a half since the Monti Government approved the "Decree salva Italia" in December 2011. Then how today we escaped what we had to save: what did this provision intend to save? We're still discussing IMU. We are discussing a measure that suspends for a few months a tax that we have considered unfair already in the past and whose roots lie precisely in December 2011: a measure on which the Government has literally wrapped itself in trying to overcome the age-old problem of the IMU. After vexing citizens with a tax on first homes, appliances and businesses, today the Government, with a U-turn, suspends this tax on the first house until September; it is a suspension that, however, does not solve the problem in any way and does not attack it at the root. The question then is all too easy, Mr President: where has that commitment, which has been so praised in the election campaign, ended up in supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and helping companies? An indispensable reorganization must also include the question of buildings falling within category D, i.e. buildings that are instrumental to enterprises. The IMU - we have always said this, we continue to say it and we will continue to repeat it again these days - is an unfair tax: it is unjust and goes to add to the current Italian tax system, the most penalising among those of the OECD countries. Senators, remember this number: 68.3%, i.e. the estimate of the current percentage of taxes and taxes on income that this State is asking of companies. Can we think, Mr President, that we can re-launch the issue of work with a tax burden of close to 70%? Let's not call it then more IMU, but ISU, that is to say unique state tax, having nothing, I would say absolutely nothing, municipal. Mr President, with fiscal federalism the professional figure of the cabinet of the State had disappeared; instead, this will be done by our mayors when it will be impossible to apply this tax. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Much of this gabella will be imposed by the mayors on their citizens and will then be paid to the state. In order to avoid the budget gap and to cope with the lack of transfer of the central state, the municipalities will have to increase the rates. Mr President, last night I took part in the municipal council in my small municipality of 1,600 inhabitants, which approved the budget: I was ashamed that I had to vote in favour of the application of the additional IRPEF, which in twenty years of administration of the League we were never obliged to introduce. In an explanation of vote, I have therefore denounced to all citizens the lack of attention on the part of the State towards the small municipalities, which have a great difficulty in making the budgets right. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The government has been smart, very clever, we have already denounced it in the past: speaking again of IMU has created confusion art. On the other hand, the IMU was quite different as originally thought, the one provided for in the implementing decree of the laws on fiscal federalism: a tax that should have entered into force in 2014 and that would have merged various forms of taxation on buildings; a tax on a territorial basis and collected - I stress, Mr President - from the municipalities, not from the State; a tax that for nothing provided for a revaluation of 60% of the cadastral extimes. Mr President, there has never been such a black period: unemployment for decades tops; youth unemployment for over 40%; the high peaks of the integration fund; food consumption - a very significant figure - by 3%. We have then lost our way these days another rating class; patience, we'll get over it. Bad news, President! In all this dramatic situation, the government blocks for now the dreaded increase in VAT and shifts the payment of the IMU instalment to the first house by a few months; and how does it find the way to circumvent and satisfy the legendary Article 81 of the Constitution, which we discussed in the Commission and which we will see the damage in the process of approving the amendments? Find the financial cover with the increase of the IRPEF, IRES and probably IRAP payments: a strong loan that, if you think about it, penalizes those who declare and favor those who escape. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Our economic fabric is essentially based on small and medium-sized enterprises: companies that fight the crisis every day, that try to maintain employment; companies that try to resist and work to ensure that all our made in Italy is not raided by foreign companies and entrepreneurs. Then, Mr President, there is Europe. The OECD and the International Monetary Fund intervene to prevent this Government from abolishing the IMU. We are Commissioners, Mr President, from this Europe and from this Franco-German axis; and to think that we had asked the President-in-Office of the Council to represent us in Europe from these very benches and we also asked him to beat his fists on the table to get something! We have seen that the President-in-Office of the Council has just caressed him, touched him and picked up some crumbs. It's the crumbs he brought to Italy! And you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who are not present, shouted great victory for those crumbs! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u8	Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u9	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of personal competence I do not speak on the tax side of this decree-law, on which I merely propose an elementary remark: in order to put into motion an economy stifled by debt and logical tax pressure, it would like to see the public resources available primarily for the reduction of taxes on those who produce (IRPEF and IRAP, work and enterprise), secondly on those who consume (VAT) and only third on those who own (IMU). The wish of Civic Choice and mine is that to these priorities, even with the compromises that the electoral promises of a majority party impose, is inspired the action of the government in the coming weeks and months. As for the part of the decree dedicated to labour, its most important content is the refinancing of the so-called redundancy fund by way of derogation, since other measures on the labour market are referred to Decree-Law No 76, which we began to discuss in the Commission today. This morning we heard the rapporteur, Maurizio Sacconi, saying that it has the function of guaranteeing the continuity of the link between the worker and the company in the situations of temporary crisis in which work must be suspended; I repeat: guaranteeing the continuity of the link between the worker and the company. If the integration fund were really used, at least in most cases... (The Undersecretary of the Aringa conversa). I'd like the Undersecretary for the job to listen to me, because I'm talking about things that are relevant to the economy and well-being of the country... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Undersecretary Dell'Aringa... ICHINO (SCPI). I was saying: if the fund were really used, at least in most cases for this purpose, i.e. to keep the worker tied to his home company, it would only play a useful role, because it would avoid the passing shock that could otherwise destroy human capital and deconstruct production structures. The fact is that in our country, despite the legislative rules that would impose to use the Cassa Integrazione only for this purpose, this instrument is activated systematically even in situations in which it is certain and evident that the workers concerned will never resume to work in the enterprises from which they still formally depend. When this happens, i.e. when the integration fund is used to defer the problem by pretending that the employment relationship continues, i.e. by hiding a situation of substantial unemployment, it is not only a misuse of this instrument, but also a serious damage is caused to the worker concerned: it is in fact linked to the company of origin, causing him not to become active in the search for a new job, thus causing an extension of his period of inactivity, which in turn produces a progressive reduction in the effective positionability of the worker himself. Now, the possibility introduced five years ago to grant the integration fund also by way of derogation, i.e. in the absence of the requirements normally applicable by law, has substantially facilitated a further spread of the misuse of this social shock absorber: it is used today in situations where the treatment of mobility or unemployment should instead have been activated. The same rapporteur, Mr Sacconi, told us this morning that in many cases wage integration by way of derogation has been provided to people who have already been suspended from work for more than five years. In fact, the INPS has recently provided us with a table from which it appears that the derogation fund has also been widely provided in situations where work benefits had ceased for more than six, seven, eight, nine and even ten years or more; all these situations, in which no one can reasonably think that there is the slightest possibility of a resumption of work in the same company to which the worker is kept fictitiously linked for such long periods. The derogation could be regarded as an exceptional measure, and as such appropriate, following the failure of Lehman Brothers, that is, in the immediacy of the very serious emergency of the outbreak of the great crisis; but five years later this can no longer be the way in which the problem of unemployment is addressed. The so-called Fornero law of July 2012 indicates the right way in which the problem must be addressed, that first of all to call things by their name: to treat unemployment situations with the appropriate tools. The Fornero Act, in addition to bringing the Cassa Integrazione back to its essential function, has established a European level universal unemployment treatment, social employment insurance, which provides 75% of the last pay in combination with the measures necessary for finding new employment and subject to the effective availability of the worker concerned. The resources we have should be intended, if anything, to widen the possible scope of this instrument, not of the integration fund used as we are using it, if we really want to avoid that our workers involved in employment crises are destined to remain for seven, eight, ten years frozen in the freezer of a treatment that does not relocate and cannot for its structure relocate anyone. In our amendment 4.20 to the decree-law we propose that at least one third of the available resources be used for this purpose, since no less than one third of the cases now covered by the derogation fund, and indeed presumably many more, are cases of actual unemployment. We sincerely do not understand why the Budget Commission has considered rejecting this amendment, which obviously does not impose any additional burden on the Treasury. If this amendment is to be withdrawn for the sake of prompt adoption of the conversion law, let us say so and we shall withdraw it for this reason, not for a false reason such as that of alleged incompatibility with budgetary requirements. However, we ask that the Government undertake to move as soon as possible in the direction that that amendment and common sense indicate, to turn the page to a profoundly wrong way of dealing with the employment crises, which has already done too much damage to our country. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u10	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mr Undersecretary, today I will talk to you about the history of the Great Fire and the water gun used to put it out, together with Nero, known for his familiarity with fire. According to ISTAT data, in May the number of unemployed reached 3,140,000, an increase of 1.8% compared to April (i.e., 56,000) and 18.1 percent on an annual basis (i.e., 480,000). The unemployment rate stands at 12.2%, 0.2 percentage points higher than in April and 1.8 points higher over the twelve months (absolute record since 1977). The integration fund, last year, broke through again - after the peak of 2010 - the roof of the billion hours. They reduce consumption, many families are no longer able to cope with the costs of the doctor's care and tests, they can not pay the bills or the heating of the house. Poverty is growing, as evidenced by the increase in people who turn to Caritas, while the risk of social exclusion now affects a quarter of the population. Today, one third of young people have no jobs, and more than 160 industrial crises are taking place. Purchasing power returned to the values of ten years ago, and over fifty medium-sized municipalities are on the brink of financial failure. Meanwhile, the change in GDP (reduced by 2.4 percent in 2012) is expected to remain negative even in 2013. Between 2012 and the first three months of 2013, 121 people took their lives because of causes directly linked to the worsening of their economic conditions. This is the Great Fire blazing in our country, obviously with the help of Nero. These are known data, but it is right to remember as we discuss bill No. 843: one of the water guns that, according to the Government, should put out this fire. The provisions of Law No. 843, of different types and nature, give the feeling of the lack of a unitary plan and of a long-term vision: we speak of an occupational emergency, we speak of social shock absorbers by way of derogation, we speak of TARSU, of eliminations of the salaries of parliamentarians members of the Government; everything mixed into a single bill, where there is no decisive measures, solutions that give concreteness to the hope of a change. We postpone the payment of the IMU, the mother of all wars, the maximum challenge that, apparently, this ambitious Government has set itself ahead. We welcome the suspension, especially in view of a fairer and more careful reformulation of the tax. Moreover, families in housing distress are becoming more and more numerous: 52.7 percent consider housing expenses to be too heavy; 20.3 percent live in degraded or damaged dwellings; 11.5 percent cannot heat the house sufficiently, and 11 percent have been late at least once in paying rent or mortgage payments, ending with 8.9 percent having difficulty paying bills. But the fire burns even more among those who do not have it, or have lost it; in fact, the number of people who are evicted is rapidly increasing. Of the 290,000 evictions issued in the last five years, as many as 240,000 are for morosity, with the forecast of an increase of 150,000 in the next three years; 26 percent are large families, migrants and low income, and 38 percent are elderly, mostly living alone; 21 percent, on the other hand, the evictions are dedicated to young people, precarious under 35, who in the last two years have not worked. It is precisely the scourge of precariousness that shows in all its gravity the limit of social policies in Italy. The fund is financed by way of derogation: well, a necessary and urgent measure; however, the issues must be addressed in order to introduce structural remedies and this decree of true solutions does not find any. In absolute number, the Italian precarious are 3,315,580 units: the salary is average of 836 euros net per month (927 euros monthly for males and 759 for women). The demand for stability that is posed by Italian citizens and families is clear, while the Government's response is insufficient and confused; precarious, underpaid, at risk evicted, unable to buy a house and put on a family, defrauded of the pension, ignored once again by politics, which does not want to see and admit the immediate and no longer procrastinable need to establish the guaranteed minimum income, once and for all reformulating the system of social shock absorbers. I do not know what we are still waiting for to be able to give this answer. How much longer will this fire have to burn before admitting that these water guns are not enough and that Nero doesn't have to play with fire anymore? You will say that money is missing: it is not true. We are capable of stealing money from the victims of Mafia crimes, but not of seriously attacking the waste of public administration, the costs of politics, corruption, evasion, recovering resources that could be put back on the market in a fair and prudent way. Let me remind you that the total expenditure on the financing of the revenu de solidarity active (RSA) in France is very similar to that which the Italian Treasury spends on its social shock absorbers. It means that we have spent on a welfare system that protects only one worker in two the same amount that in France has guaranteed everyone a universalist and fairer protection program. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bencini, I invite you to conclude: time is running out. BENCINI (M5S). Well, then I'll finish; I'll finish with the last words, okay? We of the 5 Star Movement believe first of all that the commitment of a modern and civil country must be to return to guarantee the conditions so that precarious work is the exception and stable work is the rule. We want every worker to be paid to ensure a decent future for himself and his family. We want fewer hours of work, more people working, more quality of life, we do not want to live to work but to work to live simply and serenely. Real and powerful solutions must be formulated as soon as possible that restore confidence in the world of work, foreign investors, workers and that are not the usual palliatives. It is necessary for citizens to regain confidence in the institutions. We believe that in order to be truly decisive, the fundamental principles enshrined in the articles of our Constitution, together with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, must be implemented. It's time to drop the water guns and grab the hydrant to face this fire. And since... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u12	Another second, Senator: the time to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u13	BENCINI (M5S). Thank you. Final Rush. And since we like to spend money on the F-35, maybe it would be better to put out this fire to buy the Canadairs. They are certainly more useful, phonetically even more harmonic. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caridi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my brief speech would like to express a deep satisfaction with the content of the decree-law as a signal of the Government's response to the Italian people on sensitive issues such as the taxation of housing and the refinancing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation, as well as on the issue of the reduction of the costs of politics, which has been repeatedly mentioned in this House, which is reflected in Article 3 with a reduction in the economic treatment of government positions. I want to make an invitation to the Government to arrive at the final and important decisions on the elimination of the IMU on the first house for the main homes, with the exception of those of luxury, and not for political arguments but only to alleviate the many Italian families of the many sacrifices they have endured to build or buy the first house. The first house is the pillar on which every family has the right to build the security of its own future. The IMU has caused concern in Italian households, anxiety, fear of the future; it has precipitated the value of the real estate and has reduced investment in the real estate sector; it has halved the loans paid to the families in the last year; it has reduced by a quarter in a single year the purchases of housing. This resulted in a collapse for residential buildings, which led to a similar crisis for other important sectors, such as furniture, furniture and ceramics. They found themselves without work artisans, blacksmiths, electricians and carpenters, small and medium-sized Italian companies. While aware of the government's efforts to find financial cover for the measure, it is worth remembering that attacking oversized public expenditure in relation to the quality of the services offered can allow the finding of important resources to ensure the abolition of the IMU as part of the overall reform of the tax discipline on real estate. This reform could provide for the application of costs proportional to the best energy class of the property for the buildings that are subject to the payment of the IMU, with the exception of the main dwellings, so that those who consume and pollute less will have lower tax costs. It would also be desirable to provide for measures to support the unsold businesses operating in the construction sector, including in order to support a sector vital to our economy and to prevent costs from being dumped on the final consumer. In relation to the refinancing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation, which is added to Law No. 92 of 2012, further and objective questions are raised about the possible changes to the current provisions and the possibility that the employment situation of the Country will be further aggravated, without being resolved to the numerous industrial and labour crises of which large parts of our territory suffer. It is clear to all that the very serious situation of alarm that is arising in Italy for the workers of small enterprises, with repercussions on the same strength of social cohesion, linked to the recurrent risk of dismissals. This requires more careful monitoring and monitoring of INPS expenditure and action to respond to the needs of people in need, using more selective criteria for their disbursements. The figure being taken into account relates to the large sums invested and distributed between Community, national and regional investments, without thereby achieving a recovery in the real and lasting economy and employment in favour of enterprises and safeguarding the employment fabric. Nor can it be a solution to shift the need to balance the pension balance to companies by raising the pension age. Instead, it is desirable to launch a close confrontation to address and solve the problem of work, which is now a dramatic social emergency. The Government's efforts must therefore be to avoid being unprepared for future measures to counter unemployment, respecting the balance of public finances and even more of the workers of this country. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u16	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u17	Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, the current economic crisis, especially its persistence, calls us to make every effort to identify the most appropriate policies to alleviate the difficulties that our families and businesses are going through. This measure is an act introducing first measures to deal with this delicate situation, with a view to increasing disposable income on the one hand and, on the other hand, employment levels, especially young people. Before passing on to the detailed examination of the individual dispositions it is right to remember the teaching that, on the policy side, comes to us from the most important economist of the past century, John Maynard Keynes. Only support for demand for goods and services, commonly called aggregate demand, can enable market economies to emerge from a period of deep and persistent recession. And the measures taken with the text we are about to dismiss are intended to support the consumer decisions of our families and thus stimulate aggregate demand. However, in the future, when we are faced with a more comprehensive measure in the near future, it must be borne in mind that, in addition to this aspect that we are dealing with today, there are other elements on which we must focus our action. The Ministry of Economy and Finance has provided the Finance and Treasury Commissions of the Chambers with data on the various types of real estate units involved in the payment of the IMU and the data shows an indication that we must bear in mind. In 2012 more than 40% of the total IMU revenue came from businesses and shops, amounting to more than €10 billion. Specifically, the cadastral category "D", which includes sheds, hotels, nursing homes and so on, has produced well over 6 billion euros per year, from the shops comes a revenue of almost 2 billion euros, while from the offices and professional studies comes an amount of 1,2 billion euros and from the handicraft workshops a sum of more than 1 billion euros. In addition to the issue of the first house, the reform of real estate taxation must start from these data and from the weight that taxation today is pouring on production activities strangled by an unprecedented crisis and a tax pressure that leaves no room for manoeuvre. Moreover, the picture becomes more worrying when we think of the weight of TARSUTIA and TARES that companies are called upon to support because of the unsolved problem of the assimilation of special non-dangerous waste to urban people who over time - and even more so in the future - has transformed companies into real ATMs for public coffers. In order to share aggregate demand and with it the economy, particular attention will have to be paid to the needs of the productive world called to face without possibility of success the competition of the emerging countries on the side of the labor costs and on the other hand of the advanced countries with more efficient tax systems. The difficulty of contracting labour costs must prompt us to take all those measures to enable the Italian production system to regain margins of international competitiveness. Today, the measure under consideration addresses some aspects and therefore attempts are being made to provide, to a large extent on the part of families, some answers. Thus, Article 1 suspends the payment of the first instalment of the municipal tax for the year of tax 2013, which remains in force only for luxury houses, second houses, shops and sheds, all pending the reform (which I have just mentioned) that will have to face more important nodes. It will be with this reform that we will have to review the rules of taxation on real estate in order to make it less burdensome for taxpayers; we will have to review the current IMU rules and we will have to consider the whole issue of complex taxation and therefore the forecast deduction of the tax on real estate used for productive activities from corporate income. With the suspension, however, the majority showed special attention to Italian households who were strongly sensitive to the issue of real estate taxation because of the high share of households that own a house. The current economic crisis has accentuated this sensitivity, as more and more taxpayers face difficulties in paying the tax. The reasons for fairness have justified the exclusion from the suspension of certain particular categories that we have indicated. As a whole, there are almost 20 million dwellings benefiting from this measure and 13 million appliances. The extension of the benefit also to agricultural land and rural buildings is an important aid to agricultural enterprises, which see the tax burden reduced at a very sensitive time for their activities. The total exemption from the tax with regard to the housing assets of the former IACP is, from the point of view of the level of maintenance and conservation of the assets, as well as the possibilities of development and increase of the same, a remarkably positive element. On the municipal front, the text introduces a safeguard as regards the cover to be guaranteed for the suspension of the IMU. The municipalities were safeguarded for the June instalment in a logic that respects the rates decided by the various municipalities. In particular, paragraph 2 of Article 1 amends the rules on the use of cash anticipation, allowing the municipalities to obtain further advances corresponding to the loss of revenue, calculated on the basis of the data on the revenue actually collected in 2012. Moreover, in order to safeguard the municipal administrations from the financial burdens deriving from the use of the aforementioned treasury advances, estimated at over 18 million euros for the year 2013, it has been established that the interests will be supported by the State through a series of measures. With the aim of safeguarding public finances and the stability of state finances, Article 2 introduced a rule that the reform of property taxation should be implemented in accordance with the policy objectives set out in the 2013 Economic and Financial Document and in line with the commitments made during the European Semester with the European institutions. Finally, if the reform is not adopted by 31 August 2013, the current framework will continue to apply. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Moscardelli, I invite you to conclude your speech because the time at your disposal is almost exhausted. Mr Moscardelli (PD). So, from this point of view, we don't have any elements of vacuum. There are other speeches which, however, for reasons of time, I will not indicate. I would like to take advantage of the few seconds left to express satisfaction with the acceptance in the Commission of the agenda G/843/6/6 and 11, signed by my fellow Senators Di Giorgi, Lepri, Maturani, Susta and others, who refer to Legislative Decree No 23 of 2011 on the ICI exemption in relation to the properties of non-commercial entities intended exclusively for welfare, social security, health care, education, accommodation, cultural, recreational and sporting activities, i.e. the second-degree legislation which has been entrusted with the solution of a series of definitions and notions in order to make effective the measures relating to exemption and issues relating in particular to buildings for commercial and non-commercial use. With this agenda, the Government is committed to taking immediate action so that this rule - as we remember - can be made effective for the benefit of hundreds of thousands of organizations and volunteers, who are an absolutely essential asset for us. [[Applause from Senator Astorre.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u18	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u19	I call the rapporteur, Senator Sacconi.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u20	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will make brief concluding remarks about this debate because, as I have said, the request that I renew to the House is to confirm the text adopted by the Commission and previously approved by the House of Members. In particular, Senator Ichino's considerations deserve attention and probably corrective rules as well. However, the legitimate expectation by many workers and many workers must prevail that, after a long interruption, subsidies will finally be paid which I hope, on the basis of criteria that will be the subject of the decree referred to in the law, will be such as to avoid the repetition of those pathological behaviors that we have pointed out, since the social shock absorbers by way of derogation must be oriented mainly to the continuation of jobs that can reasonably be reactivated over time and, therefore, to the continuity of the companies to which they refer. It is very true that passive policies, which consist precisely in the provision of subsidies, should be linked to active policies, i.e. in terms of retraining services or accompanying a different job opportunity. But over the course of these years we have experienced really extraordinary conditions and I think that overall it was right to devote most of the resources to income support especially when this income support allowed the continuation of the employment relationship. Of course, it was more guilty of the absence of active policies when the regions decided to use, in the way I pointed out in my report, the instrument of mobility by way of derogation, which presupposes the consummation of the employment relationship, when it was therefore clear that there was a need to provide accompanying services to another job opportunity. It is precisely through the renewed understanding with the Regions that the Government will have to draft that decree containing the criteria of use of the resources, and in that center also verify the connection between active policies and passive policies, especially with reference to the use of mobility in derogation. In the measure that we will examine in the next few days we will set ourselves objectives of strengthening the network of labour services, that network which includes both public services and private services, as well as, still, services of a private or social nature precisely in order to make more effective the expectation of workers and workers who have seen the resolution of the employment relationship not to be left alone in the search for a new job opportunity. I therefore hope that the Senate Assembly will reject the amendments, some of which we will also call for withdrawal, in the belief that the most effective response at the moment is the timely adoption of the measure under consideration and the consequent start of the administrative activities aimed at providing such long-awaited subsidies.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u21	I call the rapporteur, Senator Marino Mauro Maria.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u22	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my thanks for the debate and for the ideas that have emerged, which I found extremely interesting. I would like to focus on a political point that cannot be ignored in relation to the comments that have been made. There is a red thread that connects the interventions of Senator Paglini and Senators Santangelo and Orellana, even if with different nuances, where it was claimed that the suspension of the IMU had led to did not know what. Senator Paglini called it an action of apple and apple to the detriment of the citizens. This theme was partially taken up by both Senator Munerato, who had declared himself disappointed by the first document of the new Government, because it was expected more, and by Senator Council, who made some considerations that deserve a clarification. The answer to the first considerations is that what is considered an element of weakness is instead an element of strength. We are faced with the fact that the suspension of the IMU will bring about the first act of a process which will then take place and which is part of an overall framework. And we must not lose the overall framework of reference if we want to understand what the meaning of this measure is: not the logic of the intervention spot, not that of the melina, but the first step for an overall redefinition of taxation on the real estate system. This is the other side of the work medal that was developed in the 6th Commission to which I referred in the introductory report and to which I will return shortly. I was talking about different shades. Senator Santangelo, for example, made a precise and punctual reference to the question of the decrease of the IMU for properties intended for tourist-receptive use. Look at the fact that significant progress has been made in the Commission from this point of view with the transposition of certain agendas. One, for example, mentioned in his speech by Senator Moscardelli, is paradigmatic: I am referring to the agenda G/843/6/6 and 11, signed by Senators Di Giorgi, Lepri, Maturani and Susta and other senators. Where there is the will to predetermine what will be the port point of the action carried out with an understanding from Parliament and the Government, there is the possibility to determine how we will redefine a broad and complex matter. Focusing only at its initial point does not allow us to see the picture as a whole and we can consider it slimming; but when instead we perceive the full extent of it, we understand that the situation is absolutely not this. The overall picture must be taken into account in many respects. The Senator-Council, of whom I always appreciate the speeches, said that this IMU is completely different from the one originally created. Surely it has undergone an evolution, first with the anticipation that it had with the decree saves Italy. However, I would like to ask: does that type of IMU still make sense when we come back to the issue of fiscal federalism and we will have to take into account the whole issue of fiscal federalism, in addition by revising the system of the local government through the approval of the Charter of Self-Governments and establishing that the functions are first decided and then the necessary resources are allocated for these functions to be carried out? Here, in the desire not to face things like so many commercials and to try to clearly and simply determine the objective of our legislative action, I appreciated Senator Orellana's line when he said that the title of the decree-law seemed to be that of a Wertmüller movie. I agree with that because I think we need to be inspired by the homogeneity of legislation that would make the type of legislation we are going to do absolutely better. Precisely because we are aware of all this we have come to meet the Government's request. With the Executive we want to have a dialectical and constructive attitude and arrive at a rapid conversion of this decree-law because (the Government itself has explained it to us and we have shared and approved it) the approval of this decree-law serves to give certainty to the law and therefore becomes a prodromic act, a prerequisite for the presentation of an overall bill on the taxation of property that will have to be born in a dialectical relationship with Parliament, considering the work that is carried out on the cognitive investigation on the taxation of securities, knowing that this is one of the passages. Another important issue, in fact, has to do with what is happening in the House of Deputies. With the rapid approval of the tax delegation, there will be a redefinition of the cadastral stigmas, which will be one of those elements that will allow to act according to the principles of fairness and justice in the review of taxation. In the meantime, we will have to identify an instrument that will allow this transition: once we have approved the tax delegation, we will have five years ahead of us before it goes to order and since the interventions we have to make are urgent we cannot lose this too as an important point of view. In the light of these considerations, we hope that this measure will be approved quickly, knowing that it is the first part of a path we want to take together with the Government, where Parliament has its centrality by returning to Parliament and the Government performs its executive function without expropriating it through the use of the decree-law, in order to put its hand back to the complex system of real estate taxation, inspiring this action to a level of equity, which our country extremely needs. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u23	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your speeches and your replies. I can only confirm what has already been authoritatively suggested by the two rapporteurs, Senators Marino Mauro Maria and Sacconi, stressing once again the urgent nature of this measure which gives a first response to some negative characteristics of the performance of our public accounts and our economy and which, therefore, requires rapid approval. This is used to respond to those suffering in crisis areas for closure of companies and suspensions. It is important to support the incomes of these workers at a particularly difficult time. This is why, among these urgent measures, there is the refinancing of the derogation fund and mobility. Knowing that this refinancing will not be sufficient to meet the needs that the Regions will manifest in the coming months for requests related to social shock absorbers by way of derogation, we promise to intervene later with further refinancing and aid. But it is important to take this decision immediately and give the regions the opportunity to use these additional resources. We are aware of the problems that have also arisen in relation to the granting of social shock absorbers. These concessions were not always based on principles of efficiency and sometimes even equity, having to face very heterogeneous situations in the territory and also referring to agreements between unions and regions in the individual regions, which often also adopted different criteria for the granting of shock absorbers. On the other hand, in the decree-law it is expressly provided that the Government - in particular the Ministers of Labour and the Economy issue an interministerial decree to define the criteria of concession. We know that the House has approved an amendment on the basis of which this interministerial decree will require prior opinion of the relevant Commissions of the two branches of Parliament, so you will have the opportunity to intervene at this stage to give suggestions on how to address those criteria and to standardize them also on the national territory. As far as the suspension of payment of the IMU is concerned, all I do is repeat what has been said authoritatively. This is a moment of transition towards a radical reform of the tax but also the structure of the tax levy in our country that we will have to do by implementing the tax delegation. This will have to be done very quickly with regard to the IMU, because we know that a solution will have to be found by the end of August. This is required by the general economic conditions, but also by the political conditions which concern the balance within the current majority. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all I do is to make the two rapporteurs' points by suggesting that the measure be approved as soon as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u25	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinions expressed by the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u26	The first standing Commission, which has examined the draft law in its capacity, shall, as far as its competence is concerned, deliver a non-obstacle opinion. Having also examined the amendments referred to it, it expresses, as far as it is competent, the following opinions: - on amendment 1.0,200 not precluded opinion, on the assumption that the transitional rules provided for therein relate exclusively to state-owned property; - on the remaining amendments not precluded opinion. The Economic Planning Commission, budget, examined the draft law in title, - taken note of the Government's clarifications about the adoption of a prudential criterion regarding the quantification of the coverage referred to in Article 1, paragraph 4, of the text of the decree-law, in particular with reference to the forevision of the cost of access to treasury advances in the hypothesis, although unlikely, that all the Municipalities will access it; - also took note that the use of the administrative surpluses allowed by paragraph 2-a of Article 1 does not affect the additional amounts not bound and whose use is prohibited by Article 187, paragraph 3-a of the TEU (d.lgs. 267/2000); - finally, taking note that the Government has ensured the availability of the resources necessary for the extension of fixed-term employment contracts relating to the needs of the Prefectures and the Police in the matter of immigration expresses, as far as its competence is concerned, an opinion which does not preclude the following observation: - the use of the resources of the Cohesion and Development Fund and those relating to the Treaty of Italian-Libical Friendship, as referred to in Article 4 (1) as capital account resources, involves a dequalification of expenditure. The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the amendments relating to the draft law in title, submitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as it is competent, an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution on amendments 1.11, 1.12, 1.13, 1.17, 1.18, 1.19, 1.20, 1.21, 1.22, 1.24, 1.25, 1.26, 1.27, 1.28, 1.29, 1.30, 1.31, 1.32, 1.34, 1.36, 1.46, 1.42, 1.43, 1.44, 1.45, 1.46, 1.47, 1.48, 1.49, 1,200, 1,201, 1.202, 1.203, 1.0.3, 2.1, 2.2, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 4.11, 4.16, 4.16, 4.17, 4.19, 4.20, 4.22, 4.22, 4.23, 4.25, 4.30, 4.31, 4.32, 4.33, 4.34, 4.30, 4.20, 4.201 and 4.0,200. The opinion was simply opposed to proposals 1.0,200 and 4.26. There are no comments on the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u27	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1 of the draft law. I note that the amendments are intended to refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments Nos 1.32 and 1.34. Amendment 1.32 concerns the IMU for the category of rural buildings. I would like to remind you that the Monti Government had undertaken, with the introduction of the tax, inter alia with the whole agricultural world, to make a check if there had been an outcast and, therefore, a higher than expected revenue, and then to return to the issue. We have established from the data that we have been given that there has actually been an increase in revenue for 2012. Therefore, with Amendment 1.32 we propose that we abide by the commitment made with agricultural organisations and, therefore, move the extra-tragettito, derived precisely from the tax on rural buildings and used for agricultural purposes, to implement the National Solidarity Fund. I would remind you that this Fund deals with actions to compensate farmers in the event of natural disasters and that it is highly deficient in relation to the identified needs and emergencies that continue to occur in the country, as we have also noted this weekend, in which serious problems have occurred. Amendment 1.34 also concerns the category of rural buildings. I would also like to recall the commitment made to register rural buildings in the land register, with the forecast of a deadline. We propose, Mr President, since it has been a fairly long procedure, and precisely because of the technical complexity and the large number of adjustments, that, for the inclusion provided for in Article 13 of Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, there should be an extension until 30 September 2013 to allow all situations to be regularised. By the way, this regularization would lead to an increase in revenue.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I shall present the amendments 1,200 and 1,201. The threshold of the crisis requires us to use effective and definitive instruments to address and resolve the tax burden on citizens as a perennial sword of Damocles. In the agricultural sector, in the matter of own municipal tax, the previous Government has adopted instruments - as my colleague De Petris said - that have only aggravated the crisis in a sector already strongly penalized also by the continuous consumption and indiscriminate use of biocidal products. In particular, the assimilation of rural buildings to urban buildings appears to be at an estimated level not viable, because the rural buildings, as instrumental to the ordinary development of agricultural activity, constitute a cost item of the agricultural budget to be considered as having a cadastral rent of zero. By their nature, this assimilation is not possible for rural buildings. In this case the Government once again appears incapable of taking responsibility for doing rather than postponing. We have to say: to postpone you are very good, it seems to us that you are enjoying it. Too bad there is no prize contest for those who send back more! We citizens have repeated over and over again - and we shall repeat this infinitely - that it is not possible to continue to penalise this sector, which is considered to be of primary importance, thereby penalising the labour sector and the production of the agricultural market. We are on the side of the citizens, we are the citizens, we are the voice of the citizens. The 5 Star Movement therefore continues to reaffirm the usefulness of this tax and formally asks for its elimination: I repeat, the elimination; we do not ask for its suspension, because suspending it would only prolong the agony. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u30	Mr President, Amendment 1,202 seeks to draw attention to a particular category of land: these are agricultural land which has obtained a variant but which has not been included in a farm use plan. IMU is imposed on them as if they were agricultural land, not on agricultural land, but on buildings which have a clearly higher value than that laid down for agricultural land. We are, therefore, in a sort of limbo that must find an appropriate regulatory solution. In fact, it must be clarified whether it is agricultural land or, rather, land that, having a peculiarity, must be considered as land that has already had a different development. In this way we have a situation of difficulty which is added to another difficulty: not only are agricultural land penalised, but these which do not have their own definition are further aggravated, although they are not subject to any expansion of an urbanistic character, because the implementation process has not been completed. These are lands that are already suffering. In fact, this is a stage in which agricultural land, unfortunately also for atmospheric and environmental reasons, is suffering greatly from the heavy economic crisis; we cannot go and add other categories for which interpretation is always for the benefit of those who must receive, of those who must introit money. It seems to me that the situation must find a clear regulatory solution. That is why I insist that this amendment be accepted. I know that there is a problem of coverage on this proposal, but, Mr President, I believe that on such matters we should resolve the budgetary problems, because we must have priorities. We need to set a priority order. We must put what we want to do and what we do not want to do on the table of our political agenda, and this seems to me to be one of the issues that we need to hear more. That is why I ask that the proposal be put aside, or that another solution be found, another cover, but I ask that the problem be solved because it involves a great many people and needs a solution of a regulatory nature, because in law limbo cannot exist. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u31	Mr President, with Amendment No 1.17 we are trying to respond to a principle of fairness and justice. In practice, with the simple increase, with respect to the sums already provided for in paragraph 4, of 2 million euros, we ask to give a response to those citizens who have found themselves having the houses in which they lived unattainable and uninhabitable because of the delays by the State of the payments in order to proceed to their reconstruction. We are talking about those Italian citizens who are unable, due to natural disasters, to reside in their homes. With this amendment we ask at least that these citizens obtain a minimum of justice: do not pay the IMU or, in case they have already paid it, have access to the tax credit. I believe that the Italian State must at least give an answer. We are simply talking about EUR 2 million of further commitment by the State. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to refer in particular to the amendments relating to state property concessions and municipal budgets. We have decided to withdraw amendment 1,203 and to table an agenda, the content of which we have also seen in the Budget Committee with the Government. The other amendment is 1.0,200. We withdraw them both and turn them into agendas that have been evaluated, as I said, also with the Government and that are also signed by senators of other political groups. Basically, it is a part of an agenda that commits the Government to regulate the provisions concerning municipal revenue when defining the Stability Act and to make possible, for the purpose of drawing up the budget, the reference to the revenue of the previous year. The second proposes, through an increase in revenues as a result of increased burdens on owners of maritime state property concessions for recreational and tourist use, to allow a response to the European Union suitable to prevent the infringement procedure for the infringement that Italy already commits, not having yet redefined the system of state property concessions, as it had undertaken to do by 17 April 2013.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u33	As the Minister of the Interior has arrived, in order to move on to the next item on the agenda, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u34	The next item is the urgent statement by the Minister of the Interior on the case of Alma Shalabayeva. As established by the Conference of Leaders, after the intervention of the representative of the Government, each Group will have ten minutes. I call the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was given today the report by the Head of the Department of Public Security, as well as Chief of Police, Prefect Alessandro Pansa, on the well-known story of the two Kazakh ladies, Mother and Daughter. Among the various possible ways of making these statements public, the deep respect that the Government has towards Parliament leads us to report directly to Parliament the conclusions of the internal investigation of the Head of Police. I am here to report on something I had not been informed of, about which no other government colleague had been informed, about which the President of the Council had not been informed. And I am here to report, through the final report of the internal investigation conducted, how and why this has happened and what needs to be done so that this never happens again: that is, that a Minister and the entire Government are not informed of such a significant affair. That's why I'm here. I am here to make it clear to Parliament and to the public what has happened and for which we have taken the decision, at the end of my report, to put on the website of the Ministry of Interior the full version of the report that I will benefit from during my speech. I am also here to confirm in anticipation what the Government has done post factum, what the Government has done after the episodes to give legal assistance, to continue to ensure the utmost commitment to follow carefully every profile of international protection and protection of human rights related to the matter, what we have done after June 2nd and what we will continue to do from this evening onward. The administrative inquiry is at the heart of the reconstruction of the case. Its findings are composed of two parts: the first part consists of an analytical reconstruction, day by day and - where necessary - now for now, of what has occurred; the second part - which is the one that, highlighting the quotes, I will read you - is the one that makes the exact diagnosis of how it could happen that the Government was not informed of the story. From this moment on, what I'm about to say is a quote from the final report of the investigation by the Head of the Department of Public Security. The researches of the Kazakh fugitive Ablyazov Mukhtar began in the national territory on 28 May at the input of Ambassador Adrian Yelemessov. The trial initiated by this information is exhausted in an operational phase of judicial police consisting of two searches in the villa of Casal Palocco indicated as the hiding place of the fugitive, in the seizure of money, electronic material and a passport, in the denunciation for the crime of false charge of Shalabayeva Alma, without the Muktar being traced. The police operation then resulted in an administrative procedure relating to the expulsion of the fugitive's wife. The task entrusted to the writer is to ascertain the lack of information to the Government on the whole story that, while being fully regular, and these quotes are taken from the official statement of Palazzo Chigi, "presented from the beginning non-ordinary elements and characters. And here the quotes are closed inside the quote of Prefect Pansa. This task is therefore aimed essentially at identifying where the ascending information flow has stopped. It is clear that with regard to the first part of the matter it will be necessary to verify whether all the police officers involved were aware that the wanted Kazakh was also a political dissident in his country. It is also necessary that, with regard to the administrative part of the whole affair, the implementing procedures of the expulsion be verified which, beyond their clear legitimacy, highlight non-ordinary characters. First, it must be reiterated that at no stage of the affair, until the execution of the expulsion with the departure of the woman with the child, Italian officials had any news that Ablyazov, husband of the Kazakh town expelled, was a political dissident fleeing Kazakhstan and not a dangerous wanted in several countries for common crimes. At no time has it been received or identified in the police archives information that would take over the refugee status of Ablyazov himself. Indeed, the documentation provided by the Kazakh ambassador, a diplomat officially accredited to the Italian Government, signalled it as an element related to organised crime and even to international terrorism. Secondly, it should be pointed out that during the entire investigation and the consultation of all the documents provided, it does not appear that Shalabayeva Alma or her defenders have never submitted or announced an application for asylum, although they have the possibility, nor did it appear that the aforementioned Kazakh citizen has shown or claimed to have a residence permit issued by Schengen countries, which the defenders did only in the appeal against the measure. In this regard, it should be noted that when for the first time Shalabayeva Alma is conducted at the immigration office, that is, on the morning of 29 May, she was in the company of her brother-in-law who, when verifying his status as a foreigner in Italy, claimed to be the holder of a Latvian residence permit, then issued by the Schengen country. In the circumstances, it was found that the claim was well founded and the foreigner was released. All this happened in the presence of Shalabayeva Alma who could also claim ownership of similar document. Incidentally, it should be noted that the statements reported by the press that the aforementioned Seraliyeu Bolat was beaten during the break-in are unfounded, bringing back wounds to the face. In fact, the aforementioned Seraliyeu at 7.20 p.m. on 30 May went to the hospital Aurelia Hospital where he reported that at 11 p.m. on 29 May he had suffered an assault at his home, that is in the villa of Casal Palocco, reporting injuries judged to be healable in five days. It should be noted that the foretold was photographed at 6 pm on 29 May and had no facial injury and that the intervention at the villa of Casal Palocco took place in the night between 28 and 29. On the other hand, the search was repeated on the 31st. The reconstruction of the case, displayed chronologically above, i.e. in the chronological index that we will then publish on the site, and validated in its phases by the competent judicial authorities, suggests that the first part of it has correctly followed all information circuits both descendants and ascending, i.e. from the Ministry to the moving body and vice versa. The second part, on the other hand, stopped in the ascending phase at a level that did not involve the structures of direct cooperation of the Minister to whom it was competent to inform him. The following chronology can be reconstructed from the reconstruction of the whole story and from the statements acquired by the vice chief of the prefect vicar police Alessandro Marangoni, from the deputy general director of public security and central director of the prefect criminal police Francesco Cirillo, from those of the prefect Alessandro Valeri, head of the Secretariat of the Department of Public Security, from those of the prefect Gaetano Chiusolo, central director of crime, and from those of the quaestor of Rome, Fulvio Della Rocca. On the morning of 28 May, the Kazakh Ambassador to Rome, Adrian Yelemessov, tried to contact the Minister of the Interior, Mr Angelino Alfano, unnecessarily. On the same day the foretold diplomat goes to the Roma Police Station - Mobile Squad, where he gives the necessary indications for the capture of the Kazakh fugitive Ablyazov Mukhtar, emphasizing its dangerousness. On the evening of May 28, the ambassador provides the same information to the Head of Cabinet of the Minister of the Interior and to the Prefect Alessandro Valeri, head of the Secretariat of the Department of Public Security. The latter contacts the manager of the mobile team who confirms that he is already informed and that he has started all the subsequent activities. Prefect Valeri also informs Prefect Cyril, who is responsible for Interpol and who carries out all the activities already described and indicated in Annex 1 to the Prefect. The report is full of annexes. The Prefect Valeri himself informs Prefect Gaetano Chiusolo that in turn activates the Central Operations Service of the State Police, which has as its task to coordinate and follow the activities of mobile teams. The vice chief vicar prefect Marangoni is also informed of the circumstance. The dual activation of the fugitive's research by the Kazakh ambassador will have negative results and by the same prefect Valeri will be communicated to the Cabinet of the Minister of the Interior. At that time, as in the following days, there was no doubt either that the wanted man was a political opponent of the Kazakh Government and that he could be the subject of retaliation. The issue of detention and removal from the national territory of Shalabayeva Alma seems to have taken on a significant dimension for the Kazakh diplomatic authorities. In fact, the expulsion procedures of Shalabayeva Alma have been carried out, as is correct, by the Kazakh consular authorities that have been used to provide all the necessary information for the execution of the expulsion order and to issue the necessary documents for the expatriation of both Shalabayeva Alma and her child Ablyazov Alia. The involvement of the Kazakh diplomatic authorities has not, however, been limited to this phase but has also been substantial in alerting the office to the utmost attention for security reasons until it comes to provide a private flight dedicated to the transport of the two Kazakh towns from Rome to Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan. Even at this stage, as pointed out by the head of the immigration office of the police station in Rome in his report of 3 June, no information had been received indicating relations of kinship with a "Kazakh political dissident." The aforementioned official, first official of the State Police, Dr Maurizio Improta, stated, as shown by the accompanying Annex No 20, that he had not informed any of his superiors of the direct flight for the removal of the woman, not having been specified to him by the adviser of the Kazakh embassy that the flight had been specially arranged for the same. In fact, the official reports: "I begin to read the quote of the official, "In relation to the plane with which the woman was repatriated, it should be specified that on May 30, when I asked for the certification of the Kazakh identity of the woman, the diplomat present in the office, Councilman Khassen, asked me how we would return her if the measure had been validated by the judge. In the event I explained that the return would take place after validation and even after receipt of the clearances by the competent judicial authorities. I explained that since there was no direct flight to Kazakhstan, we would use the route Rome Moscow - Moscow Astana. In the circumstances, Councillor Khassen told me that probably, within a few days, there would be a direct flight from Ciampino. The same recommended maximum caution because in the change of plane in Moscow there would be the risk that armed men, paid by the fugitive husband, could attempt the liberation of the woman. On the other hand, the " alert " on the danger of the subject made this statement plausible. I did not respond to the request as validation and acquisition of the pass were still necessary. The next day, when Khassen himself came to deliver the required passes following the validation of detention at the CIE, Councillor Khassen informed me that the aforementioned flight he had previously reported was leaving just that afternoon around 5 p.m. He reported that both he and the Kazakh consul were present on the flight and that therefore we could also decide to carry out the expulsion without escort, also because on board there was female flight personnel. On the basis of this statement, it was not apparent that the flight had been specifically taken for repatriation. At this point, after acquiring the additional clearances, I instructed assistant Laura Scipioni to take the passes to Ponte Galeria, and together with the staff speaking the Russian language, to accompany the lady to Ciampino. In the circumstances, given the previous reports, I ask the mobile team and the Digos, in the people of the managers, to assist in the safety with their own personnel, the transport to the airport of Shalabayeva. I do not understand that the woman represented assistant Laura Scipioni, who speaks English correctly, the desire to seek asylum. I do not understand that he has made a similar request to the other staff, including the one who speaks the Russian language. At the airport the woman and her child are delivered, precisely under the flight's ladder, to the Kazakh consul and the other diplomat. In fact, the delivery to the consular authorities, instead of taking place at the descent of the plane in Astana, was carried out, again to the consular authorities, departing from Rome. I did not inform my superiors in advance of the use of the Rome Astana flight, having no possibility to understand that it was the aircraft chartered specifically for the occasion. Not sending personnel on a mission to escort the woman, I didn't need to ask for further permission." This closes the commas of the Improta official. It should also be said - and here the report of Prefect Pansa takes up - that the requests made by Shalabayeva on the desire to be expelled to the Central African Republic could hardly be accepted if it is considered that it is a country for which UNHCR does not recommend forced returns. It is considered appropriate at this point to reconstruct the individual passages of the information flow, which has not come to the attention of the Minister of the Interior. Firstly, it should be pointed out that the information channel that brings together the necessary information to the Minister of the Interior is usually the Head of Cabinet of the Minister or directly the Head of Police, or their substitutes. The offices on which the information flow that refers to the Head of Cabinet is the Office of the Minister of the Interior, what refers to the Head of Police is the secretariat of the Department of Public Security. It is clear that not all information is brought to the attention of the Minister because it is previously selected in order of importance and relevance. This assessment shall be carried out at the top of the above-mentioned offices which, on the basis of experience, practice, needs, contingent circumstances and the general context, shall classify the information according to a priority order to which follow-up behaviours are linked. With regard to expulsions under the current legislation, the same, which are prepared with measures of the prefects, are not at all reported to the Minister that he can take all the most periodic knowledge of them at the purely statistical level. In the present case, it is clear that in practice there was no obligation to inform the Minister either because it was an ordinary expulsion or because there was no evidence or awareness that the husband of the expulsion was a dissident, so that no information was given to the Minister. It has to be said that the attention of another country so evident and tangible through the direct commitment of its ambassador and the use of a non-scheduled flight for the repatriation of the two Kazakh towns, should have been such an element of attention as to make the opportunity to bring the event to the attention of the Minister himself. In fact, the verification made by the writer, as previously reported, leads to believe that it has given importance only to the search of the fugitive, which was carefully followed and communicated in its negative outcome on 29 May by the leaders of the Department of Public Security at the Cabinet of the Minister. At that moment, however, attention was lacking to a timely and complete verification of the entire relationship triggered by the Kazakh diplomatic authorities which, having directly involved the Cabinet of the Minister, should have been followed at all stages of their relationship with the territorial bodies, to which the mere operation is entrusted. The Department of Public Security has not followed for nothing the phase relating to the expulsion of the wife of the wanted, to which the territorial organs have attributed a mere value of bureaucratic ordinaryity, as can be seen also from the type of involvement of the prefecture of Rome that has prepared the expulsion order, whose request has been received by fax and without solicitations or special warnings. The key point of the reconstruction is therefore to understand why the information flow that up to a certain point involved the secretariat of the Department and the Cabinet of the Minister has stopped and in the final phase it would be blocked at the level of territorial offices. In fact, the Quaestor of Rome, heard by the writer in the context of the ordered administrative inquiry, claims that he did not directly give information to the Department during the various phases of the activity carried out by its offices, because he was aware that the same Department was directly informed by the same offices of the police station. On this point the writer's attention has been focused, as here too emerges the different management of the two phases of the story: that of the researches of the fugitive and that of the expulsion of the wife. From the acts taken, we have precise information on the correctness of the information flow until the negative results of Ablyazov's research are acclaimed. With regard to the subsequent phases, Prefect Valeri remembers only the information relating to the judicial police phase but does not remember when he learned of the expulsion of the woman and the execution of the expulsion itself. The manager of the Immigration Office, who has maintained relations with the territorial investigative bodies, Mobile Squad and DIGOS, has not activated autonomous channels of information either towards the quaestor or the Department of Public Security, not having perceived the extraordinary way in which the expulsion was carried out. In concluding terms, it appears that the Department of Public Security did not follow in all its phases the process stimulated by the Kazakh diplomatic authorities that would have wanted to directly invest the Minister but that they had managed to reach only his Chief Cabinet. The Department of Public Security itself has followed the evolution of the initiatives of the Kazakh diplomats only to a certain extent, as if it were to respond to the Cabinet of the Minister only with regard to the possible capture of the fugitive and not of the whole operation. So much for the measures that Your Ladyship intends to take. He closed the quotes. As far as the measures to be taken are concerned, as I said, I am here to account for an affair of which I have not been informed and of which the Government has not been informed. As we stated, as representatives of the Government, in the statement of 12 July, the formal regularity of the proceedings and its legal basis were established and validated by four separate measures of judicial authority of Rome: Prosecutor of the Republic to the court for minors on 30 May, Judge of Peace on 31 May, Prosecutor of the Republic to the court and Prosecutor of the Republic for minors on 31 May. To these measures must be added the investigation initiated by the Rome Public Prosecutor in respect of Mrs Alma Shalabayeva, to which belongs the dissecting order of the judge of the review concerning the money and memory card seized from the lady. However - this is what we said, it is what led to the internal investigation and what I take decisions for - the lack of information to the Government about the whole affair that, however, had from the beginning non-ordinary elements and characters remains serious. We must work so that this never happens again. So, I asked the Chief of Police, the Head of the Department of Public Security, for an overall reorganization of the Department itself, starting with the summit of the immigration sector, that is, the Central Directorate of Immigration. I have accepted - and I have done so with deep respect for your honorable career as a brilliant state official - the resignation of my Head of Cabinet and I have proposed the change of the head of the secretariat of the Department of Public Security. So, I accepted the resignation of the Chief of Cabinet, asked for the change of the head of the secretariat of the Department of Public Security and an overall reorganization of the Department of Public Security, in whose content it is not the responsibility of the Minister to enter. However, I asked Prefect Pansa to give me as soon as possible a proposal for a general reorganization. This is accompanied by the inexhaustible action that the Government will put in place against the Government of Kazakhstan to ensure that human rights are not violated and that, if conditions exist, Kazakh citizens can be free to return to Italy. This is what Minister Bonino is doing and what the whole Government has done. I shall conclude by saying that I will do everything in my power and everything I have to do to reorganise so that this never happens again and that it can never be said that a Minister and an entire Government are not aware of what has happened. All of this I say in deep respect, which I want to reiterate to this House of course to find sharing, of those 100,000 policemen who every day serve the country guaranteeing the safety of our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the PDL, PD, SCPI and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u36	I thank Minister Alfano for having informed immediately, as soon as he received the report of the Chief of Police, the Senate, before even the press.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u37	Mr President, during the statements made by Minister Alfano I saw, alas, veterans of fibrillation turn back on their minds and even the many new recruits to this not illustrious profession have difficulties on how to project themselves towards the passages of the next few days (motions of mistrust and more). The first thing that can be seen is the profound sense of the institutions, the completeness of the information, the speed at which the information was provided and with which it was promised to make them available not only of the highest place, of the temple of democracy, the Assembly of the Senate, but of the whole country through their immediate networking. In his report Minister Alfano pointed out that the Kazakh is adjected several times as a "latitant" and very few times, and in a so-called "dissident." For the Italian jurisdiction the Kazakh was a fugitive, and only after a long time that he had established himself boldly within our borders, living in a beautiful villa, the Kazakhs took the initiative to denounce him to the police (legally valid initiative) and took the political decision to bring such denunciation to the highest levels of politics, that is to say to the Ministry of the Interior. In this we note, however, a lack, which is felt by those who, better than us, deal with the sector. Because Interpol's action had to be properly coordinated not only by the Department of Public Security, but also by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On this point we reserve the right to ask further questions and to have further clarification. Let's go back to what we find to be, not a dissident, but a fugitive. From the moment when the complaint intervened, from what the Minister Alfano reports, the necessary attention of this part of the world, where the right has its cradle, has been dedicated to the affair. Where, instead, the right is about to be born, where it is not yet circumstantiated and perimeterd, in the border of Kazakhstan, it is reported as an improper and late denunciation, a denunciation that is defended by us and brought back within the borders of the law, but that leaves us the doubt has been made not in the right times and with a retro-thought that is everything to be acclaimed. Beyond this, however, there can be no responsibility, because one cannot speak in a virtually valid way of objective responsibility. The government's behaviour was excellent, its extraneousness is clear, and the fact is equally clear that it cannot be attributed to a subjective responsibility and that an objective responsibility can only be brought back to this House by the veterans of fibrillation. Against this attempt at proditory fibrillation of our institutions, which is much more called upon to deal with, we are very pleased with the statements made by Minister Alfano and we invite him to proceed in his action and in his political activity. [[Applause from the LAG and PdL groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u38	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u39	Mr President, a few hours ago, Minister Alfano's chief of cabinet, Giuseppe Procaccini, resigned. It is conceivable, as has also been said in this House, that in the next few hours they will be added to his other equally authoritative resignation. The entire command line of the Viminale Department of Public Security seems to be involved in the operation that, as has been mentioned, in the last days of May last led to what we call illegal kidnapping and the repatriation of Alma Shalabayeva and her daughter. All except the summit of the pyramid, the Minister of the Interior. Is that credible? Is it possible that an operation of this importance and delicacy was decided, organized and completed without informing the responsible number one of the Minister of the Interior? Even if we want to give a positive answer at all costs, despite the many elements that attest to the opposite, is it credible that a minister does not notice anything, while before his eyes an operation of this size is carried out, and continues to ignore everything in the weeks and months that follow? In one case as in the other, in our view, that Minister cannot remain in his place. That operation, it must be remembered, was carried out in lightning times (just 48 hours) and with great disuse of means and men (at least 50 agents participated in the action), violating every rule, to the point of sending back the people kidnapped - this was, of a kidnapping - in their country with a private plane chartered by the Government of Kazakhstan. Is it plausible that all this was done by keeping the Minister in the dark? On May 28, the Kazakh ambassador met at the Viminale the Head of Cabinet, who received him in the place of Minister Alfano, who had been asked at first bar the interview, as he himself told us. It was on that occasion that the raid was decided to take place a few hours later. Can anyone really believe that the Minister himself was not informed when using 50 men, - I stress, 50 men - for a police operation? Is it normal, Minister, to use 50 men for what you called a normal expulsion? Moreover, of incredible elements this story, which covers our country with shame, presents far too many, and concerns not only the Ministry of the Interior, but also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, already protagonist, a few days ago, of the unfortunate and still unexplained episode of the closure of the national airspace, which I myself have repeatedly raised in this House, for the flight of the Bolivian President Evo Morales. On May 30, immediately after this rendition, which is even more serious than the already intolerable one of which Abu Omar was the subject, the Farnesina forgets to report to the immigration office that Alma Shalabayeva is the wife of an important Kazakh dissident and on the same day the prefect of Rome signs the decree of expulsion against the woman, giving them criminal precedents in reality non-existent. On 31 May the Kazakh embassy sent a fax to the immigration office of the police station in Rome to compliment the brilliant and above all rapid operation. Nor in this case, Minister, according to the official reconstructions, is there any mention of the fax and much less of the operation for which there were so many and so well deserved compliments. We're sorry to tell you this, but we really can't believe it. On 5 June, however, Minister, you - who also say you know nothing about the whole matter - feel able to ensure that all the procedures have been properly complied with. From that moment on, however, the Minister, according to the official version of the facts, goes back to forgetting what happened and for almost 40 days forgets to shed light on a very serious episode that, if it really had occurred without his knowledge, he should have felt even more intolerable, as is quite evident. These are just some of the dark elements that weigh on this affair and that, in our opinion, Mr Alfano has not been able or able to clarify. We do not want to join the numerous choirs of the backologists, but it is difficult not to suspect that behind this zeal of the entire apparatus of public security and these resounding violations of human rights and the laws of the State there are not only errors of assessment, but the defense of specific interests, perhaps linked to the energy sources of Kazakhstan. But this is not the place to deal with this issue, because we do not want to do behindology. Here we are simply discussing the possible responsibilities of a Minister of the Republic in an affair that has wounded the dignity and goodness of the Republic itself. Let's say things as they are: everything leads to the conclusion that in these hours Minister Alfano and with him the entire Government are working to find scapegoats to charge their responsibilities. Parliament and the whole country are given a truth as reassuring as it is false: no political responsibility, only incorrect and incapable officials, who have been promptly identified, affected and removed. However, this is not the first time that a political leader has tried to cover his responsibilities by asking Parliament to endorse an incredible story - let us say this - even at the cost of ridiculing himself in the name of the convenience and defence of a majority. It happened recently when Silvio Berlusconi inflicted a deadly blow on the credibility of democratic institutions by asking the parliamentarians of his majority to endorse the fantastic version of Ruby Mubarak's nephew. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] What was then the opposition (even the PD, of course) rightly rose in front of those lies, denouncing the wound inflicted on the dignity of Parliament, and with reason. We hope that today we will not play the same game and that we will not help to bring down the credibility of Parliament and the institutions simply because, unlike a few years ago, the political position has changed. But as I have already said, from the point of view of the conclusions, whether or not to believe this version changes very little for us. If it were true that everything took place under the Minister's eyes without him noticing anything, it would mean that his inability, unfortunately - we regret to call it so - was such as to make dangerous his stay in a place as nerve and delicate as the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]] In one case, as in the other, there are no alternatives, and it is certainly not enough to say, Minister, that we must work to ensure that a fact such as this never happens again, not only because we would have expected from you today, honestly, not only the reading of a report written by others, but also a very different deepening. Among other things, a few weeks ago, for infinitely less serious reasons, the then minister Josefa Idem chose the path of dignity and responsibility and voluntarily left his Dicastery. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] It would really be unacceptable if, today, for an episode of far greater importance, Minister Alfano instead remained in his place. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and the Senators Pezzopane and Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bitonci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u41	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Alfano for this information, although it is clear today that there is a great absentee, who is the President of the Council of Letta. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] He was supposed to be the one in this House to respond to this information. As I must point out, another important absentee involved in this whole affair: I am referring to Mr Bonino. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] We also think that, in order to comment on such detailed information, Minister, we should have received the text at least this afternoon: usually, as you know, before the information is read and after the debate develops. And such an important and detailed information in the contents cannot be commented upon immediately after his speech. However, what has happened is in our opinion disconcerting. We think above all of the minor, but in any case the fact that a mother and a child, two Kazakh towns with regular documents, are expelled and then repatriated in these ways embarrass us. It must also be clear and clear that the protection of human rights in this case has not been respected. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]] There is a minor who has been practically kidnapped, deported - they are strong words, but this is the reality - beyond his situation and his condition. And there is a real political responsibility in that it has happened. But this is not just an individual responsibility, Minister. We rather identify it as the collective responsibility of the entire Government. That is why we would have liked President Letta to be present today to answer our questions and to inform us about what happened. The press reports of requests to intervene directly on the Italian institutions. The expulsion of Mrs. Alma Shalabayeva and her daughter certainly created a strong embarrassment to the Italian Government both internally and internationally. The first statements made by members of the Executive reported, in fact, regular procedures despite, from the earliest reconstructions, the story appeared at least not clear and as such was then assessed on the merits by other representatives of the Government in office as well as by the tribunal of the second validation review. However, it is unlikely that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' justification for having been misled because of the maiden name of the lady, since the request for verification on the passport took place only after the raid in the woman's house. If this were really the case, Minister, the embarrassing justification of the Farnesina, we would be faced with a manifestation of dangerous amateurism. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] If, on the contrary, it were not, it would be conceivable to conduct in bad faith by elements of the personnel of the Ministry. Honestly, Minister, I would also like to talk to you about the role of Farnesina and Minister Bonino, who could not help but know: this is disconcerting. How could the Letta government not be informed about such a delicate operation? These are the clarifications you need to give. Why have the fundamental rights of status and diplomatic protection of the six-year-old woman and daughter been trampled on? Has the judiciary, which has repeatedly spoken, actually been confronted with the authorities, particularly on whether or not they were political refugees? In this respect it cannot be just a problem of a single Ministry, but we consider it a collective problem, of the entire Letta Government and, Minister, also of structure. Therefore, we are asking you officially (and we reiterate this concept) why President Letta is not here today to answer. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u43	Minister, from your words we take the deep regret that we have not been informed of this serious affair and the awareness of the profound seriousness of this delicate passage for the life of our institutions, as well as of a concern widespread in the country and in all of us for an episode that causes our country to plunge again into the darkest nights of the history of the Republic. It is unacceptable that one of the world's major democracies should have a bureaucracy in which you have used very harsh words, which we appreciate, and which is the protagonist of such appalling episodes. It will not escape you, Minister, that such incidents undermine our credibility at international level and relegate us to the margins of the most virtuous nations in the field of human and civil rights, as unfortunately international analyses have repeatedly reaffirmed. But what is more disturbing is the conviction, which clearly pervades large sectors of the security and defence apparatus, that it is beyond the law, removed from the direction of politics, almost unpunished with respect to acts and facts that, if only they were the subject of a thorough meditation, would certainly not be commissionable. Civic choice for Italy, Minister, takes advantage of his statements and the report that reconstructed this sad and disturbing story, which we will deepen, every opportunity to express a more complete evaluation, but considers positively and as due the resignation already resigned, which, however, are not sufficient with respect to the extreme gravity of the facts. It highlights the importance of the measures you have already announced and the need to dispel any doubt about possible subalternity, especially with regard to countries with which we have not secondary economic relations, but which are reprehensible from the point of view of civil and human rights. Civic Choice will follow the evolution that the story will probably have in the next few days and Friday will draw its own conclusions on the motion submitted, however inviting you, Minister, and the Government as a whole, to really implement all the initiatives already announced, administrative, disciplinary and legislative, in order to avoid that this never happens again. In view of the commitment you have made in this House today, we also trust that similar situations in our country may not really happen again. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups and Senator Scoma]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you have come here to tell a great lie and the terrible plot of a black film of a zeta series. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Minister, the great lie is that on the night of 29 May we were looking for a wanted man: it is not true and we do not say so. This is said by a European Parliament resolution of 18 April 2013 - of the European Parliament, Minister - which already focused attention on the behaviour of Kazakhstan, which was used to persecute the family members of political opponents, and warned our and other countries about these behaviours, because it was clear what was being done in Kazakhstan. I'll read you what they did. In this resolution it is written that on December 21, 2012, following the lawsuit initiated on November 20, 2012 by the Attorney General of Kazakhstan, the District Court of Almaty banned the Alga! party on the charge of extremism. It is still said that this ban - listen carefully, Minister - personally makes Aliyia Turusbekova, wife of Vladimir Kozlov, the leader of the opposition party. Do you realize, Minister? The wife of the leader of the opposition party, who is in jail with a seven-year sentence for vague and unfounded accusations, is accused - says the resolution - of being responsible for what an opposition party will do. And you know, Minister, what party was Alga? It was the party born from the ashes of what was called the Democratic choice of Kazakhstan, that is, the party of Mrs. Shalabayeva's husband: what you call a wanted man, was therefore the leader of Kazakhstan's main opposition party! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It was a political exile, Minister, recognized as such by the British Government. The great lie that is being told in this House, Minister, is that we were looking for a wanted man, while the intentions were clear. When a government rents a private plane costing 100,000 euros a day and takes it to Ciampino, it does not wait for a wanted one, because as you know, Minister (and you cannot tell us otherwise here), a wanted man with an international arrest warrant, if found by our police forces, should be extradited, not expelled. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That plane could have been there for months, for years! That plane wasn't waiting, Minister, for Shalabayeva's husband! He would have waited for you in vain. Do you know why, Minister? Because European countries do not extradite anyone, not even the worst criminals, to Kazakhstan. There are several pronunciations to real criminals who have not been extradited. Do you know why, Minister? Because international conventions, European legislation, the European Convention on Human Rights prevent even criminals from being extradited: not a mother or a six-year-old girl, but criminals cannot be extradited to a regime like the Kazakh one! [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups. The Senators of the M5S Group stand up]] You, Minister, come and tell us now that you did not know and that you did not know about it: this is not a credible story. It's the plot of a Z-series movie that our police officers betrayed their task. That is not the case, Minister. They have acted in the knowledge that they have received political cover, Minister, which comes from the head of your party, which is a member of the Kazakh dictator. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Because, as you will know, the dictator of Kazakhstan goes on holidays not in the villas of those police officers, but in the villas of Mr Berlusconi's associates. Don't tell us stories! [[The Senators of the M5S Group stand up and applaud. Comments from the PdL Group]] Do not be angry, Minister, for your responsibilities, with the men in uniform who defend freedom in this country and who have followed your orders, probably without understanding what they were doing or to please your Ministry and who knows who else. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then, Minister, you must carry out an act of responsibility that gives a rag of dignity to this country, which you have thrown into the mud with your work. His Ministry has muddled the name of Italy, has put at risk a woman and her child, who at this moment suffer: they are in conditions of restricted freedom and risk the child to end up in the orphanage and the woman, without guilt, in jail. In fact - let us remember - he was wanted, on accusations made, the husband and not the lady. But I wonder, Minister, which country do you plan to live in? In which civil, democratic and western country can a mother and a child be handed over to a dictatorship with a ferocity that has no equal, Minister? Nowhere! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to show you a document, since you say that Mrs Shalabayeva has not applied for political asylum. I have here Minister, a document from the Rome police station, which says that Mrs Shalabayeva, aware of the risks your child was taking, was trying to save her. Do you know what you said on May 29th at the police station? That the child was to be entrusted to Mrs. Venera. Why weren't you entrusted to Mrs. Venera? Minister, do you have the answer to this question? Or do we have to believe his story, that a person in grave danger, who had hidden in Italy, did not ask for political asylum? Do we have to believe his words or actions? The facts speak for themselves, Minister: draw your conclusions. [[The Senators of the M5S Group stand up. Live, prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u46	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u47	Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you for the promptness of the information you wanted to offer Parliament - as the President also pointed out - even before the media, respecting the parliamentary institutions and accepting the requests that had come from the Conference of the Heads of the Senate and, I believe, also from the House, where after this information will come. The story is certainly complex. You have announced that all documents and attachments will be published on the Internet, as it is right to do today, so we will also have the opportunity to examine and evaluate all the circumstances of the reconstruction you have provided. I understand - and I am not surprised, having seen so many in life - also the emphasis of the political confrontation that some want to feed. Moreover, we are talking about Kazakhstan, a certainly controversial country, whose democratic political identity is all to be defined, I must also say with great uncertainty on the part of everyone. I also heard a colleague talking about the place where the Kazakh Premier spends his holidays, but I see in a newspaper today that he met Obama, Chancellor Merkel, Barroso and Cameron, so even if he is a controversial character, this does not prevent the world nomenclature from meeting him, shaking his hand and confronting him. Then we know that Kazakhstan must gain democratic credibility in the international context and we do not find out today. So, if the Kazakh leader is certainly a character at the center of a thousand polemics and discussions, even the alleged dissidents are. If I had here a blackboard to write the list of the good and the bad, as was done at school once (now fortunately no longer done), I frankly would not know where to write one or the other, starting also from the authorities of the Kazakh Government, but also applies to the character we talk about, Ablyazov, and his family. He is probably the head of the opposition, a dissident, I don't know, but he is also a character to whom in the United Kingdom, in the very democratic Great Britain, huge assets have been seized, for several billions of dollars, euros or pounds. Of course, however, huge resources have been seized from this person, they have even been put on sale, so there are acts carried out in many countries against this character, which is probably not Garibaldi. I can't draw any conclusions. I don't have any investigative tools to let me know who Ablyazov really is. In the past, from what has been read in the chronicles, he was a collaborator of Nazarbayev, an exponent who had had a chance to grow in the business and banking world of that difficult and controversial country. He may be a dissident or a speculator. What we know is that Interpol has issued arrest orders endorsed by several countries, not only by its original country, where one could imagine retaliation, revenge or contrast, if he were just a dissident. It could be (who knows?==References====External links==* Official website From this, in fact, we must start: the department of public security, the police station, the bodies that have been punctually recalled in the report that the Minister of the Interior has carried out (and that in turn he has obtained from the head of the Police Pansa, quoted faithfully) have acted because Interpol has issued an order of capture, so it has acted on the basis of these facts. I would like to remind colleagues that rightly (and I do not say this ironically but seriously) praise the action and punctuality of the presence of the judiciary in this country that - as Minister Alfano, vice-president of the Council, but we already knew having read it on the news - four distinct measures of the judicial authority have endorsed these procedures also with regard to minors. In fact, the court of minors intervened, so no mistreatment, no abuse, since the organs called to manage these very delicate practices have been pronounced. Therefore, also the chain of command - and I start, on the announcement of reorganization that Minister Alfano has appropriately done in this Chamber, at the conclusion - has probably acted with shortcomings, with facts of which some have assumed responsibility, but on the basis of a endorsement of the judiciary of this country, of the proxy of the capital of Italy and therefore without referees. Then, I repeat, whether they were persecuted or anything else, it's all to see. As has also been mentioned here, Mrs Shalabayeva has not requested diplomatic asylum. There was talk of the Central African Republic: I read in the newspapers, but I do not know if it is true, that the lady in the past had been proposed as consul of Burundi. Now, I don't know if these were ways to escape Kazakh persecutions or to cover more or less ambiguous activities of this family. As the Minister for the Interior recalled earlier, in countries such as the Central African Republic, it is not recommended by international bodies to route people. I'm not an investigator, and I can't undo these mysteries, but there are so many. Probably, some circumstances will have been underestimated by the competent offices, it is possible, and we are here to discuss them in the Parliament of the Republic in the presence of a large part of the Italian Government, because the matter deserved it. I think it will continue to be discussed in the next few days. Some have announced parliamentary initiatives: we do not share them, I say so now, but they are provided for in the Regulations and will allow each one to give a decision. Our confidence in the Government and Minister Alfano is very clear and full, all the more so for the announcement of this reorganization that was made by the Minister of the Interior, and also in the appreciation of officials who have made difficult choices, evidently having found that this chain of command has emerged shortcomings. We welcome this reorganisation, but we remember Interpol's arrest warrant, the endorsement of four distinct measures of the judicial authority, the disturbing events that in the United Kingdom and in other countries have seen these people as protagonists, the fact that, when this lady's brother-in-law was able to show Latvia's credentials, immediately the police authorities took note of it and allowed her to stay in Italy, being a right title to remain. Some issues, such as the special flight, have now been referred to this House and we have listened carefully to them. These events certainly had to lead to deepening. Attention, however: the Kazakh Government will have many things to explain to the international community, but some alleged Garibaldi may not be so. So there should be some caution on everyone's part. The reorganization announced is the main answer to ensure that this chain of communications and information functions even more intensely, in a country that of expulsions perhaps should do more and not less, in a country that must not be paralyzed in its action for the protection of internal security and international relations, for a story that has seen not only some Asian Republics, but also countries of the West intervene with hardness and determination. We thank you, then, Minister Alfano, for the reconstruction you have offered us this evening. We too, as parliamentarians, draw some reflections to verify laws, international relations and the different organizations that you yourself have announced. However, let us reject all kinds of political speculation: if anyone has other intentions, let him say it clearly. We want the Government, also to ensure the security of Italy, to continue its action; we want it to do so in its entirety, therefore with the vice-president of the Council and Interior Minister Alfano, whom we thank for what he has told us and who can count on our loyal, total, full support. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u49	Mr President, we thank the Government and Minister Alfano for the information he has made to the Senate today and is about to render to the House, and for the timeliness of these communications. We, like others, stress that investing Parliament immediately, before we begin to examine the report under the microscope in the press, is an important and fair thing. We take note of your speech and of the essential facts contained in the report, which you have reported, namely that the chain that has developed has not come to inform the Minister. We reserve a proper deepening of all the information elements that you have given us, which are many and will surely deserve a thorough study from everyone. The information you gave us describes an anomalous, serious and inadmissible affair in a country like ours. I wouldn't stop at the bureaucratic data; let's face the reality: this is an act that he gave and from a serious blow to the image of the country, and we didn't need it at this time when Italy all, and the Government in the first person, are implementing a great effort to restore credibility to our country. In the things you have said, Minister, issues, issues and values of principle that are relevant in every mature democracy are called into question. First of all, the protection of human rights, always and still more when there are women and children, and our thoughts must go, precisely, to the situation of Mrs Shalabayeva and her daughter, who cannot be considered mere annotations in a relationship. There are also the effectiveness and proportion of police actions, as has rightly been widely examined, the way in which information is managed, the chain of roles and responsibilities within the state structures, which are fundamental requirements for transparency. You have spoken to us about all this and we are invested in all this: these are all great and very delicate issues, which cannot be concluded with uncertain or incomplete results. We take note of all the elements that already exist and we now ask you and all the Government to keep all the spotlight on the story on, that you do not spare energy in going to the bottom and following all possible developments, because it is not said that this story has finished saying things, truth and maybe even some mystery. There are many questions, many of them you have asked, or many answers to questions you have asked us, and many of them the report answers, but many others need further information, as you have read in the report itself; we will also reserve the right to point them out as soon as we have had the opportunity to look into them. Some issues remain for us in need of further study. For example: why can the Kazakh diplomatic authorities approach our police structures with such familiarity and direct relationship? Why has spasmodic attention on the family of the same authorities not aroused suspicion and some element of intelligent and prompt response? At what point is our confrontation with the Kazakh authorities today after the incident that has taken place? These are issues that need further study, and we ask the Government to keep Parliament constantly informed of all developments. Another decisive aspect here is that of responsibility. There had to be sanctions, and you have informed us of some of them, exemplary disciplinary measures commensurate with the seriousness of the matter. It is not the need for scapegoats but the physiological need to restore values, rules and hierarchies, and I believe that from here we will have to go further with a more general reorganization. But the important thing, and on this I want to conclude, is to fully understand the reasons: not only what happened in its details, but why it happened, who decided that this happened, for what needs, for what purposes, for which projects. This part, if possible, is even more important. We need clarity and transparency. We are at a time when a thousand hypotheses and illusions are being made: those who speak of Kazakh gas, those of secret services. These shadows must be removed. We do not care about the following, nor about the reconstructions of fantasy, but the shadows must be removed: Parliament must know what ground we are moving on and the whole country needs to be made transparently aware of these things. With these elements available, I believe that the political debate can also be fully free and live up to the task that it is called upon to carry out. I will stop here and take advantage of this speech to thank, because in these days our Senate and our House have played an important role, also played by the Human Rights Commission, chaired by Senator Manconi, who from the beginning of this affair has been interested in trying to give support precisely to the needs of human rights. I have read in your report, Mr Alfano, the will to work on this inexhaustible issue, not only so that this does not happen; not only bureaucratic omissions, but also a fall on the issue of rights must never happen again. I therefore believe that the contribution made by the Senate with the work of its Commission can be appreciated. With these intentions and this way of seeing things, we are therefore approaching the next steps in this matter. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u50	I declare closed the debate on the information given by the vice-president of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u51	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-68.ana.u52	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 17 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.11 a.m.
