ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:39 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u4	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, in the absence of Mr Santangelo and in order not to lose his good habits, I would ask you to vote on the Minutes after checking the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.42 a.m. and resumed at 10.03.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u6	Let's resume our work. I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 10.04).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00050, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other Senators, 1-00072, tabled by Senator Pagnoncelli and other Senators, 1-00126, presented by Senator Scavone and other Senators, 1-00136, presented by Senator Lumia and other Senators, and 1-00139, presented by Senator Endrizzi and other Senators, against the spread of gambling. I would remind you that in yesterday's afternoon sitting, following the conclusion of the debate, the continuation of the examination of motions was postponed. I communicate that the agenda has been presented G1, signed by Senators Lumia, Pagnoncelli, Romano, Cervellini and Scavone, and all motions have been withdrawn at the same time with the exception of motion No 50, signed by Senator Bitonci and other Senators, and motion No 139, signed by Senator Endrizzi and other Senators. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u10	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in favour of the G1 unitary agenda, while it is against motions Nos 50 and 139.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u11	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u14	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Senators and Senators, in this debate, which has seen numerous and precise speeches, a comparison has developed that has put us, too, of the Mixed Left Ecology and Freedom Group, in a position to converge on the agenda G1. However, this does not prevent us from making a consideration because the fact that emerges cannot be included in the ritual difficulties: we are faced with a real drama, with which we must not only deal rigorously with the substance and with which we must equip ourselves with instruments adapted to the evolution of the phenomenon, but above all pose a problem of perspective. Not to throw it on the generic, but I believe that this drama gives us a figure and in all the motions there is a precise reconstruction of data that are not cold numbers, but that speak of years of life of so many, hundreds of thousands, millions of Italian women and men lost physically in the act of gambling. Lost in terms of quality of a life no longer recognized, deprived of its dignity, in economic conditions not uncertain, but subject to this dramatic situation that involves not by chance the weakest, most exposed classes. From the generational point of view they are young people, and now also very young people under the age of 18 (so theoretically, so to speak, protected, but absolutely not so), and elderly people. We therefore urge the Government to take effective and consistent measures, such as avoiding applying discounts, as has happened, to authorized managers who have evaded the tax and who have been granted late payments, discounts that are not even granted to the individual citizen when committing such crimes or incurs similar forgetfulness: it is paradoxical that we are intervening in this direction! It is therefore urgent, from this point of view, to give a warning, a reflection that goes beyond the agenda. Reading, as happens to all of us, the considerations of experts such as sociologist Maurizio Fiasco, whom I know personally, we draw a split that denounces a dramatic drop in perspective in our country. I believe that it is on this social loneliness that we absolutely must act. The point is to have all the tools to intervene and adopt measures that can act above all on the disadvantaged categories, on the tragedy of unemployment, on young people and their loneliness, on the insecurity of the elderly, giving the prospects proper to a society, as it has been in our country until the past years. I am talking about a perspective that is primarily based on work: it is no coincidence that all the countries affected by the current global crisis, beginning with ours, have seen the peak of the scourge of gambling. It is in this sense that we must move and there we can begin to find the ban of the skein of answers that we know to be difficult. I'm gonna finish. The structures - I am talking about legal ones - are perhaps now one of the most organized and capillaries in our country. If I think of a city like Rome, from the most central areas to the most peripheral ones, the games rooms, the machines, these organized places are perhaps the most widespread presence: they are - perhaps - the most widespread commercial activity in our country. Obviously, you don't have to pull out who knows what studies, there's something sick inside this data, inside this reality. If for many young minors, in the hamlet and in the suburb, the games room becomes the only place to meet other peers and other people, we can not be surprised if it is inside that culture and within those disvalues that grow and become mature men and women. In addition to fundamental tools to hit gambling, I believe that we must offer a valid alternative that involves young and old for a process of transformation of our country that gives possibilities and opportunities not entrusted, precisely, to the drama of gambling that, as we know not only from studies, involves loneliness and mechanisms of extortion and blackmail that produce really great damage. The agenda includes this kind of commitment, and we do not hand it over to the government as a ticket: the aim is that the Commission will commit itself to continuing with the measures already taken and to launching, above all, a powerful awareness campaign. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Caleo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u17	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, for the reasons we have already set out in the general debate, and I will not repeat that, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) will vote in favour of the G1 unitary agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u20	SCAVONE (GAL). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to this House with this summary work on the motions that the various groups have put forward on such a dramatic problem that all of us are concerned with is the best way to start over and to talk about a country that has too often had the impression of hypocrisy and disorder that are unfortunately characteristic of our latitude. Gambling is not permitted by law: it is a crime. Yet, at the end of the 1960s, this type of reality was discriminated against. I want to remember once and for all the closure of the Casino of Taormina, which dramatically transformed one of the pearls of the Mediterranean, making it decay for years in a condition of tourism different from the important, elitist and controlled one that was present in that latitude, while in the rest of the country similar realities were maintained and survive still. Even in today's agenda and the subject of our motions, our country is characterized by the indecency of commitment, attention and space given to the forms of gambling that today has no equal in the world. There are 400,000 machines, over 7,000 authorized points where the game is freely conducted. I remember that there have been some regulatory attempts to reorder to protect the person. We all start with Decree-Law 158 of 2012, the so-called Balduzzi Decree, which provided for the protection of the most fragile and most exposed citizens a form of attention and prevention that has not yet been implemented; this really puts us in a position to reflect. I believe that this is the time for the Senate Assembly, all together, to commit the Government to a meaningful, true and important action to reorder the system, first of all on the level of authorisations. A concert had already been planned in 2011 between the State Monopolies and the Ministry of Health for the issuing of an inter-directional decree that would regulate, protect and follow the overall evolution of this tragic split that invests the great part of the population of our country; to date this provision has not seen the light, despite the determination of the Latium TAR, which has imposed that the decree be issued, as provided for by the norm. The deadline for issuing the decree, however, was postponed before 30 June of this year and then even 31 December 2013. For this reason, there is no time to lose. The boys are absolutely exposed: today one in two guys - as we have heard from the most significant data collected by the various Groups and reported in this discussion - had to do with gambling. In the outskirts of our country, and not only, the economic and social despair and the difficulty of a stable integration into the world of work induce this group of people, the most fragile and the most exposed, to take refuge in the game, hoping that it can be a solution, even if the most void among all, of enrichment or even of survival. The figures that have been quoted and which we have read are dramatic. At this moment in our country there are 49 billion gaming operations, from scratch cards to slot machines (which represent about 56 percent) and whatever else (I think of all video terminals and online games), strong legislation that has allowed, through a system of distance concessions, enrichments also at pathological risk of companies, some of which do not have a clear physiognomy. In this area too, there is a risk of money laundering or malicious infiltration. So, this is when we have a duty to say enough about this. There is a rule that restricts advertising, but perhaps it is not enough. I remember that in our country advertising for cigarettes is prevented; yet, tobacco causes pathologies, damage to the person and dependence far lower than those of the game. Among other things, today we are witnessing an increase in cases of ludopathy, in the pathology of gambling against which Minister Balduzzi wanted to put a brick on the level of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, which risks, among other things, to aggravate the total costs of health care in our country, whose services of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation are not sufficiently organized. In the so-called Balduzzi decree there is also provision for the redeployment of structures (over 6,000), often located at the centres of aggregation: I refer to the centres of the lower and upper schools, recreational sports centres, social centres, places of worship, those of the center and those of the periphery, most exposed, of our cities and of our rural suburbs. This can be the litmusol map of a country that frees itself from the hypocrisy of not allowing from the normative point of view, and then to determine, through alchemies, as happened in our country, the spread of these dramatic lifestyles. That is what we are asking the government today. Last but not least, there is the problem of authorisations, relating to this sector, which in our country depend on old decrees, old regulations that, even if revised, are now surpassed by history. They include municipal, police, and Monopolies' permissions. Therefore, the integration of the licensing system, the verification of the maintenance of what is planned, a new control system that prevents young people exposed to this threat from accessing paid gaming rooms, bingos or other places of aggregation such as sports betting sites are necessary. This is an imperative that this Government cannot escape. It is with this wish, with this pressing request that the Group Grandi Autonomous and Freedom, adhering to the joint work of synthesis of the motions, asks the Government to commit itself to doing good, to doing seriously, to protecting our young people, the people in difficulty, the workers in search of a definitive location and, last, the central core of this country, which is the family. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u23	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, certainly the conclusion to which this debate leads (I refer back to the words of the previous speaker) will do justice to the hypocrisies that have been said on this subject, and will do so in a very simple way. We will then see, through the vote expressed, who is on the side of the gambling lobby and who on the side of the citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] The matter is very simple. No further data is needed, but I will still read some: 100 billion euros of turnover, 4% of national GDP, third national industry, 8 billion euros of taxes; 12% of household spending ends up in gambling; 400,000 slot machines; 6,181 local and authorized agencies; 15 million regular players; 3 million at pathological risk, 800,000 players already pathological; between 5 and 6 billion euros a year is the amount needed to treat pathological gaming employees. In this regard, I ask you, among other things, not to call it "ludopathy" anymore; let us call it by its name: "gambling" because it is not about gambling, but about a vice that ruins people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] These are the numbers of the lawful game, to which must be added the sphere of the unknown that lies in the submerged of the wrongdoing. And then, in view of this, we listened to the territory. This is nothing but the mayor's manifesto for the legality against gambling. Just a few weeks ago, in this House, it was approved in the decree to make a measure that allows the mayors, at their express request, to remain seated in the benches of Parliament: they wanted it, they demanded it. Today I would like to see the mayors express themselves in coherence with this manifesto, not in coherence with the interests of those who, on the other hand, are behind gambling and, almost always, are ill-advised, ill-doing, or whatever is disconnected from the interest of families. Here too we will see coherence or hypocrisy. But let's also say one thing. We moved ahead of time, because, listening to the territories, we tabled a motion, on May 29, calling for a moratorium on the Government, asking first of all to curb the spread of machines and slot machines, which alone produce about half of what the Government collects and then puts in its budget: 7 billion euros. Afterwards we saw other motions and we believed that there was a real intention to stop this degradation, which is not only moral, but is above all economic - I repeat - and that it is putting our families in serious difficulty. We have seen motions presented by all the Groups and we witnessed yesterday rituals that then lead, or should lead, to a synthesis of common sense. We have been proposed that our motion should be incorporated into a majority motion. We have included our proposals for a moratorium in it, but we immediately realized that something was not right. And here too I would ask for consistency from those senators who agreed to support a moratorium on new licenses: in resetting what already exists before granting new licenses; I would ask to maintain faith in what was said yesterday and then not to suffer the pressure of those who blackmail the Government to say that, without new licenses, the sanatoria that holds the IMU decree will not be paid. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] That is what needs to be said and what everyone must have in mind when voting. Otherwise the interests of the country end up hidden behind that hypocrisy that you want to expose. This provision for the Government is necessary; maintaining the proceeds of gambling is necessary to ensure the holding of the accounts of the State. And it is a very serious hypocrisy. The Italians must ask for new sacrifices, but not sacrifices that are masked by the profit made on the pockets of the less well-off, because we remember that what we are talking about is not gambling, which has existed since man existed. We are talking about a widespread spread in families, through play points that have spread like mushrooms in bars and in every public place in the country. This is an immoral situation that has come to be created in the country, not in 50 years, but in recent years. Faced with this, I also ask the senators who sit here and who voted for those laws that allow this rape of the territory to put an end to it and remedy it. It can still be done. But let us not hide the whole behind the hypocrisy of a word: it commits the Government to assess (perhaps) the opportunity to foresee a moratorium. We call for a moratorium. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] And we ask you to judge if this is not an appropriate assessment. We think so. And it is an assessment that is shared by those who, on the territory, (the third sector) then deal with those who are damaged by pathological gambling. That is why we are calling for a commitment. Of course, we will maintain our motion. We ask for the common sense of the senators and we ask the groups to be consistent with their mission as representatives of the people. Instead, we do not ask the senators to be subject to that blackmail that today causes the government not to accept the moratorium. We ask the Senate to show that politics can still have a meaning in the country and that it is not subject to the economic interests that, as in the case of gambling, that caused that huge hole and that huge failure to take, were then reconnected to the mafia and to everything that is the evil and the misconception that are behind you. On this we will see the true coherence of this Senate and of the senators who sit there, with the popular mandate received. We will see hypocrisy here, and we will be consistent with the mandate we have received from our people, because we are defending the interests of citizens, starting with the weakest families. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u26	Olivero (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda and the motions on which we are responsible today raise crucial issues in order to understand the value we attach to the function of the State. No one imagines an ethical state, imposing morals and models of life, but neither, on the contrary, can we accept that the State should become a biscuit, that the problem of defending the weakest should not arise, that it ignores its educational function. The incidence of gambling, with its many repercussions, has often been a matter of evaluation in this House. Only two years ago, in the 16th legislature, the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, through the 6th Committee, drew up a report which was unanimously adopted. This document, which was discussed in this House in October 2011, concluded: "Since now it appears, however, that the "game" sector is the meeting point of many, serious distortions of the socio-economic structure such as, in particular, the exposure of the incomes of Italians at risk of erosion; the interest of organized crime; the vocation of certain dealers who often operate under a quasi-monopoly regime; the germ of other criminal phenomena such as usury, extortion, money laundering; and, finally, the removal of large resources destined to the extortion. The most obvious paradox is that the State, by one verse, recovers financial resources through the widespread "indirect taxation" of income and, on the other hand, is itself systematically "deprecated" by the simultaneous existence of fraud mechanisms of play not recorded. The widespread spread in the territory of the most imaginative forms of indirect taxation, deriving from the so-called scratch cards, the lottery and its variants, from slot machines and bingo rooms, from the game via the Internet, from the videopoker, actually feed the disease of the game, precisely of the chance (I share this distinction, because it makes no sense to talk about "game" in this case), instead of curing it. And even more so today, two years later, it is understandable and has particular significance, in the face of an economic crisis that presents degenerative phenomena, that endangers the keeping of the incomes of the families, but above all their hope of these in the future and that encourages therefore, in the subjects that most live the crisis and feel the desperation of the moment, the desire to find an easy way out, that the State should never provide. Colleagues, we have a duty to ensure that our fellow citizens bet, but the bet must be for the good of people, for the future, for work, for the family, for self-entrepreneurship, for study and training. This is the bet that the State should encourage with what was once called "progress" advertising, with every form of indication, support and with every attention and favor. This is a bet that grows. Today, however, for mere cash requirements and with a cynicism often unacceptable, we are encouraging the bet on nothing, which produces impoverishment, frustration, cancellation of the future. The many tragedies that have lasted in recent years due to gambling, the often hidden anxiety (a phenomenon that in many cases does not appear on the news reports, if not when it reaches the level of tragedy, but that is present in the lives of families) that many live in the dream of a winning, wasting resources many times indispensable for a dignified life, they commit us to change. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Citizens' Choice will be voting on the proposed agenda today, but at the same time it strongly calls on the Government to take all those decisions strictly following the indications given by this House, I would say unanimously. In order to overcome this vision and to ensure certain resources for the State, the state's task of indicating the future to our fellow citizens is not diminished, sometimes until it disappears. For this reason, we call for a serious - and we are committed to doing so courageously - approach this issue and the consequences of it, namely the need to find alternative resources for what we consider to be an unjust gain on the part of the State. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u27	Colleagues, we greet in the gallery the mayor of Zagreb, Milan Bandc, who is following our work, to which we welcome here, to the Senate of the Italian Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u30	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us not revolve around things: the State is under moral process for inciting citizens to play the game in the illusion of cashing in on suffering and is called to a ready and full ransom. Vice-Minister Bubbico committed himself to this, in words, and Minister Zanonato himself showed willingness. We'll see. We have witnessed too many inertias and promised as a sailor, until today. Already the 2010 Stability Act for the year 2011 provided for the issuing of a decree to counter pathological gambling. On June 29, 2011, the Senate approved motion No. 441 which committed the Government to regulating advertising and introducing deterrent messages, electronic cards to protect the youngest and to assign quotas of the greater revenues to interventions of prevention and care of compulsive forms of play. Both the law and the motion remained a dead letter. On August 1, 2012, the TAR of Lazio intervened, accepting the appeal lodged by Codacons and ordered the adoption, within 60 days, of the above decree. So we came to the so-called Balduzzi decree, which finally established the entry into the essential levels of care of the cure and prevention of pathological gambling, forgetting however to establish the financial cover; therefore, again in this case, in the unified State-Regions Conference, there was no follow-up. It should be noted that that decree was titled " Urgent provisions to promote the development of the country through a higher level of health protection." It was implicitly admitted that this industry is harmful to the development of the country. So, the time is no longer postponed. This is not the time for half-measures, not least because politics must finally take a step forward and regain the credibility lost in the pit of conflicts of interest. I remember that between 2004 and 2006 the ten main operators of the slot machine market systematically escaped and evaded tax controls keeping the devices disconnected from the collection systems. Colonel Rapetto, of the Finance Guard, was able to discover and document the extent of the violations: 98 billion euros, 50 euros for every hour of non-connection. Let's talk about the entire government debt to private companies. To abolish the IMU on the first house would suffice four billion. I add that Giorgio Tino, relative of former minister Antonio Maccanico, and Antonio Tagliaferri, respectively general manager and director of the field games of the Autonomous Administration of State monopolies, for the serious omissions in the controls of their competence were sentenced to compensate about 16 and 8 million euros. Minister Tremonti wanted a commission, which resized the sanction by more than a hundred times, from 98 billion to 800 million. It was presided over by the state's general accountant, Andrea Monorchio, who was fatally also president of one of the fined companies. The Court of Auditors then decided to apply a different criterion, based on the alleged damage to the Erario and re-determined the penalty, bringing it to 2.5 billion. But it is like saying that, if I go with the red, I appeal to the alleged damage and, if I have not produced an accident, I ask that the fine be re-evaluated or even reset. The directors of the State Monopolies Tino and Tagliaferri were also reduced, citing the fact that all the companies had finally escaped. But it's like saying that if a vigilante distracts himself by controlling traffic, he gets sanctioned, but if he falls asleep completely, the penalty is reduced by 70 percent. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]] The concessions, let us remember, were not revoked, indeed the societies got new and more profitable. Giorgio Tino was not fired and in 2009 he even became vice president of Equitalia and president of Equitalia Veneto. Antonio Tagliaferri remained in his place and in 2012 he was also reconfirmed by the Monti Government. Colonel Rapetto, on the other hand, was forced to resign. We arrive at the birth of this government. On April 28, 2013, during the oath, a man financially and psychologically ruined by gambling shoots and strikes in front of Palazzo Chigi the brigadiere Giuseppe Giangrande and the pinned Francesco Negri, two servants of the State, that State that at the hands of the governments relayed center-right and center-left allowed to carry machine eats money until inside the sports clubs and parishes. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]] On May 22, I brought back to the Chamber the complaint of Matteo Iori on the relations between politics and the gambling industry, which generously financed UDC, Margherita, Left Democrats, MPA of Lombardo, prominent candidates such as Gianni Alemanno and Amedeo Laboccetta, foundations such as "VeDrò," referable to the President of the Letta Council, to six Ministers of his Government, to his deputy, Alfano, or politicians such as Matteo Renzi... [[Applause from the M5S Group]] .. who assumed or entrusted positions to former ministers such as Vincenzo Scotti and Augusto Fantozzi or to Mr Francesco Tolotti. Not to mention politicians who went into business in the sector, such as Marina Berlusconi, the sons of Clemente Mastella and Marcello Dell'Utri. I was calling for these legal but politically very heavy reports to be cut clean to remove the debate from these doubts. Instead, the Letta Government, on the eve of these acts of direction, instead of evading doubts, confirms that it is inside with hands and feet. It has in fact inserted freshly a condone in the IMU decree precisely for the companies of the fined slot machines, which further lowers the sanction. First €98 billion, then you go down to €2.5 billion, now €600 million. Few, damned and right away, they'd come out. Letta could, in some way, finance the satisfaction of "Mister B" and his claims on the IMU, while Corallo, after 14 months of fugitive activity, will be able to return to the Antilles with two hundred million euros. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] But that's not all, because these companies know they can get more. If this is the state of check of the government they will be able to renegotiate this residual sanction perhaps asking for the extension of the concessions in existence or new concessions or who knows what else. We want to be clear about this, so we have included an essential point in our motion, namely that this pardon should be removed when the decree arrives in this Chamber and that all actions should be taken to fully demand the payment of sanctions, as well as the immediate removal (a measure that must also apply to the future) of all leaders who have been guilty of failure to control, as in the cases we have witnessed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I now come to the explanation of vote on the motions and the documents of address submitted. We agree, in the objective pursued, with motion No 50, tabled by the League, and, although we consider it partial, we will vote for it with conviction. We will also vote in favour of the G1 agenda presented by the other groups, because it contains important aspects of which we must recognise its value, although we note that it is insufficient. We therefore also call on the other parties, and on each individual senator, to put a hand on the conscience and to evaluate our proposals point by point, for which we will ask for a split vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u33	Mr Mazzoni (PdL). Mr President, until ten years ago, betting in Italy was exclusively in the hands of organised crime. The slot machines were not online and the turnover, though remarkable, was still contained. Then the state began to deal with it, to regulate a growing sector, in which there was a legislative vacuum to be filled, with the aim of introducing new offers of public gambling. Only a few years ago the revenue of the games had already reached the figure of 61 billion euros (equivalent to almost 4% of the Gross Domestic Product). Today the phenomenon has grown, also thanks to the spread on the web of videolotteries and minicosinò. Since July 18, 20111, in fact, you can play poker from your home computer. It's a one-and-a-half billion euro deal a month. No strict control over the real age of the players, figures from dizziness moved with a simple click, and Italian money flying to other countries without the possibility of being intercepted by the tax authorities. Until a couple of years ago, those who wanted to play had at least to enter a receiver. This meant physically moving, respecting the opening hours of games and business, using cash. Control of compulsive behavior was certainly easier, just as it was easier to ascertain the age of the player. There is therefore an immediate need, if we do not want to make a moratorium, to regulate the new concessions in a much more rigid way; to control the web in a more incisive way and to make not one, but 100 steps back on some games that by now have nothing at all. It is true, however, that the state has somehow succeeded in curbing illegal gambling. In Italy, in fact, the regulation of the game clearly distinguishes the games not allowed from those allowed: for the first one is made absolute prohibition of offer by anyone; for the second one, the offer is subject to a special authorization. But even on this type of authorization a strong grip is required. Ludopathy, in fact, is now to all intents and purposes a social disease, and for this reason Regions and Municipalities have begun to issue their own regulations to curb the spread of gambling, creating in this way a considerable confusion as the State has a reserve established by the Constitution in the matter of regulation of public gambling. Gambling must therefore also be framed, and above all, with a view to a health problem, since it is a real social disease, so much so that in the past legislature Minister Balduzzi has forced the commercial exercises to issue notices on the disease of the game: an appropriate but completely insufficient measure. National and European laws on market liberalisation and licensing still contain obvious contradictions and gaps, leaving too much room for illegal gambling sites. There is therefore no need for more detailed regulatory action to make the system of authorisations, controls and sanctions more effective. Also because, in addition to the need to deal with a social scourge, which is being dealt with on the joint agenda that we are preparing to vote on, there is an even more disturbing reality, which is that of games run by the mafias, which has become a privileged channel for money laundering. The motion of the PdL, which then merged into the G1 unitary agenda, called for a very simple thing, that is to say, the implementation of Decree-Law No 158 of 2012, which instructs the Ministry of Economy and Finance to issue, within six months of the entry into force of the law of conversion, a decree for the progressive introduction of suitable technical solutions to warn players of the dangers of dependence on the game. This is also because the measure in question finally places a severe burden on the dissemination of advertising messages of games with cash winnings in television, radio and Internet broadcasts. Despite this, however, the situation has even deteriorated, with an authentic gambling boom. Appropriate means must therefore be put in place so that, as soon as possible, the provisions contained in the decree can be approved and implemented, in order to prevent the phenomenon of ludopathy from continuing to increase exponentially and to protect people most at risk, such as minors or the victims of the economic crisis, who seek a way out in the dangerous shortcut of gambling. Finally, we need to develop an ad hoc regulatory strategy for online gaming from the home computer, which is currently a virtually uncontrollable threat. For all these reasons, the PdL Group will vote in favour of the G1 unitary agenda presented by the majority groups. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u36	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Senators, I would like to thank all the colleagues who have returned to this House and who are participating in this important moment in Parliament's life. This is not the first time - someone recalled - that this is a very important and sensitive subject, but perhaps it is the first time that we have entered into the matter and that, through the debate and the vote on this agenda, we try to achieve results. Of course, it is in the hands of the Government and our Parliament that we practice what we support on the agenda in practice and in fact. We have worked in the last few hours and since yesterday we have worked to draw up an agenda that combines several reasons and that would lead to a synthesis between different proposals. We have succeeded and I also welcome the willingness of the 5 Star Movement, which remains strong in its proposal, to vote in any case on the G1 agenda on which we have worked so much. I thank Senator Lumia, who has worked with many of us in the drafting of the motion of the Democratic Party Group, and my colleagues Donatella Albano and Emilia De Biasi because, with their speeches, they have strengthened a line and direction of the Democratic Party, which also has behind it the drafting of legislative proposals on the subject that we hope can soon be discussed. Those who have argued that we are faced with a very serious problem, which must not be dealt with by a moralism of facade, but by parliamentarians, that is, those who, capable of law-making and directing the actions of the Government, try to reverse a course. We are no longer at the New Year's Lottery game or when, kids, we would accompany our parents or father to play the schedule. We are at a real social pathology, which takes on dramatic forms and often reduces people to lose their dignity completely, leading them to an overall breakdown that can become monomaniac disease and pathology and up to assume dramatic appearances and dimensions. Gambling has been, to date, somewhat reorganized and regulated, but it is not enough. There are important economic implications. I remember, for example, from my experience, that even from the game of the lot they had to come resources for the reconstruction of the Eagle. This means that the state sees in the games a significant source of revenue, so important that it thinks to then allocate these revenues, for the first time in the history of our country, to the financing of the reconstruction after earthquake. In fact - and I say this with bitterness - only crumbs have come from that financial channel: this figure I want to record in this House when we think about what other revenue and what other possibilities can come from the channel of the game. It is worth noting therefore the income, the economic implications, the pathology, the social implications and those linked to a dramatic crime that is advancing: it is known, in fact, that much of gambling is now the prerogative of the great families of the Camorra, the Mafia, the 'ndrangheta or the sacred united crown. We therefore need firmness and a gesture of responsibility: that is why we have shared a text which does not forget the importance of revenue, but which in some way marks a turning point and tries to focus attention on achieving some results. Important are the points included in the original motion of the Democratic Party and then on the agenda G1. As regards the reference to the Balduzzi law, it is not possible that a law of the State indicates the need for decrees of the President of the Council and of other Ministers and that then these decrees are not adopted, leaving suspended solutions and proposals already adopted. Let us therefore return to this, calling for the necessary decrees to be adopted in good time, including in order to update the essential levels of assistance for pathological gambling. We also focus on the issue of minors on the agenda. As an advisor to the social policies of my municipality of belonging I have dealt with many cases of minors who have completely lost their way behind the pathological game. So we cannot pretend not to see. This is why, on the agenda, we also point out tools related to raising awareness and promoting a different culture, also with regard to the use of money: and here the world of school and the Ministry of Education also comes into play. Then there are some points on which I want to focus, because they are important and innovative, and they cannot be considered as ordinary at all. There are, first of all, some indications to the Government to legislate on the prohibition of gambling advertising, on the need to raise the standards of accreditation of dealers and to strengthen the system of traceability of money, as well as on the need to introduce the prohibition of participation in competitions and procedures for the release of concessions in the matter of games by natural and legal persons condemned for serious crimes, also not definitively, because it is there that the links with the mafia, with the camorra and with the clans that unfortunately rage in most of our country. It is also a question of increasing the penalties for all crimes related to the game market and of strengthening the investigative levels of prosecutors and specialised police departments. There is also the question of the mayors, who need more powers with regard to authorisations and to consider, in the framework of a general organisation of their activities, which and how many authorisations should be issued in their municipalities. On the agenda we call for mechanisms to check the player's age for access to online games, which proliferate and which are tools that our kids use and use daily: there is often the loss of the road. I shall conclude my explanation of vote on two points. We consider important the reflections that have also been made in this House on the IMU decree and the provision of forgiveness. We believe that an important reflection should be made in the framework of the Stability Act on that choice, for the negative signal that might arise from it. In addition, in items 15 and 16 of the G1 agenda, we take into account the need to provide for the alignment of the VAT rate of games in the Stability Act. It is absurd and paradoxical that VAT on games is lower than VAT on bread and pasta. I conclude by stressing the need, as indicated in point 16, to provide for a moratorium on new authorisations, pending the reorganisation and planning of the whole system. These are all issues that we have shared with other parties, not only by a majority such as the PdL and Civic Choice; we believe them to be important and we ask the Government to share them and to move forward with this agenda. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u37	I would like to say that the authors have put forward a rewording of the G1 agenda, on which I would like to draw attention. I would ask Mr Giorgetti to give his opinion on this more complete formulation of the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u38	Mr President, on the G1 agenda (text 2) the Government is returning to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u39	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. Following the vote on motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the G1 agenda (text 2) will be put to the vote, also for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 50.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u42	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u45	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, we are asking for ten minutes' suspension to assess the issues raised by our colleagues on the subject. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What issues? MORRA (M5S). I am referring to whether or not we can agree on a joint motion or a rewording of our motion, which could meet the demands of the other parties.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u46	President Morra, we are in the process of voting. Between yesterday and today there was ample time, including that of explanations of vote, to verify the convergences. At this point we can no longer make suspensions, but I hope that you will still be able to mature your assessments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u49	D'ADDA (PD). Mr President, we are calling for a ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u50	No, Senator. As I have already reminded President Morra, we are already in the process of voting. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 50, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 50, 72, 126, 136 and 139 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 139.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u53	ENDRIZZI (M5S). We call for a split vote for each individual number and letter.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u54	I put to the vote the request for a split vote made by Senator Endrizzi. It's not approved. PUGLIA (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The response was obvious, however, given the delicacy of the matter, we can also proceed to the counter-test (it is also the first of September).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u57	FALANGA (PdL). Mr President, the counter-test is allowed when some doubt can arise from the raises of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u58	You're absolutely right, I said that. However, given the delicacy of a subject such as that of the game, I would like to avoid any presumptuous polemics. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on motion No 139.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u61	ENDRIZZI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u62	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Endrizzi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous electronic ballot on motion 139. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 50, 72, 126, 136 and 139 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u65	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, in view of the motion that was adopted earlier, it seems to me absolutely unnecessary to vote on an agenda which is a small piece compared to what we adopted earlier.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u66	It's two different things. I believe that this is an agenda that can be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u67	We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u68	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Scilipoti, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the agenda G1 (text 2), presented by Senators Lumia, Pagnoncelli, Romano, Cervellini, Scavone and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u71	VACCIANO (M5S). Mr President, these days the statements of the repentant of Camorra Carmine Schiavone have been made in newspapers and television. In fact, these are not new revelations, but confirmations of what they had to declare over the years in the process "Spartacus". (Brusio). TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, call to order! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. My colleagues are leaving the Chamber, but we know that the first to speak at the end of the sitting runs the risk of speaking in a loud voice. VACCIANO (M5S). I quote a part of the most recent interview, reported in yesterday's edition - September 4th - of the daily newspaper "Latina" today, about the spilling of toxic waste in the locality Borgo Montello, a few kilometers from my city, Latina: "Now I read in the newspapers that they did excavations in Latina to look for those garbage, but they dug somewhere else, not the one where we buried the bins, those are in the land of our companies, always close to landfills, but somewhere else. After telling the DDA and the Parliamentary Commission about the eco-aphics, I also made several helicopter surveys along with important investigators, and pointed to the exact places where we would cover the chemical waste. The magistrates wanted them to be dug and recovered, but the DIA didn't want those stems to come out. I also provided the documents on the origin of the waste, the names of the companies and even the plates of the trucks that carried them, but nothing happened. And they secreted all the minutes with my statements to the parliamentary committees. They want people to die silently. Perhaps it was understandable to keep quiet during the period strictly relevant to the investigations, but today, after more than fifteen years, I pretend to know how true these statements are. I would like to know what political, legal or social assessments the right to the health and safety of citizens can be made conditional on. And especially if what Schiavone said was true. I urge urgent action to avoid any further danger to the resident population and to identify and punish the perpetrators and those responsible. Otherwise, the responsibility for every disease, for every life compromised will fall on this State. In front of people's lives there is no secret that he keeps and for this reason also announces a question on the subject, in the sincere hope that it is not necessary to wait for the answer for my fellow citizens to know that truth which, simply, is their right. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u74	CAMPANELLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what gives us the measure of the effectiveness of our action? I believe that the best indicators are the prosperity of the country and the sense of affection of the citizens towards the institutions. For this to happen, we need courage and inventiveness, but above all, we need motivation, the feeling of citizens among the citizens and the understanding of their desires and fears. There are pieces of our country where prosperity is not even a memory, institutions are seen as enemies and law enforcement - despite them - as repression and not as protection. One of these places is Niscemi, because of MUOS. I have seen the American base that welcomes the Muos shipyard: it stands in the middle of a nature reserve, like a scar on a beautiful face. Similarly, in the middle of Sicily, I have seen the nets that cut out part of the territory with a series of signs that indicate who controls that land: the American Navy. In the last few days, I have received calls, messages and desperate requests for help. With the withdrawal of the permissions from the president of the Sicilian Region, the cranes in the MUOS yard have begun to operate again. The women of Niscemi and the mothers "No MUOS" weep. Colleagues, this is a bad signal. Those people - my people, our people - who asked for our intervention feel abandoned. At this point, we have a duty to do: to ask the American Navy and the United States to go and build the MUOS in another place, away from the inhabited centers because, hoping that it will never be used in war, we can at least be sure that it will not do damage in peacetime. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u76	You have the right to do so. I think he wants to speak on something he was hearing about, in the light of what we pointed out at yesterday's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u77	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, I would ask you to deal with a very sensitive issue, which concerns as a method the relationship between Parliament and the Government. I am referring once again to the case of the closure of the small courts. There is a risk that the relationship between Parliament and the Government will be put into crisis because we are getting news - we would like to be informed about this - that the Government is making decisions that at first sight, at least from the first information (I hope to be wrong), are in stark contradiction with the indications repeatedly sanctioned by votes expressed by Parliament. The indications we gave were objective, motivated, serious and consistent with the reform, able to avoid those errors that paradoxically risk in the final balance leading to the launch of a wrong reform. For this reason, in terms of the method, we cannot compromise. If Parliament, in the Senate Commission, approves almost unanimously a request for an extension and, in this House, adopts an agenda where it gives a clear indication to the Government, if the same happens in the Chamber of Deputies and if there are also formal statements by the Presidents of the parliamentary groups, both by majority and by opposition, I do not know what else to do at this point! In addition, there is a question of merit: one cannot raid without an interrogation. Mr President, as we asked yesterday, the Minister had to come here, either in the Commission or in this House, to explain what the government's guidelines and decisions are before taking action and announcing them, instead of raiding in these minutes and taking decisions which, moreover, from the first news coming, are in stark contrast to Parliament. On the merits, therefore, it is also a patatrac. Therefore, I strongly urge the Presidency to put its back straight and ensure that Parliament's prerogatives in the method and in the substance are finally respected. [[Applause from the groupsPD, PdL and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u80	CALIENDO (PdL). Mr President, I agree with what Senator Lumia said, but I must point out that there has been a delay in the Presidency's timing of the measure, which, as I pointed out yesterday, would have allowed a joint reflection with the Government. When we voted and passed the delegation law (I was at the time to the Government as Undersecretary), we thought of a respect and a continuous confrontation with Parliament. In the last few days and hours, we have news of a series of measures to extend detached sections; with regard to the Minister, he said that there was no opportunity to discuss them. There are, however, separate sections in the casertano or that of Eboli, which is the largest in Italy, with 11,000 pending appeals, which do not know what they will do. We do not know whether the choices are linked to indications of stronger powers in Parliament itself or personal friendships. If a court is kept open to carry out the activities of one of the sectors, whether civil or criminal, the expense is equal as the infrastructure remains. We do not understand why that structure cannot then be used as a general prevention for the criminal sector. The criminal system of this country has always benefited from the non-functioning civil sector, but also from the lack of certainty of punishment. It is then necessary for the Minister to come to Parliament to motivate and try to correct these distortions. I have made this request to the President of the Senate since July. Yesterday I wanted to receive an answer, but he told me that the Leaders must decide on the programme. But I have only asked whether the President has brought to the attention of the Conference of Leaders the issue of the timetable for the bill approved by the Justice Commission. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u83	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, we in the 5 Star Movement Group support the appeal and stigmatization of the government's political action which is not aligned with that of Parliament, as Senator Lumia has already said. Of course, on our part we can only stress the incredible situation that has arisen. The forces of the majority both in the Justice Commission and in the Senate House strongly reiterate the need for legislative decree no. 155 of 2012 to be revised and calibrated with objective criteria of improvement. Let us be a little open-mouthed to the fact that the parties that express this majority in the Ministry of Government they support seem to be not listening. It's a really surreal situation. We therefore agree with the request already made that the Minister be kindly but immediately, if possible, summoned to report to the Senate so that at last we can play cards uncovered to escape fears or suspicions about the measures that, as Senator Caliendo said, in these hours and these days are centling to ensure the salvation (even if temporary, apparently) of some detached sections of courts and to give this assembly a clear vision of what is happening in a seemingly underground way or that we parliamentarians are not able to understand. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u84	With regard to the timetable, I would like to remind Senator Caliendo that it is drawn up and approved by the Conference of Leaders and if unanimity is not reached, we are debating it in the Chamber. Therefore, the Presidency respects the wills that are determined. Certainly, however, his call is well founded. During your speeches, the Presidency has already represented to the Undersecretary of the Patrons Griffi Council Presidency and to the Undersecretary of Justice Ferri the upset of the Chamber (which is also of the Presidency, recalling the agenda approved in the Senate) with respect to decisions that should be taken not in accordance with the will of the Senate. Therefore - the representative of the Government is not present at this time because we are holding the speeches at the end of the sitting, but I say this because it remains in the minutes - the Presidency is associated with the expressions of numerous groups, of majority and opposition, and hopes that decisions will not be taken in the next few hours that are not in tune not only with the draft laws not yet approved or discussed, but with the agenda that was approved, I believe almost unanimously (however, with very few votes against), at the Senate of the Republic. The Presidency therefore invites the Government, which is informed in real time and which, in any case, can follow the proceedings of the sitting, to take account of the interventions that were carried out at the end of the sitting so that arbitrary decisions are not taken. Of course, then the rest is entrusted to the political dialectic.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-96.ana.u85	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 11.26 a.m.
