ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u4	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, we would like to clarify the Minutes of yesterday's sitting, with regard to a statement by my colleague Giuseppe Esposito, who, as Vice-President of the People's Group of Freedom and also of COPASIR, seems to me to be a very qualified person. Yesterday he referred to a possible information on existing international agreements and the involvement of COPASIR in Mrs Shalabayeva's case. Since we have no news of such confidential agreements or protocols, we would like to know whether it would be possible to share this information with the rest of our colleagues, so as to clarify these profiles as well, which have not least surprised us.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u5	We will report this to the COPASIR Presidency, which will make its own assessments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u8	EXPOSED Joseph (PdL). Mr President, I would like to answer both Mr Giarrusso and Mr Morra who spoke this morning. My speech was aimed at responding better to the information, saying that, even if there were confidential parts, they could be examined by COPASIR: I did not mean that we should go to COPASIR. I still don't know how things went because we didn't have any meetings to do that.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u9	The Minutes have taken note of those who have spoken; for further determinations, COPASIR is a parliamentary body and will decide what to do. Since no further comments have been made, the Minutes are hereby approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u12	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 813 and 343.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I turn out to be unpleasant, it is not my intention. I would like to turn over a famous incipit saying that everything, except courtesy, brings me against this bill. My dissent begins with the title, feeds on the text and becomes total on the very idea of touching the Constitution. Out of respect for my party, I will not vote against it, but, in accordance with Rule 67, I cannot vote in favour. On the other hand, there is already too much unanimity: commonplaces are spreading that seem true only because repeated with sycumera from the beginning, thirty years ago. The world has changed, but the agenda has always remained the same. The initial enthusiasm of the bicamerals has turned into a real obsession to modify the institutions, a single Italian disease, which finds no comparison in any other Western country. It is difficult to believe that our Constitutional Charter is so much worse than the others that it deserves this therapeutic outrage. Evil is more likely to depend on the unlikely constituents. We are called upon to declare that the revision of the Constitution is today a supreme national requirement. I wonder why, for what and in whose name. The question as to why it concerns the decision. Institutional engineering is used to force politicians to do what they do not succeed spontaneously, but this cadonism applied to the order has always failed: bipolarism had to eliminate corruption; federalism had to promote local development; the majority had to guarantee stability. To put it with Don Abbondio, who does not have the political will, cannot give it up with institutional artifacts. Yet this illusion is hard to die. He supported political strategies, he animated talk shows, he even created the new professional order of institutional engineers, made up of parliamentarians who are experts on the subject - which is, however, my personal esteem - lawyers, who have made it an academic career, and editorialists, who have made it a media fortune. The order of engineers poses only technical questions, but the highlight of the thirty-year period is the crisis of the parties. The political cause of ungovernability has been transferred to the institutions. If you do not decide, it is not my fault, but the state that does not work: this is the motto of the politician, at all levels. However, the diversion was not harmless: it served as an alibi for politics not to face its problems, which have become very serious. The institutions have been altered for partisan purposes, instead of being treated in their essence. The promise was to reform the state to improve the parties, but they both got worse; they had never come so low in the esteem of the citizens. It is time to do our part soberly, leaving the institutions alone. The only reform really necessary is to change our parties to make them fit for the country's government task. The question of what has been reduced to a mantra: the world changes and it has to be decided quickly. But in this House we know that the worst laws are the fastest: the "porcellum" was approved in a few weeks; the ad personam laws of great career; several decrees of Monti, approved with the sound of trumpets, are today dismantled by the Letta Government. Ideas-free decision-making has produced a flood of legislation that stifles the economy and everyday life of citizens. We take it with bureaucracy as if it were a cynical and cheating destiny, but instead it depends on the too many laws that we approve here. Luigi Einaudi was right to praise parliamentary slowness as an antidote to regulatory hypertrophy. It is not the speed but the quality that is lacking in the legislative process. The cause is in the overpower of governments that for many years propose only omnibus laws, with hundreds of disorganic, improvised paragraphs, often modified before being applied. This legislative plague destroys the administration of the State, creates disputes, imaginative interpretations and implementing paralysis. Parliament should be given full legislative sovereignty, but we, ladies and gentlemen, should make this self-form without delegation to the professional order of institutional engineers, we should implement it with the pride of parliamentarians: few laws a year, in the form of unitary codes, delegated functions to the government and increasing the powers of control. To establish that it is not legal without first assessing the results of previous laws. Giving parliamentary committees powers of inquiry: a Finmeccanica executive must fear an audition like an American manager when he goes to the Senate. To the third question (in whose name?) is answered: in the national interest. However, every time we have amended the Constitution we have had to regret it: Title V has created permanent conflicts between the State and the Regions; after the ius sanguinis of the vote abroad today we move to invoke the ius soli for the children of immigrants; first we block the balance of the budget and then we exult for the derogation granted by Europe. On the other hand, just read the text to notice the difference. The beautiful Italian language, with the simple and intense words of the constituent Fathers, is suddenly interrupted by a neurotic and technical vocabulary, marked by referrals in paragraphs, as a regulation of condominium. These are the parts added by us. Fortunately, citizens have avoided the worst problems by rejecting the constitutional law devised by the authors of the "porcellum." The only bulwark came from the guarantee presidents such as Scalfaro, Ciampi and Napolitano. I am puzzled by the lightness with which it is thought possible to demolish this last bastion. In Italy personalization has always presented itself as a pathology and not as a responsibility of leadership. Let us not joke with fire: presidentialism would not be an amendment, but another Constitution. We should have a sense of the limit. Our parties today barely represent half the electoral corps, the other half manifested in every way discomfort and mistrust. We are therefore unable, at this moment, to represent national unity. It is not wise to use the constitutional revision to sanctify a government without an electoral mandate. This is the vulnus that marks the amendment of Article 138 of the Constitution. The process links the lot of the government to the times and ways of constitutional revision. Putting a bond of majority as a beginning and as an end in the reform is an unprecedented political-constitutional force in Italy and Europe. Governments pass, Constitutions remain, let's not forget. We should note that our generation is not able to make these reforms, that it can do so today at the very least historical of the electoral consensus is a boldness without responsibility, it is a disproportionately opposed to the constitutional spirit. We leave it to the successive generations to re-elaborate the inheritance received from the constituent Fathers. Not all generations have the authority to change the Constitution. We should take note of this with humility, with the humility of which Pope Francis speaks, which should always accompany the exercise of power. Our humility is the best contribution we can make today to the Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-SEL groups and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u15	Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, the draft constitutional law that we are going to examine and on which we are called to decide has, as you know, been presented by the Government to the outcome of the composition of the crisis following the last parliamentary elections. I must not remind myself, except for myself, of the very unusual circumstances that led to the present situation: the difficult reading of the result that emerged from the ballot boxes, the not happy passage of the pre-office to form the Executive received by the then Secretary of the Democratic Party, the choice of the Quirinale to make the political climate decantating by investing two committees of experts in the task of carrying out a rigorous inventory of the needs of the country, in the context of the serious economic crisis that unfortunately still grabs us and in the face of the expectations of the markets, the international community and the institutions of the European Union. Nor has the same geopolitical context of the Mediterranean, to which we belong naturally, been lightened since those days, worrying today about the news coming from neighbouring Egypt. When, in joint sitting with the honourable Members, we have - and this has also been a unicum of republican history - re-elected President Napolitano as Head of State, whom we are called upon to succeed at the cost of overcoming his clearly manifested backwardness, we have all witnessed the severity of the message with which, in the Chamber of Montecitorio, he welcomed the renewed investiture. He has, with his authority, urged us - and we applauded him for this too - not to put further obstacles in the way of the necessary process of constitutional and electoral reforms, making the common good prevail and the vision, finally made concrete, of a renewed democracy on the small and mutual daily polemics. The President of the Council, Mr Letta, has punctually shared and supported the warnings, stressing for his part the urgency of the decisions to be taken. Political decisions, yes, but also and above all constitutional and institutional decisions, within which the former must be expressed and supported by a majority which no one, before the renewal of the Chambers, imagined would be such. I therefore personally feel the moral obligation, in supporting the constitutional bill that is before us today, to respond to a mandate that is binding on me, in the sense of urging my deepest cords as a Member of Parliament, but before that of a citizen and father, because it is to our fellow citizens, to those who voted on each of us, but also to others, and to our children, that we must show that we have a real awareness of the gravity of the moment we live. We, and before us, the Committee of the 40, which is called upon to exercise in the joint referent the task of instructing the proposals for constitutional revision on the form of government and the structure of bicameralism so far perfect, or the experts called upon to provide advice to the Government and the Minister for institutional reform, are not destined to exercise tomorrow a constituent power. The constitutional compromise of 1948, on which the Fathers of the Republic were able to converge, will not be touched in the admirable order of the values and principles of its first and still very lively part. I would like to remind some speakers, particularly Senator Giarrusso, who spoke this morning about the upheaval of the values of the Constitutional Charter. Senator Giarrusso, that's not true. In fact, it is not unknown that constitutional doctrine has always revealed a hiatus, a detachment, between the innovativeness and the capacity for implementation inscribed in those same principles (as referred to in Part I of the Constitution) and the timidity of the installation of Part II, written in times when mutual differences between opposing political forces and the climate of the Cold War were felt. We are therefore called not to upset the Constitutional Charter, but precisely to adapt its proper organizational part, so that those ideals of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity can be strengthened and lived even in our difficult epoch and in the future that imposes, in the presence of global competition, decisions that are democratic and as much as possible shared, but above all rapid. The Constitution is not weakened, in order to make a decisive technical observation here, but its rigidity is articulated differently, with exceptional procedures compared to the current one, referred to in Article 138 of the Constitution, acting on the timing of the revision procedure but without absolutely preventing spaces for amendments and rethinking and, less than ever, the exercise of any preliminary questions. The criteria for the membership of the Committee are also appreciated. As usual, the composition is not planned in proportion to the size of the parliamentary groups. It is expected that the votes obtained in the last round of the elections will also be taken into account by the individual groups. In this way the alteration of the political-parliamentary representation determined by the award of the majority prize provided for by the current electoral legislation (especially the Chamber) is mitigated in relation to the actual orientations expressed by the electoral body. Indeed, the bill, as far as possible, aligns itself with the most advanced acquisitions of constitutional reflection. This line also aligns the forecast of calling the sovereign people to seal, even beyond the limits provided for in the current Article 138, the desired result of the constitutional revision procedure, or possibly to reject it. Nor should we underestimate the broad and innovative telematic consultation which, since yesterday, will commit the participation of anyone who wishes to contribute to the issues of constitutional and electoral reform, consistent with the design of the joint effort of experts of the Committee and of the Assemblies that remain autonomous and free in their own determinations. If we are not called upon to draw the Constitution, even less is it given us the task of writing the best abstractly possible. However, we must allow that after at least thirty years of deadly discussions, of intense but inconclusive reformist debates (which also - alas - the academy gave its contribution), after the fact nothing in bicameral committees and committees, whose confrontation ended even in a dead end, finally take a path that, moreover, had already appeared mature and for wide stretches also widely shared in the last legislature, and this was reconfirmed with the approval by the Chambers, last 29 May 2013, of the motions on constitutional reforms. In this spirit, then, I declare the vote in favour in this House of the constitutional bill under discussion today, serene: serene in the face of my personal conscience and that of the nation, concept, that of the nation, which, as you all know, also includes those who lived before us and those who will live after us. I declare, therefore, my vote, with the sure conviction that, with regard to my personal contribution (appropriately updated in form, because the inheritances must not be sterile annuities, but must be invested and made fruitful), I will have helped to gather and enrich the hope of freedom, justice and democracy that the constituent Fathers gave, to last, to the country, in the act of redeeming it from the dictatorship and raising it from the immense destruction of war. This is a sad day for me, very sad, but I do not feel that I am exempt from the obligation of my parliamentary mandate, which has been conferred on me by my constituents on behalf of the Italian people. I repeat, however, that this is a day of sadness for me, because somehow I see democracy suffocated in my great and beloved country. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u18	GAMBARO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today, through this measure, we are starting to ignite the machinery of substantial reforms, constitutional reforms, those which for years have generated powerful shields from the castes and pre-constituted orders that have taken too far from this system of rules for our pockets, and which we can no longer afford both in political terms, that is, in real terms of democracy, in economic terms, of the state budget and public debt and, consequently, of widespread social welfare. This indispensable debate that the whole country has been calling for for for years has come to this Assembly to give life to the demands of a people in great identity as well as economic difficulties. On every side, every business and productive sector, every professional category in Italy, the whole essential axis of the economy of the Belpaese, with the only exceptions - we said - of some corporations now far from the needs and history of this national community, calls for a strong change in the structure of this set of norms that regulates Italian civil living. It is not necessary to be a legal person to understand that the way in which the constitutional legal innovation mechanism is being implemented appears to be by far anomalous and irritating. The importance of the subject we are discussing, the sensitivity and complexity of the topics dealt with by the draft law in question lead us to take a position of collaborative observation, so they push us to an open credit, not unconditional, but of a "term" type of trust, towards those who have assumed this type of legislative solution. It has certainly not been excited to know that there will be a bicameral committee of so many representatives, who will have to confront themselves on every quirky interpretation of the constitutional arrangement, often going into sterile doctrinal and academic elucubrations, but if this is the way that our President of the Republic sees to reach beyond the tunnel, well, we only have to be guardians of the lighthouse to the innovators of our Constitution. For this series of reasons, I believe that we must not wrap our heads if we want to proceed, by way of derogation from Article 138 of the Constitution, to take a path that facilitates the reform process, favouring a broad political convergence in Parliament and with the aim of making a substantial innovation that goes in the interests of the country and the citizens, for too long hostage of old cages of laws out of time. It is really appreciated the promptness and sense of respect that the Government has kept towards ordinary citizens after the Consulta has rejected the proposal to empty and rearrange the Provinces contained in the so-called decree save Italy. The adoption the day after of a constitutional bill that had the same object is an incisive response of this Executive and it is a clear example of how in Italy there are some legislative envelopes that can try to stop an improcrastinable process of necessary change of the State; but when there is a definite will to do something that all Italians expect, then there is no conservative body that holds, especially when not only the desire for change is so widespread in the common sense of the citizens, but also the cultural needs, the supranational framework and the socio-economic contingency require it. As a result, drawn up in the so-called "wide agreement" conjuncture, this provision represents one of the last opportunities that this majority has to legitimise itself in the eyes of the people. [[Applause from the Mixed, Mixed-SEL, PD, M5S and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u19	She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u20	Mr President, unlike the other major democracies in the West, which have long secured their constitutional institutions, our country has found itself, in a moment of profound economic and social crisis, without instruments appropriate to the scope of the decisions to be taken. Italy, therefore, pays the price of the delay in the modernisation of the institutional structure of the State and this is unsustainable in the situation in which we are in, not being able to afford to have inadequate institutions to take decisions, especially timely. This is the challenge facing us and the constitutional bill we are debating today must therefore move in this direction, in order to help identify the institutional structure that can best help the country to emerge from the political and decision-making crisis in which it finds itself, according to certain forms, times and modalities. We cannot continue to stop, to postpone, to follow particularisms and localisms, to postpone the problem to those who will come after us: it is too long that we do so and it is not fair. Let us not forget that our constituent Fathers have spent all (including extensions) the same time, that is, about eighteen months, to write and finally approve our Constitutional Charter. The current situation calls for strong decisions, which adequately respond to the deep need for reforms that our country demands. The basic idea that many of our fellow citizens have, especially the new generations, university students and young workers, is that Italy is now an old country, still, immobile in its structure, unable to move forward, to look to the future, to seize and offer opportunities. It is a country that takes away the breath of those who want to do, turns away trust and, too often, the same will to do to those who, like our young people, should instead be at the forefront in building our country. For this reason many of those who have and feel the strong desire to do find themselves having to go abroad, or give up, clashing with a political, social and economic condition and with a immobilism that breaks their desires and ambitions. Frustration and lamentation become the background of all our actions. Why have we become a country unable to reform itself? Why must we force those who want to build to look elsewhere instead of actively participating in the good of the country, for the good of all? This worrying immobility is, unfortunately, also the son of politics, of our immobility. If we do not hurry to respond to the needs of reforms that Italy desperately needs, we will have lost yet another opportunity to build and serve the good of our country and to give at least a principle of hope, a push, to those who ask these reforms for their future. What picture have we been able to give to our young people, who represent the future, during the last election of the President of the Republic? It is vital that we ask ourselves questions like this. How can we hope that everyone will participate actively in the progress of Italy, if we are then the first to be content, not to change, thus cutting off the good will of many who would like to be able, with their fundamental contribution, to change the country for the better? It is therefore essential that our proposals and our work are ready and in this direction the bill that we are debating and voting on today, which positively outlines certain deadlines and times for debate, vote and approval, since we cannot afford the luxury of being swept away. Therefore, respecting the deadlines set out in the proposal is a priority for our work to bear fruit and concrete answers. Therefore, having all this good in mind, the constitutional bill that we will go to vote will allow to create the bases and the fertile ground for those reforms that ensure the stability and governability of Italy in this moment of deep crisis, hoping that they are only the beginning of a profound renewal, not only institutional, but also economic, social and cultural of the Country, so that it is finally able to offer the necessary opportunities to those who want and dreams of doing, change and, therefore, to work hard for the future not only of its own but of the whole country. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u21	Senator De Monte is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what is before the House today is a bill concerning reforms not only constitutional but institutional. A whole series of reforms covering a wider range of institutions: from electoral law to the organization of bicameralism, from the balance and control between powers and organs of the State to the reform and renewal of parliamentary regulations. We are at the stage in which the path towards constitutional reform is outlined and thought necessarily runs to the words spoken by President Giorgio Napolitano in his speech to the Chambers on the occasion of his installation. The re-election of the President of the Republic finds no precedent in history, but it was necessary to overcome the difficult state of impasse created by the electoral result yes, but also by an attitude defined as irresponsible and closing by factions who did not intend to create the premises for the formation of a government. It is a very serious matter, its clear words and its call for the responsibility of all of us in this House. We cannot think of a renewal of the political class, of the parties, if it does not change - first of all - the approach to the serious difficulties facing the country. We cannot put before the pursuit of tactics, the search for conveniences, the implementation of instrumentalisms, the desire to seek, with common sense, the path that can lead us to governability, economic stability, a prospect of growth. Do we want a generational change? Parliament has been renewed in a substantial part of it: the average age has fallen, the presence of women is greater, but now we must also show that the change of pace is really wanted! An essential step is the electoral law. As is known in Law No 270 of 2005, the so-called "porcellum," has received deep criticism from several parties for the effects it has produced and continues to produce in the Italian political system. From the polls, on 24 and 25 February last, a clear result has not come out, a single majority that allows a political force to govern. This is because the 2005 electoral law has had different effects in the two branches of Parliament: a national-based award to the Chamber of Deputies and a regional-based award to the Senate have led to the paradox of producing two different majorities. The result - we have seen it - was the serious political and institutional stalemate that crossed the country before the formation of the current Government. A serious and dangerous immobilization that we absolutely should not and will no longer be able to afford in the situation of a serious economic crisis in which the country is in. The President of the Republic, also on this subject, called politics to responsibility by defining as "unforgivable" the fact that he did not reform the 2005 electoral law. We all hope that we will no longer have to receive such a serious appeal to take significant and swift steps to overcome the so-called "porcellum." That is why I believe that the issue of electoral reform should be a priority, not only for the Democratic Party, but also for other political forces. We need to ask ourselves what the vulnus, the weaknesses of the current law have been, what it would mean to make a minimal correction - as has been said in several quarters - and what would result in an emergency return to the Mattarellum, which many have called for. The Democratic Party has played its part in trying to overcome the 2005 law through the primary for the choice of candidates. Now we really have to choose, and we have to do this in Parliament without further delay. The electoral law must not be a taboo argument, as well as the perfect bicameralism. I have shared, Minister, your views in the 1st Commission on the economic effects of the constitutional reforms that we are looking for. In Italy where there is an urgent need for reforms, immediate responses to the financial crisis, recession and social malaise, we need first of all an analysis of the current system, which, while putting Parliament at the centre, must systematically resort to the decree of urgency in order to achieve the expected result quickly. I am fully aware that we are still at a stage ahead of these choices, but we must not be afraid, as of now, of starting a constructive dialogue between political forces on bicameralism, parliamentary regulations and electoral law. In recent months, the issue of constitutional reforms has been for everyone's attention, and for this reason, I believe that everyone should also focus on the idea of Senate reform as the Chamber of Self-Government. A Senate elected on a regional basis, as already Article 57 had been thought of by the constituent Fathers, to be rethought in the broader framework of the territorial authorities established by Article 114. A Government of the Republic and not of the State; a Government and a Parliament in concert, representing and giving voice to all the territorial realities of the Country. I therefore believe that the moment of reform ahead may be a good moment of renewal in tradition, not of revolution but of constitutional maintenance rather than of rewriting the Charter. Precise, targeted actions to ensure speed, effectiveness and efficiency of parliamentary action. Reforms must serve to improve the institutional structure, first and foremost to overcome the degenerative practices of recent years: from omnibus decree-laws to the continuous imposition of the question of trust by the Government (maybe on armored texts with maximaments), to the abuse of decree-laws even when the requirements of necessity and urgency do not exist. We must put an end to the infinite emergency season, which has triggered a real escape from Parliament, within a framework of crisis of legitimacy that the Italian institutions and parties are experiencing, a crisis that goes hand in hand with the economic crisis and a wider crisis of politics. The exceptional moment provoked an incredible reaction of the institutional system: the absolute novelty of the re-election of Giorgio Napolitano could not but be constitutionally and necessarily necessary to respond to a moment, precisely, of political crisis, which saw the affirmation of the "party of abstention" as the first party. This political crisis must not become a political crisis. We can no longer allow Parliament to be put to the fore at the moment of decision-making. This must be helped by constitutional reforms. Article 5 of the Constitution recognizes territorial autonomy - those "forces" live in the vision of Mortati - and promotes them: we must aim for this when we think of the reform of bicameralism. A final consideration must then be given to participatory instruments in the formation of political and administrative will. I fully agree with the need for greater attention to be paid to these instruments. Let us not think, however, even a moment, that the use of participatory forms lightens the weight of choices; those who, like me, believe in the value of parties, can only think of politics as a skill to find solutions and understandings, overcoming factions and incommunicability. I also consider it important to give greater importance to the Regions and Municipalities, giving for overcoming the Provinces as a constitutional bill whose text has already been drafted. I am thinking of the House of Autonomies, because a state that does not want to have a centralised vision must give greater value to local authorities, as institutions closer to the citizens. Often, and in an absolutely improper way, the municipalities are identified as the main centres of expenditure, the main recipients of the axe that must be cut down on public expenditure, forgetting that it is those municipalities and their administrators that suffer the greatest sacrifices, even if the needs to give answers to citizens have not remained unchanged, but have grown greatly. Well, then, if the intention is to give greater prominence to the autonomy, the main joints of our state, especially if the magnifying glass must be placed, first of all, on the central structures that I do not know have ever been touched, as if we can pursue an attempt of self-preservation no longer justifiable. Much has been said about the costs of politics and too little about the costs of bureaucracy, the costs of administration, the associated companies and all the realities that represent a strong component of public spending, but are never examined and, consequently, criticized. Mr President, Minister, today's first step is important, but the path ahead is not easy; it must therefore be tackled decisively and with the awareness that the citizens have asked us for a radical change, not just a discontinuity in the leadership of a government. The challenge with today has begun; we define the rules and times. I believe that there is no longer room for vetoes and alibis, because this path requires absolute seriousness. It is a commitment that we must make to the President of the Republic and above all to those who represent the President of the Republic, that is, the entire Italian people. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Campanella and Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u23	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u24	Mr President, the first consideration we have to make is because we are proceeding with a constitutional bill to carry out activities that are already governed by the existing provisions and are in full availability of Parliament, both in time and in ways. Once again, this path is practiced to make smoke, to confuse ideas, to hide the truth; and since one of the reasons for the political crisis is this way of acting, this vice, that is, to say one thing and think another, the result that we aim to achieve with this process will be exactly the opposite of what we will get. If we were to retrace the history of recent decades of constitutional reform operations, we would encounter many of them, and many of them were successful. Title V of the Constitution has been radically changed in the federalist sense, with the political support of large sectors of this Parliament and individuals, very authoritative representatives of the parties of the current majority. Part II of the Constitution has been touched. I have also recovered that reform, which is found in all the sites dealing with legal issues (modifications to Part II of the Constitution), which was rejected by the voters in the constitutional referendum of 25 and 26 June 2006. In other words, it seems that this Parliament has, over the last few years, mainly done exactly what it is still proposing to do. It is like an obstinacy to which one must answer. At the opening of every legislature we begin to do what? The reform of Part II of the Constitution. It is a task: there will be some teachers somewhere who will assign it to us punctually at the beginning of each legislature, with bad results from the point of view of the result, because we disorient everyone. In all the documents that have been discussed in these days, in the motions, also those presented by my political side, also in the other branch of Parliament, for example, we have moved from federalism pushed - I say this to my colleagues in the North League - to the supremacy of Parliament in terms of competing legislation. And yet it was you, the people in this Parliament, who said that we needed to get closer to the citizen; that the territories had to be involved and indeed protagonists in the process of forming the rules; that the citizens had to participate and choose more directly. And now we are talking about Parliament's supremacy, in competing legislation, over the Regional Councils. In fact, we even think about closing them. The Provinces must be cancelled. And who knows what's gonna happen to the municipalities? We set all tax matters according to federalism, and we did it yesterday, we didn't do it 30 or 40 years ago: we did it yesterday! And today everything that is combined is combined towards a new form of centralism, even authoritarian. It is necessary to decide; and to decide not well or badly: to decide becomes the imperative. Then, you can decide wrong: I want to say that this measure, beyond being more or less legally acceptable-constitutional, is truly politically unacceptable, because it is not an answer to the need of citizens, but an affront to that need. And it is an affront because citizens demand exactly the opposite of politics, the policy that is under trial. And beware that it is a popular process, which manifests itself in many forms, but which is a coherent popular process. Citizens criticize politics because it closes. They criticize politics because it does not favour participation. They criticize politics because it disappoints on the level of responses to the need of the community. They criticize politics because it is spending money and because it acquires privileges it consumes for its sole benefit. They criticize politics because it builds around itself a stronghold of defense, perhaps not even of personal privilege, but still of its function of power even when this power becomes a useless exercise. With regard to these criticisms, we are doing an operation to narrow down the scope of the decision; the proposal that is made, that is to say, achieves exactly this: it limits even more the scope of participation in the decision. Meanwhile, forty parliamentarians; meanwhile, those who have certain characteristics; meanwhile, with a possibility of intervention on the implementation of the final draft law, of the provision that will be voted on and that will also - like to say - be "veiled" for the referendum, if, all the newspapers of this country, very careful to distribute attention in a balanced way, support the collection of signatures (because it is necessary to collect 500,000), that is, support the process of activation of the referendum confirmation. And when the referendum is held, all citizens are given the same means of evaluation and criticism to express their views on the content of the bill. This is not just an increase in effort for this Parliament which should be committed to solving the real problems: how to make ends meet; how to help people in greater difficulty and more affected by the crisis to put together lunch with dinner. In other words, we need a Parliament that takes care every day and incessantly of the development of this country, to unblock this country, to remove it from the condition in which the management of the decline is being driven out. But no: we even establish that parliamentary activity is residual and that the greats are all there, day and night, and they can also be absent from the ordinary activity of Parliament, the most important, the most important, the one that responds to the everyday need of citizens. We made more bicameras. I don't mean what happened to a famous bicameral and how opinions changed in the course of his work. But can we, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, think that even if this work were done, it would be done by respecting at least Parliament, which originates this product - as it were - restricted to evaluating and drafting possible regulatory outlets for constitutional reform? Can we do this? And be careful, because our Constitution is a harmonious body of rules and the fundamental principles are not separated from Part II of the Constitution. And when we say, in Article 5, that self-government must be promoted and we also say that legislation and the state adapt to that path and to that development project of self-government, we cannot, in Part II, say the exact opposite. And in making this bill, presenting it, representing it outside, we are thinking exactly of doing the opposite of what is written in Article 5 of the Constitution. Mr President, I already know how the votes will end. But I am also very confident that the failures of these truly hysterical constitutional reform paths have always been excellent lifesavers of our Constitution. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, Mixed and Senators Candiani and Di Biagio Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u25	Senator Alberti Casellati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u26	Mr President, Senators, by submitting a text to this House, the Commission has taken the first step in that process of reform which is one of the objectives of the Government and with it the majority that supports it. And I do not hide that this first step has aroused sometimes conflicting feelings in me. Feelings that, despite their contrast, confirm the idea that I expressed in the Commission and that I repeat here: reforms to the institutional structure are necessary to the country. They are necessary for different reasons: cultural, social, political and economic. Therefore, we cannot afford to interrupt that path; it would be a failure, not only of the majority, but of all. This is the reason for my party's consensus on the proposal for a so-called extraordinary constitutional revision procedure. I am also pleased with the climate and the way in which the Commission has worked. The polemics, perhaps inescapable, that accompanied the enactment of the government measure have given way to a substantial will to find a sharing between different and legitimate readings of reality and expectations of change of reality itself. It seems to me that it was precisely this climate that allowed us to overcome, for example, some technical concerns that I had also put to the attention of my fellow Members during the debate: I am thinking of the changes that have taken place which have led to the clarification that the promptness of the measure cannot reward Parliament's function. This would run the risk of crossing the boundary between the constitutionally marked prerogatives of the legislative and executive bodies. Well, then, the correction made to the organisation of the work, which allows Parliament to assess the opportunity to have more reasonable time to complete its work. In the same way, I cannot but welcome the redefinition, or rather simplification, of the operating procedures assigned to the original Subcommittee acting as rapporteur in the work of the Assemblies of the two Chambers. In the original text, those arrangements were actually cumbersome and without prejudice to the question whether or not the expected collegial participation could affect the formation of majorities in the Assemblies and what the remedy might be. But the most important aspect I think can be seen in finding a solution to an issue for which we risked the impasse: what can be defined as the subject of the work of the Parliamentary Committee. The agreement reached led to the amendment to the rapporteur's Article 2, President Finocchiaro, which allowed the previous wording to be rationalised, healing some uncertainties, such as the meaning of the consistency that the original bill required for the reform of the various titles and their electoral systems. But here the positives give way to bitterness. I would leave out the remaining concerns about the relationship between the Parliamentary Committee, which is assigned the function of reference to the proposals for revision relating to Titles I, II, III and V, and the group of 35 experts that the Government intends to use, as written in the approved motion of address. I would rather focus on one important aspect of President Finocchiaro's amendment, produced, as I said earlier, of an understanding, but above all of a previous tension, linked to the possibility of introducing Title IV among those subject to the revision. This possible introduction was seen as a tear, adjectived moreover as unacceptable by people who even became champions of justice so much as to say that it, as it was read in the newspapers of a few days ago, cannot be the ground on which to download events unrelated to the objectives of reform and modernization of the institutional structure. We are not faced with a political tear or even a more martial blitz. I think there's been a misunderstanding about that. Pulling into the discussion also of Title IV, the one on the judiciary, has a purely technical meaning. I wonder: how do you want to reform Parliament, President of the Republic, Government and Regions, Provinces and Municipalities, and to skip Title IV equally? It is certainly superfluous to recall, for example, that the President of the Republic is also President of the MSC. In the same way, it seems clear to me that if Parliament decides for any presidential system it will also be necessary to examine and assess the implications of the relationship between a body and a state order. And if the Senate were to become a Chamber of Regions, could it boast the right to appoint members of the Constitutional Court? Wouldn't there be a need to check the possible appointment procedure here too? My bitterness lies in the fact that behind those statements, the alleged raid, there are profound and lasting prejudices, which are manifested every time you touch the question of justice, which is deliberately maintained connected to Silvio Berlusconi. But what would be the link between the amendment indicted and Berlusconi? It is, however, a prejudice that prevents a crucial aspect of the present and, above all, future life of the country from being adequately addressed and in all its scope. We can only face it with a hypocritical and in some ways reckless attitude! It seems superfluous to me to recall how the urgency of a reform of a central area of institutional life clearly emerges from the country. Everyone - and no longer just anyone - continues to say that justice has now become a social and economic emergency. Suffice it to mention a few facts: prison overcrowding is the subject of measures of necessity and urgency; the president of the ENI recalled, a few days ago, that we are in 45th place in the world for attraction and that multinational companies to invest call for effective action on justice, an urgency that the World Bank reminds us once again in the Doing Business 2013. But all this, unfortunately, becomes secondary to Berlusconi's obsession. The invitation to this House is, therefore, twofold. First of all, it is a question of abandoning prejudices, because only in this way will it be possible to avoid the risk of being impaled in polemics on neighboring topics, such as the fate of the "porcellum" and possible electoral alternatives. Secondly, we must deal with a secular task which we cannot further procrastinate. Otherwise, as I said at the beginning, we will all lose. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u27	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u28	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I listened very carefully this morning, with great respect and with some appreciation to Mr Finocchiaro's report. In particular, I appreciated the ability and elegance with which, at the starting tapes, playing on the adjectives "constituted" and "constituent" has managed to limit in an honest and dignified way the start of this reform path, to which my Group will not deny support and trust. It seems to us, however, that, compared to those arguments concerning the many failures of the last thirty years, from the Bozzi Commission to today, in Mr Finocchiaro's report it has not adequately focused when instead reforms of the Constitution improvised, sudden and fatious have been successful, and how badly they have brought to our order. I am referring - and I am proceeding for flashback - to the 2001 reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, which has frankly made our regional system ridiculous and embarrassing in Europe. But how can we talk about that reform, without looking at the ordinary legislation that had preceded it with such superficiality and with so much cynicism? I'm talking about the so-called Bassanini laws: we were in the second half of the nineties, the state was picked up, and we were bragging about making reforms to the Constitution unchanged. A far-sighted, fatious and messy right, the Feltri and Montanelli blessed the Bassanini laws with the same cynicism with which Rizzo and Stella became cathedrals of almost daily constitutionalism a few years ago. That reform was born from the faction of the colleagues on the left who, in retaliation against the colleagues of the League who were about to choose the alliance with the center-right, gave them that kind of federalism. This constitutional framework is an emergency in which we cart ourselves day by day. It is not only Senator Gasparri who disputes with the current Minister for Economic Affairs: the controversy between Parliament and the Minister for Economic Affairs dates back precisely to the quaint obnoxiousness of the Bassanini laws. But do you realize that Palazzo Chigi is a bicycle and that the Ministry of Economy is more than a tank? And do you realize that the constitutional institution of the Government in Parliament, regardless of personal matters (Saccomani, Tremonti, Padoa-Schioppa), revolves around this node, that that regional institution that we had launched in 1970 we had launched with a lot of improvisation, so much so that when we launched the Regions we defined them as bodies of legislation and planning, but never management? What was 1970? Cynic and fascist localism in the worst sense. I was a soldier, I had to keep public order in Reggio Calabria, where Ciccio Franco, Adriano Sofri and Amedeo Matacena alternated: what a beautiful beginning! In Abruzzo it was even worse: Pescara against L'Aquila and L'Aquila against Pescara. In Campania it was decided to abstain for a full legislature. The struggle between coastal areas and inland areas, De Mita against Gava, was not even arbitrary by the usual junta Leo (Carlo Leone), which was done. And regional legislation just didn't start. Then, in the mid-seventies, there was the decree of the President of the Republic No. 616 of 1977. Today the regionalism that we celebrate what is? The Regions as a window, the Regions as a municipality in large, the Regions as a management. Minister, I know the dramatic deadline for the Provinces, but we are intellectually honest: the repeal of the Provinces made sense at that time, when Sofri and Ciccio Franco went down in the square and the Colombo Government promised the fifth steel site to Gioia Tauro. That's a good thought. Today the race to the Provinces was as it had been before, you want the institution Province because you want the State, you want the provider to the studies, you want the provider to the public works, everything that Bassanini laws have repealed. The state's gone. As skillful as a colleague as Senator Finocchiaro in the constituent-constituted vocabulary, the vocabulary of the present Constitution has wiped out the State: the State follows the Regions and other autonomous communities, and even the mountain communities. The unitary reference of the Republic is no longer the State: that is, the reference of modernity with which the National State was born in 1860 was picked up and killed. As for the state in the periphery, only the superintendents of cultural heritage have remained, emptied of powers and money in relation to the Regions, because the contingency meant that the Minister of the sector, Mr Veltroni, was Vice-President of the Council, and he wanted to rip this cockard from his colleague, Reformer Bassanini. So how can we, senators or Members of this House, hope that a glorious branch of our Parliament will become a sort of State-Regions Conference? But have you ever been to the State-Regions Conference? A dialect company, in the most benevolent sense. But have you ever been to Germany, to say that they have the Länder and we have the Regions? Until a few years ago they were laughing, today they say: don't offend us. And the history of our failures in Europe, of Italy in Europe and of Europe in Italy, owes almost everything or at least everything to our fragmented regionalism. Let us come to the present, to the emergency: cutting public spending with this constitutional system has become impossible. The last time we did this was in the early 1990s. Amato was in the government, naively classified as the President of the Council who put his hands in the pockets of the Italians, which he did; but it must also be said that he cut public spending by 90,000 billion lire and to do so he anticipated and bypassed the financial. He made four delegations: one entrusted to my colleague Sacconi, who was then in the government, the one on public employment; one on pensions, another on health and the last on territorial finance. Today all this is forbidden by the Constitution. Our evocation of cuts in public spending is entrusted to nothing. And then, Minister, we are very careful. We were together on the same benches, and our group president was Senator Gasparri, when the theme of the Provinces was introduced by the Monti Government in a disorderly and fatious way, almost to want to silence on what was the cancerous patient, and with metastases: regional finance. Let us be careful. We will deal with this in the next few weeks. Personally, I am critical of the qualunquism induced by Rizzo and Stella, but I read Rizzo and Stella, and it has hurt me as an Italian citizen to read that, for ten years, the only way to bypass the blocking of recruitment is that of the companies involved, that is controlled by the local authorities. The beauty, in fact, is that there is a regionalism that for the first ten years did not want to be a local authority; Today, however, the regions claim even more localism of the local authorities: multiplication of competences, overlapping of functions, unavoidable waste, assume without competition or run into the ban of turnover. Only in 2008, i.e. five years ago, the Court of Auditors, which can do nothing to us in this baobab of the companies involved, estimated that this unformed mass of public enterprises (the word companies did not put it in quotes: perhaps it was not their fault) occupied 255,000 people, as well as 38,000 board members, auditors and senior executives. And then we want to make people believe that the subject of constitutional reforms must be the number of parliamentarians! This is some kind of cynicism. The other constitutional reform that unfortunately has been successful in the history of our unfortunate country was what my colleague Alberti Casellati would call justice. I do not call it that, because even when it concerns jurisdiction, what is constitutional is only one theme: freedom and the guarantees of freedom. In 1993 a fascist square, in the deterior sense, imposed on the free Italian Parliament an amendment to Article 68 of the Constitution, which still cries out shame. The Senate voted on its own text; a colleague of whom I had great esteem: my colleague, Mr Maccanico, proposed it. This text could never be examined in the Chamber of Deputies, buried under the squadrists who threw coins against Craxi, even then after a free vote of the Chamber of Deputies, questionable as much as you want, but certainly not because of the conditions of freedom in which it was expressed. What is the challenge of justice against politics if not the elimination of those guarantees of Article 68? Moreover - some friends of the Commission will remember it - when ten years before the code of criminal procedure had changed (it had been a great moment of Pisapia father), it was said: yes, this is fine, but if it does not arrive immediately in the Constitution and in the order the division of careers, the division of profiles between those who accuse and those who judge, it will be a foosball that does tilt. And so it happened. And so it happened also during the attempt that seemed to go well (there was a Bicameral presided over by D'Alema) at Letta's house (here Giuliano Ferrara would say: understood as "the Count" and not as the President of the Council): an agreement was made on the electoral matter, foreign or at least lateral to the Constitution. It was called the "cake cake." In the following days it was noticed that, as solid as the pie pact was, there was an Italian citizen to whom the Milanese risotto was offered as a dish, and only that. There was a President of the Republic who dishonored his function by attacking Parliament. When the Bicameral was to bring its work to the attention of the Chamber, he sent a telegram to a congress of magistrates saying that he would never promulgate a law that had distinguished profiles within the judiciary. Why was that message reckless? Because in that Parliament there was as much as 50% of the bill in this respect. And since I respect the President of the Republic, whoever he is, the President of the Republic may have erred, but he exercised his right of duty. What was really chilling and deafening was the silence of the President of the House and the President of the Senate. You see, ladies and gentlemen, among constitutional values there is certainly what has been repeated several times for ten years as a blah blah blah: independence and autonomy of the judiciary. Despite what one might think, I respect that value too, but I also respect independence and autonomy from the judiciary. That reckless reform of Article 68 of the Constitution has deprived us of the resources of independence and autonomy from the judiciary that make the history of parliaments. And then I would have liked - and I would like to conclude with this - that Mr Finocchiaro, when with so much intelligence this morning defended the centrality of Parliament from populistic aggressions, from academic intimations of the councils of faculty, had also had in his implicit spirit the value of independence and autonomy from the judiciary that is in the history of these institutions and in the history of Italy. Colleagues of the Left, have you ever wondered why in '48, '53, '58 and '63 the anti-Communist majority voted without hesitation the refusal to allow Mr Moranino to proceed with the vote? Saragat solved the problem in 1964 with grace. We did not do this because our anti-communism was willing to come to terms, but in the name of an ancient value that is always modern, the one with which I like to conclude today, reminding myself and all of you that the day before yesterday there was good news in the newspapers: the former German colleague was acquitted. Therefore, the idea of a popular policy, first evoked by a colleague, is a disgusting idea for any kind of constitution. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u29	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u30	Mr President, for the umpteenth time in twenty years in the Second Republic there is a debate on institutional reforms to be consecrated in specific and explicit constitutional reforms. This time the discussion should benefit from the government's numbers of broad understandings (in Parliament, but not in the country). In the debates that preceded the draft Constitutional Law in recent weeks, all the colleagues of the majority have widely argued that no constitutional reform is taking place outside the principles of the Charter of 1948 and that, above all, this reform will never have to draw a new form of State, as President Finocchiario has reiterated this morning, neither a presidential system nor a semi-presideential one on the French model. Solemn tones have been raised in this House and in the country by authoritative representatives of the majority in defence of our republican and parliamentary system. And that is why we have all been self-aware of the first test, because, as we have argued in our preliminary ruling on constitutionality, we are faced with a clear violation of Article 71, Article 72 and Article 138 of the Constitution. Article 138 not even respected in the middle of the reflection pause provided for in Article 4 of this draft law, in clear contrast to the 1948 Charter, which provides that the pause may not be less than three months. This choice was made to allow possible constitutional reforms to be properly discussed in the public in an open confrontation with the parliamentary debate. In the last twenty years we have already witnessed two constitutional reforms, which have always been adopted by majority, for the clear choice not to seek the broadest politically transversal consensus in Parliament. The one, although endorsed by a referendum, is today criticized even by some of those who supported it and supported it at that time, voted in that case by the center-left only. The last, made by the centre-right, was rejected by a popular referendum that said no to a more than obvious presidential sign. In these years, we have seen three times change the electoral law: from the proportional system that has accompanied us from the beginning of our Republic to a system with majority colleges and a proportional part, replaced by the "porcellum" which, in the worst traditions of the dictatorship of the majority, is a model that had as its objective the electoral instability to the Senate, with a mechanism that today is placed under observation also for dubious constitutionality. In the bill it is written that election laws will be examined by the Committee only if they result from the revision of the Constitution. Nothing forbids the Contact Committees to work on a new electoral law, necessary to return that right of choice and participation to citizens totally denied by the "porcellum." It is a pity that the majority has made another choice, as confirmed by the words of the President of the Republic and the Minister for Reform, who take steps back from that separate and autonomous path between the electoral law and constitutional revision, which the Commission has also tried to safeguard as President Finocchiario has always supported this morning. For us, we have said this several times, the issue should be the full implementation of the Constitution and the effective operation of all rights. Faced with these attempts to change our constitutional and electoral architecture, we have seen various parliamentary majorities, sometimes even extended, that have not always managed to make the choices of government effective. Since 1983, with the first Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Reforms, it has been trying to change this architecture, with sometimes damaging or counterproductive results, as many speakers have pointed out. If we look well, the only reform that has had a certain degree of efficiency is that of the electoral and institutional system of the Municipalities, which gives guarantee of governability while maintaining a certain degree of pluralism, despite all the criticalities for the high risk of emptying the role of the elected assemblies and strong powers concentrated in the figure of the mayor. It is a law that you amended in the last legislature only to reduce the spaces of representation and democracy. In this debate the subject of governability has been mentioned several times, which has become in a sense a totem and an alibi at the same time. We have been elected to Parliament, without binding mandate, to represent the Italian people. However, the number of voters is increasingly falling at each election; this means that the people are becoming less and less aware of themselves in their elected bodies. Of course, cases of corruption, contiguity with organised crime, ill-doing, incorrect management of public funding to parties have not helped. Citizens want to be represented by people whose projects, expectations, ideals and legitimate interests they share. Instead, to see large coalitions of real-estate government, which delegate politics to technicians, whether they come from Europe or from similar-university foundations linked to parties or political exponents, turns away the desire for participation. In the name of governance, it is thought that a constitutional reform is needed, but this will not make the strong contradictions present in some political forces disappear, as we had the opportunity to see during the election of the President of the Republic. Your reform will not be enough to bring people closer to politics. Governance has become a totem because large numbers are not always enough to govern, as we have seen in the past legislature where the incredible majority that supported the center-right government was not enough. Governance is also an alibi because, if numbers are not enough to govern, it is used as an excuse to cancel the representation of political society from Parliament. Changing the Constitution with the imposition of the majority, trying clumsily to explain to the citizens the ineluctability of choice in the name of that totem and that alibi, entrust to the wise the guide of this important process of change: it will be all useless if politics does not return, if the sharing of ideals and values does not return. No essay, no reform, no electoral law will make up for the lack of politics, the lack of ideas and free confrontation. We are not today in the immediate post-war period, after fascism, we are not at the dawn of Italian democracy. However, the Constitution was decided by the elected constituents in a proportional manner and with the involvement of almost all democratic political forces. There was a country to rebuild and they took two years. Here we must leave behind the scandals, the bad politics of the clever and we want to make a Copernican revolution in three months. Maybe we're crossing every line. Addressing the problems with consistency will enable us to overcome this phase of cultural and moral crisis in politics, recovering not only the dignity of the institutions, through transparency and ethics, but also the strength of political action. This majority of broad understanding is truly unique: it has difficulty finding unity of intent on the IMU or on the increase of VAT - and we understand the reasons for it, because it should be two different ideas of development - but it finds a strange cohesion on an act that seriously calls into question the essence of the Democratic Republic. In this process of reform for us there is only the ugly attempt to erase politics, the real one, and the participation of all citizens in a clumsy attempt at self-preservation. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Albano, De Pin and Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u31	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u32	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, almost twenty years have passed since the beginning of the need to renew and reform the country system through the necessary constitutional changes: a widely shared need, which found its inspiration from below, from the expectations and expectations felt by citizens, from civil society. 18.09 (Follows Bisinella). The society had begun to become aware that the new world and European framework presupposed structural changes capable of redesigning the organization of the state in a more dynamic and functional way. However, this need for change has, in fact, encountered insurmountable obstacles and has had to clash with the Orthodox, short-sighted and ideological positions of the "ultras" of the theory of the inangibility of the Constitution. Let us remember all the paladins of this pre-constituted pseudovision that elevated the Constitution to a verb incarnate manifest their dissent against any will for change. The evocative motivations that came and are put forward by suffrage of the sacredness of the Constitutional Charter are based, rightly, on respect for the commendable work that was carried out by the constituent Fathers in the post-war period as a synthesis of the thought of the different souls who had helped to get our country out of the fascist dictatorship. Far from me do not understand and stress the historical importance (and not only) that embodies the fundamental Charter, especially in its first articles that enunciate the fundamental principles on which our democracy is founded in its declinations of respect for equality between citizens, rights and personal freedoms inviolable. The ideological, conservative and rear-guard positions, however, have produced over the years a frightening immobility that has slowly infected all the structures of the state system. This latent, widespread, soporific inertia has weakened our country, putting it at the risk of an irreversible disease. The hypocrisy - and it must be emphasized - of certain conservative and anachronistic attitudes has not allowed in all these years to achieve a substantial modification of the organizational structure of this State, really capable of going to affect in a prevailing way in the system, redesigning it from its foundations and making it finally able in its new structure to face the changes of society in such a way as to present it, as a protagonist, in the new international and European context. In the history of a state, if one is not able with foresight to adopt the necessary reforms in the right times through a long-term planning, moreover enucleated by those same constituent Fathers in a framework of federalism with variable geometry sanctioned in the precepts (unheard) of the Constitutional Charter, dramatic events intervene, triggering factors that upset the structure and that, if not governed, can irremediably cause upheavals such that because of their scope they risk not being painless. The international economic situation that has hit the world and which has had serious repercussions also in our country has brought out all the evils of a system that is still suffering from an elephant bureaucracy, unable to make the administrators, increasingly distant from the real needs of the citizens, an unproductive and charitable system inadequate to the valorization of the territories, organized without any respect for the principles of horizontal and vertical subsidiarity, fagocited by a self-referential policy forgets its primary task of researching the common good, but based exclusively on electoral consensus. What was to be done and not done in all these years is now improcrastinable. It is not the Government, it is not we MEPs who are leading this stage of reform, ladies and gentlemen: it is the people who want them, who have strongly asked them for them as the last call to politics. Either politics will be able to change and renew itself or we will not be given a second chance. I am sorry, however, to note that among the benches of the political forces that support the Government there is the void, there are many absences [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] While oppositions, minority forces are present, ready to debate and discuss. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia.]] Those instrumental and cat-pearers of the last 20 years will no longer be tolerated. We want to remember that the North League, as a political force, had prepared these reforms when it was in the government. The reform of Title V of 2001, on the other hand, was approved quickly and with a numerical force, exclusively to mitigate the bursting energy of the North League, which increasingly rooted itself as an impact force to bring out the northern issue completely underestimated. The art-orchestrated palace games to slow down those reforms that went directly to affect the interests of the state apparatuses and palace today are no longer acceptable. What about the ideological campaigns that have been supported by some political forces to stop those reforms, such as the so-called devolution, which, after years, had worked hard to get approved in 2005, and which never came into force because rejected by popular referendum? Ladies and gentlemen, this was a reform that anticipated the issues and debates of these years and of recent times, in all the fora proclaimed by all; a reform that already provided for the establishment of the Federal Senate, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, of which everyone discusses, changes to the process of formation of the laws and the system of government, providing greater powers to the Prime Minister and also interventions on the judicial order. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] However, to show that speaking of federalism is different from really wanting federalism and acting with conviction and determination to change the country system, this bill of reform - I am referring to devolution - was rejected, as already said, with the confirmation referendum of June 2006. The campaign to vote no was maneuvered in art by those same political forces that, in words, declared themselves - and are declared today - in favour of federalism, that is, in favour of the modernization and efficiency of the country and finally of the responsibility for the use of public resources everywhere. The country's only chance of ransom now! Let me start with the conclusions, let me repeat that my own - ours - is the hope of seeing the reform process really started today, no longer procrastinable; of seeing, finally and concretely, the reform process concluded in this legislature. It is a hope that derives only from the way in which this Government was formed, imposed by a President of the Republic who, though tired, was forced to accept his second mandate, driven by a sense of responsibility and understanding the extraordinary historical period we are going through. A President who, at the time of his inauguration, warned all Members - even those absent from these benches today - about the need to arrive quickly at a radical change in the state system, to restore dignity to the institutions and to attenuate the widespread and understandable feeling of disaffection of citizens towards politics and institutions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The same President of the Council of Ministers, in the programmatic declarations made to Parliament in relation to constitutional reforms, on which he has gained confidence, has repeatedly stressed the need to do everything possible - and also the impossible - to close the reform process of Part Two of the Constitution and the consequent electoral reform, with completion and implementation of the path of fiscal federalism. Otherwise - it is the same President of the Council who has repeated it several times - the consequent determinations will be assumed: all at home! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] All this said, we hope that in this parliamentary term we can really succeed in approving the reforms, not only thanks to these extraordinary factors, but because it is the citizens, families, entrepreneurs, in short the people who want them and ask them and who will do everything to get them. We in the Northern League Group are here, because constitutional reforms are in our DNA. We are there because, thanks to us, in this country the need for an essential change has matured: a profound evolution and system. We have and have shown that we want and know how to make our effective contribution, including in the examination of this draft constitutional law, with the improvements we have tabled and various agendas, which we will present, of common sense and responsibility. We are for a real change, towards the modernisation of public administration, to adapt it to the needs of society, to simplify compliance and to adapt our legislation to that more advanced Europe to which so much is referred. We are, above all, to enhance the autonomy and territorial specificities, for the realization of macro-regions, which are now finally supported also in Europe, to respond to the needs of the business world and citizens, to make the country competitive. There are no alibi anymore: overcoming a centralist vision of architecture and state administration is the only hope of the country's recovery. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u33	Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u34	Mr. President, I'm looking for PD desperately. I'm probably doing flight simulations on the F35s, because we have half a deserted chamber. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] MARINO Luigi (SCPI). Bravo! CRIMI (M5S). Having said that, I have heard very strange words utter today. I have heard that people, citizens and businesses are calling for these institutional reforms. Honestly, it does not seem to us that they are longing for reform of the institutional structure, neither presidentialism nor bicameralism. On the contrary, I would like to remind you that on 16 November 2005 a new form of institutional structure was adopted, which provided for the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, and that rule was rejected by a referendum: rejected! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I would like this term to be constantly in our minds: citizens have rejected a reform of the institutional structure in the direction of overcoming the perfect bicameralism. This is a fact, but we stubbornly continue, as Mr Uras also said, and we persevere in trying again to go in a different direction than the citizens ask: we have done it with nuclear power, we have done it with electoral refunds. Every time citizens express themselves, this political class continues to persevere in a different way to protect itself, to self-esteem. We are looking for a scapegoat; today we are looking for a scapegoat to justify the inadequacy of those who in the last twenty years (but perhaps thirty, forty, fifty) ruled this country. The scapegoat is the instrument: since the instrument is not valid, then we could not do it. In fact, you have not succeeded, because we are completely excluded, since we have arrived now; we are getting out of what has been done in recent years. Therefore, due to the inadequacy of this political class today we are looking for an excuse, and it is found in the instrument: sin, the instrument does not allow us to make laws; the legislative mechanism is too far-fetched. Yet the measure before us today is proof of contradiction, because this constitutional bill has arrived in the Chamber in less than 15 days to be approved. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Less than 15 days and it is already in the Chamber, while 350,000 signatures under a bill of popular initiative have been closed in the Senate drawers for seven years, piling them up from the Commission in the Commission. That bill of popular initiative had the right to be brought to the Chamber. Today we are filling our mouths with citizens, with people, with what they are asking for. The citizens had asked for a popular initiative bill to be discussed in this House, and never has a popular initiative measure arrived in this House. This is the first issue that we should address, and this does not require the reform of the Constitution: a small amendment to the Rules of Procedure is sufficient. Not even that: the commitment, like the one that has been put in for this constitutional bill, that has led the competent Commission to work until 11 in the evening to finish the examination in the day. It could have been done for those measures that have more right to be in this House, the bill of popular initiative, than those of the government. I repeat, of the Government, not of Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I hope that, when it is said that the reforms we are debating are wanted by citizens and businesses, they have not really been convinced of what is being said. If it is only a part that is being recited, it is better to say it clearly; in my opinion, it does you much more honor. Then, we saw the government launch a popular consultation, certainly meritorious, via the web on the reform. Too bad it was what we proposed in our motion, which was rejected and denigrated and now becomes the initiative of the government. We would like to make it clear that our motion was in that sense. He asked for a great popular consultation via the web (and not only), after a long debate in which citizens could say their opinion and give an address to the possible and new (if required) need for a reform of the institutional structure, precisely because from there could come the actual need. In conclusion, however, there is one thing that makes me calm, which makes us all serene. They are the awareness and the presumption that so much these reforms will not be done, because it is now customary, for 20 years now, to talk to every legislature about reforms of the institutional structure; and in the end reforms are not done. Again, we realize that this constitutional bill is nothing more than a means of delaying the debate on the substance, in the knowledge that the majority does not even agree on where they want to go. There's no line, no goal. This, in some ways, consoles us. Too bad, though, that we are wasting time instead of thinking about the real needs of the country. And - I repeat - the real needs of the country are not the reform of the institutional structure, but to carry out initiatives aimed at helping businesses and those who do not arrive at the end of the month. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u35	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u36	Mr President, I think that this Parliament is facing a fairly serious and dramatic crossroads for the country, because I believe that it is in an objectively very difficult situation, especially in economic terms. The alternative that we have in front of us is to assist helplessly to the economic and social breakdown of this country (and we have an example a few kilometers from us, in Greece) or (second hypothesis, for which I frankly support), to succeed tirelessly to put an end to the economic decline of the country, starting calmly (because it is not possible to go to rocket) an economic recovery and realizing also some reforms, certainly regulatory, but also institutional. The Senators of the 5 Star Movement and SEL Groups, and some in a personal capacity, such as Senator Tocci, said that institutional reforms are not useful. I would point out that I have great respect for all of us and, even more so, for the representatives of the opposition who do their work seriously. I think, however, that while it is true that the priority is not to cause too much economic and social trauma, it is also necessary to change our rules, because they are not good. We're a country where you never know how to decide. Senator Crimi just a few minutes ago remembered how many times we tried to change some rules without succeeding. But that is not the only problem. Unfortunately, those who have to obtain permits and authorizations every day find that, between the district (or the municipalities, as far as the big cities are concerned), the Municipality, the Province, the Region, the superintendence and the responsible for environmental goods, in the end you never know who must decide. Gentlemen, it is not by chance that foreigners are no longer invested in our country; indeed, many Italian entrepreneurs leave and relocate. We are witnessing investments in foreign capital only in the superluxury or in activities already initiated and, which do not need permissions or licenses and which do not even need ordinary, civil justice, as they take place. We all know that, if we have a credit, we just have to hope that our debtor will pay, because otherwise we have no means to pursue it. So, Mr Veltroni - who has extensive parliamentary experience, who has been Vice-President of the Council, Mayor of a city and so on - yesterday during a television debate he said something real and intelligent, which perfectly reflects the truth. He said that our country is the only country in the world in which, as soon as a government is formed, we immediately talk about what must happen to it, the same day or at the latest the next day. This was the case during the First Republic and has been continuously taking place in the Second Republic, whether the elections were won by the center-right or the center-left. We also have a case that shows that what I am saying is perhaps not entirely wrong, and that is what happens in the Italian municipalities. In the Italian municipalities, where the Mayor is elected, except in exceptional cases, the Mayor governs for five years; maybe sometimes the Junta changes, but there is an administrative continuity; in the end the citizens decide whether to reconfirm the trust, change, or, if he has already carried out two mandates, choose who will be the successor. However, the municipalities are administered as a whole. We have a machine that is too slow to decide, that has over-participated skills and that, by the way, probably for this very reason, costs citizens more than it should cost them. In the debate that has taken place today, things have been said which I do not think are entirely right. It has been said: they want to strangle the times by imposing the limit of 18 months. Gentlemen, 18 months! We are in a world in which we go so fast that to say that 18 months are few frankly seems to me to want to make almost humor, because it is not in the reality of things. It has been said, making it the subject of criticism (and of course every critical opinion is absolutely lawful and legitimate), that the Constitution is being forced. No: I believe that it is hoped that, through the parliamentary Commission and through expert advice, we will be able to put Parliament in a position to decide, within 18 months and in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 138 of the Constitution, that they are ultra-sure that Parliament takes a decision after having assessed it with great care. And then - as Senator Crimi said a few minutes ago - the text, even if approved by a two-thirds majority, will be subject to a mandatory referendum: we said that the referendum will be held anyway and that the citizens will have the last word anyway. Well, then there is no doubt that we will not be able to reform if we do not have the capacity to respond to the economic and social drama that this country faces; this is a fact. But I also think - and I hope you all hope with me - that this Parliament, a majority and opposition, a strange majority and opposition, will succeed first of all in responding to the country's priority need, which is to stop the decline and start a gradual recovery. Then I hope that it will also begin to try to revise the rules. It will not be easy, I think there will be no unanimity and I think there will be discussions, but I think it is worth it. I think that, perhaps by better organizing our work - and I share the view that some revision of our Rules of Procedure of the Senate should be done, and that it would be nice for us to do so, also to prove that we have the ability to modify ourselves, before changing the maximum systems - working and giving us to do in the first place we succeed (I hope, and I cheer for it to happen) to give economic responses to the demands of the country and, secondly, to make some reforms that make our country democratic, as it is already, but also more streamlined and able to decide. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u37	Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u38	Mr President, listening on this long day to the speeches of the many Members who have spoken, I asked myself - and I say this very sincerely - whether the opinion of those who say that it may be necessary to limit the time of the general debate, because in fact it often proposes arguments and observations that should be completed, verified in the Commission; therefore this stage can be experienced as a repetition. I have always thought that this was the case, that is, that the general debate should be limited, but today I have some doubts, because probably the many speeches that have been made justify in some way or clarify the meaning of the many absences. In fact, at this time, many colleagues are doing something else (it is known how it is going during the general discussions). I know that the Democratic Party is at the same time also engaged in another debate, even the important one, as is the one on this measure that we as a Group did yesterday and we have continued in this House today. Many Members have spoken, have expressed their opinion, have absorbed, criticized, contested or at any rate expressed their views on the measure on the agenda. I say this because on this long day the Group of the Party of European Socialists has voiced a dozen speeches, so one out of ten of our senators has spoken: this clarifies how important it is to us, as to everyone, and how serious it is to us, as it should be for everyone, the speech we are making. This is because I did not get the impression in the Commission that we were wasting time, and I am sorry to hear colleagues, who in the Commission seemed to me to be seriously engaged in this debate which, when they arrived in this House, are propaganda (because of this), easy propaganda and demagogy and claim to waste time, while they had other attitudes when it came to discussing the bill and also their amendments and agendas. However, I would like to begin my speech, which will be as brief as everyone else, and I would like to stress one thing. We are approving a draft law which sets out a procedural procedure for reform. I say this because there has been a lot of talk in this House, rightly, since the speaker is free to do so. There has often been talk of merit, even though it has not really been discussed. Therefore, even if I were to speak of merit at this time, I would express an opinion and nothing more, because there is no political position to be expressed. Well, we are discussing a procedural procedure that is approved by constitutional law precisely because, according to the Constitution, not only Article 138 but also Article 72 that someone has recalled, in order to approve the constitutional and ordinary laws that we are dealing with (or rather we will deal with), we should follow the procedure provided for in Articles 138 and 72. Instead, with the measures we are proposing and debating in Parliament, we want to constitutionalise a procedure which is not an alternative - on the contrary, it works and goes in the same direction - but it is slightly different, both for constitutional and ordinary laws. Therefore, it makes little sense to speak of the unconstitutionality of a constitutional law which, if it has an objective and achieves a result, is precisely to make constitutionally compatible the draft laws that we will go to approve from here on, the measures that will face the problems of merit. So let us be clear about this. Meanwhile, today we are by no means derogating from Article 138, so much so that the bill under consideration will be examined at the Senate, first, and at the House, then, where it will come back later for the second resolution, according to the rules established precisely by Article 138 about the times and majorities required. Once this bill becomes law - at the same time constituting a limit, but also a path to follow - we will enter into the substance and approve the other draft laws of reform, following a process that is partially different. I listened to President Finocchiaro's report - which, of course, represented the whole of the Commission, and not just my political side - and it seemed to me very clear what he said. In particular, the scope of our debate was very clear to me. Listening to the speakers, it seemed to me that I lost my sense of direction. There has been talk of many things: of disruptions, failures and so many things that already evoke results that we would like to avoid. But let us return to the facts. The draft law before us is setting up a Joint Committee, of which I would like to point out the novelty: at the political level, in fact, it already introduces a concept and a theme that concern the electoral law. Someone correctly pointed out that the establishment of this Joint Committee does not only respect the substance of the parliamentary groups, but also the votes, because in some way and in a certain sense it is said that in that majority prize which led to the composition of the current parliamentary groups in the House and in the Senate there is something wrong. The Committee is set up with this criterion in order to give a political signal of listening. We want to create a representation that is truly representative of the political forces in the field, which constitute the majority, but I would like to say - hopefully in a change of attitude - that go far beyond the same majority. In fact, we will continue to insist that these reforms must be listened to even more than the majority. Well, the Committee will have to face the reforms, which will move in a field that is now delimited, namely Titles I, II, III and V of Part II of the Constitution, with the possibility of intervening on rules contained in other Titles of the Constitution itself, if strictly necessary and related to the changes that we will be passing. This is the field. There have been polemics, especially outside the Senate and the institutions, especially in the newspapers, but polemics come well, if they have also helped us to deflate the contrasts, to find an agreement between us and to delimit the field. Someone was talking before justice. We must have a clear understanding of what we are doing, without denying the problems that exist in the country. There has been reference to Parliament's regulations, which must certainly be amended, even if this is outside the scope of the speech we are making here. There is nothing to prevent the Senate from changing its Rules of Procedure: there is no obstacle to this. The electoral law itself must certainly be amended immediately - at least this is the position of the Democratic Party Group - but there is no obstacle to this happening and taking place immediately, and we say it above all that we believe in the possibility of reforms. In fact, not having the ghost and nightmare of electoral law does not hinder reforms, but it helps them. A lot more can be done. Justice can also be discussed, but it must be done outside this package, and this has been made very clear at the time when the subject of the reforms has been defined. To those who love Article 138 so much, I would like to remind you that if we go deeper and further with the reforms and, above all, if we delete what can no longer last for all, namely the perfect bicameralism, so that tomorrow constitutional laws will no longer have to be passed by the two branches of Parliament, with a double vote in the two Chambers and if - as is credible - if something changes in the nature and composition of the Senate - also Article 138 will have to be amended. You don't have to be afraid of these things. The last thing I want to say about the process before I start my own conclusions (which are political in nature, and not technical in nature) is that the spirit underlying Article 138, which has been invoked in this House (the spirit that leads us to say that amending our Constitution requires a particular process and particular majorities, because rightly the Constitution has foreseen - and we, although we are constituted and not a constituent Assembly, reaffirm this principle - that we need something more to amend the Constitution), not only is it not limited and is not contradicted, but it is even strengthened. In fact, as President Finocchiaro linearly said, speaking of the confirmation referendum that may exist, that it might happen that something changes in the nature of the referendum in some way, because accepting a confirmation referendum even when a measure is approved by both Chambers with a two-thirds majority means giving the people and this institution a power that today Article 138 denies. So what's the point of the discussion? The point is, we don't have to cheat, because this isn't a game. Yes, of course, I know the rules that are being discussed between opposition and majority, but we cannot divide between innovators and conservatives, between those who love the Constitution and those who do not love it, otherwise we are seriously cheating here, and we know that we are cheating. We in the Democratic Party have conducted an electoral campaign talking about the most beautiful constitution in the world and now we would find ourselves instead to be those who want to overwhelm this Constitution. The truth is another: the principles of that Constitution are those that move us in the direction we are going, and if there is a difference that we must know how to operate today, it is not between those who love the Constitution and those who want to overwhelm it, but between those who have an innovative and courageous spirit and those who instead have a spirit of conservation. And it's strange that the spirit of conservation is precisely the forces that manifest themselves and present themselves as the ones they represent and listen to the citizens, when if there is something that citizens really want is change. We certainly have the time and the desire to launch these reforms, but we have no alibi on all the other issues that we can discuss. Someone spoke of the failure to implement the Constitution: but what obstacle is there to the implementation of the Constitution? I am talking about an article in the Constitution that is particularly close to my heart, since we are talking about politics and the need to sew up political relations with people and with the country. Who is stopping us from implementing Article 49 of the Constitution, which has been being discussed in part for too long? Nobody prevents us from doing this, because politics must find a new protagonism, and it must do so by self-regulation and also by passing laws in which to sanction its own principles. In conclusion, at this moment we must be absolutely aware of the importance of the stakes, and if there is one reason why I convince myself even more that the Committee is necessary is because it is necessary and indispensable to have a place where we speak seriously and serenity and where Camera and Senate are spoken at the same time, because no reform can be done if the parties between the House and the Senate start playing, as has been done in this House today between majority and opposition. Of course, I can tell you that there have been so many bicamerals in the past, yet reforms have not been made. And then it is not a matter of waiting for the failure of this attempt as well; the question to be asked is why this has happened, what are the correctives, what we have to do more in terms of passion, civic sense and sense of the institutions in carrying out these reforms. You don't always have to say no to everything. Probably at this moment the task that we have (I am not referring only to the majority, but to the political class of our country) is to make our country credible, to make it competitive on an institutional level, credible and competitive also on an economic level, and all this cannot be without reforms. Remember the calls we often hear when talking about Italy: to believe us, even outside Italy, they need to know that we are able to go beyond the preservation of the existing, because what there is has not assured us neither the governability, nor the ability to decide and change the rules of the game when necessary, nor above all, to save the economy of our country. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Senator Razzi groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u39	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u40	Mr President, I shall make a very brief reply. I would like to start by reminding you that today we are debating a procedural law and that the very interesting comments that have emerged in the course of the debate, the many ideas that are even harshly critical, are also those that are typical of the debate on constitutional reforms that we will face. I would like to make a few comments, first of all to clarify and in some way justify - but perhaps this is a downward deadline - the work we have done and what we are going to do. It is not true that the procedure laid down in Article 138 of the Constitution for reforms has always been followed in this country. We know that procedural constitutional laws have been enacted at other times, in order to grasp a requirement that was precisely to devote to a process, whether it was not constituent, but of constituted power, modification of different parts of the Constitution, instruments that would allow a greater concentration and meditation, as well as a contemperation of the opposing positions in the initial discussion. This is also the case with this procedural law: we talked about it this morning, I mentioned it in my report, so I would not want to go back there. Of course (and I do not know whether this is strictly within the scope of the rapporteur's function, perhaps I am giving myself a right of speech that I would not have, but let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen), given that Parliament's centrality has been at the heart of our reflection, in the speeches of all our colleagues, in any political group, and it has also been the first concern on the basis of which we came to the text today before this House, so much so that the Government has left previously outlined positions in order to arrive at a text that celebrates Parliament's centrality in the context of reforms, I find it somewhat uncomfortable to listen to so many judgments regarding the legitimacy of this House and of the House to decide on constitutional reform. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bruno]] We cannot at the same time be celebrative and delegitimanate of Parliament's strength. Mr Tocci used the word 'humility', he said that we must be humble and note our inability; some colleagues even spoke of the absence of moral legitimacy to address this issue. I respect everyone's opinions, which are all sacred here, but I believe that when you are in this House, since you are there because you have made a bet with yourself and with respect to your constituents, to your own reference area - let us call it that - the only humility that must be recognized and that must be practiced is the humility of responsibility. You can resign from your duties, but not from the responsibility that that function brings. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And if you do the parliamentarians, you are one of the 1,000 Italians who are parliamentarians of the Republic and you must try to do the best you can. We insist on legitimacy, but I would like to remind all those who with full political legitimacy are opposed to this text that the legitimacy of those who oppose is identical to the legitimacy of those who work on the text, trying to do the best possible work, in compliance with the rules and institutions and in fulfillment of the duty to which each of us is held. Forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, this incipit, but we are starting a very important job and I believe that starting it with the right foot, and even with the right feeling, is useful. Then, of course, to some of you it will probably seem unimportant this defence of Parliament, but I believe that if it really became common sense among the Italians the idea that this is a useless place, I imagine the loss of a country that knows that it has no institutions. [[Applause from the PD, PDL, SCPI and LAG groups]] And I think that this, beyond what we think, is risky, very risky. We obviously have too much faith in the institutions and in our democracy, which is, fortunately, very strong in order to be able to take this risk. As I said to my colleagues in the preamble, I have tried to collect the echoes of the debate on certain aspects again, and I know that one of the aspects that is being discussed above all by my fellow Members who oppose this text is that of delimiting the powers of the Committee and, in particular, the need for Parliament to retain all its powers and powers. In this respect, I have tabled a number of amendments, together with these further suggestions, which once again specify the scope, which I believe to be much better defined, which falls within the competence of the Committee. These amendments also contain a provision containing further suggestions made in the Commission by colleagues from the League and the 5 Star Movement and proposing a better definition of the rules relating to the Committee's Bureau. I have deposited the text with the Offices and I imagine that a deadline will be set for the submission of sub-amendments, so that we can deal with the debate and the vote. I really want to thank all my colleagues for their cooperation and once again let me thank the Senate Offices for their excellent cooperation. [[Applause from the PD, PDL, SCPI and LAG groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u41	I call the Minister for Constitutional Reform, Senator Quagliariello.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few moments ago, the rapporteur spoke of the need for us to start off on the right foot in this work that we are about to do. In fact, I believe that this requirement exists for any work you undertake. In this particular task, however, there may be some more reason. I believe that we are at the heart of parliamentaryism and, in particular, at the heart of the relationship between executive power and legislative power. We are starting a constitutional review process. We are amending our Constitution; we are amending it in important parts, but we are safeguarding not only its installation but also its fundamental principles. 18.58 (Followed by Mr Quagliarello, Minister for Constitutional Reforms). We are doing this because these changes are part of the program of a very particular government that we have given ourselves at a time of institutional difficulties; of a government that has decided to invest its very existence in this game and even to give itself a Minister for Constitutional Reforms. We are doing so knowing that the characteristic of the parliamentary regime - of our parliamentary regime - is that the two powers, the executive and the legislative, have an area of autonomy and separation but also a necessary link which is guaranteed by the vote of confidence and which represents the characteristic of the parliamentary regime. It is what differentiates him on the one hand from assembly, where Parliament is the leader, and on the other from the classical presidential regime, on the American model, where the government is divided by legislative power, does not communicate with it, rather it deals with us. This characteristic (the need to identify the right degree of autonomy and the necessary link between the two powers) is obviously exalted when there is a modification of the Constitution to be done, especially in the historical circumstances given. Therefore, I have assumed this period - the period which has elapsed since the Government presented the draft law in this Chamber to date, when the general discussion ended - as an attempt to find the right calibration between autonomy and connection, between separation and necessary collaboration. The starting point was not easy, but I think that along the way many misunderstandings have failed and many things have been clarified, starting with one in particular. I would like to address my colleague, Mr Crimi, who I always appreciate the clarity of the speeches. It is true: this law is a law of the Government, but it was born following a motion from Parliament asking the Government to present it. It was therefore an act of respect, even more than respect, towards the centrality of Parliament. The parliamentary motion, in fact, has been translated into prose by the Government in full, respecting also some aspects that could perhaps have been clarified from the outset and which, on the other hand, have rightly been defined through a debate in the Commission that has seen Parliament as the protagonist. Starting with the problem of the time taken: the 18-month indication was in fact present in the motion, and I think it was a fair indication. Time is obviously an authorising limit and does not have its own obligation. On the other hand, we must consider two equally real elements: on the one hand, thirty years of debate on these issues, which have allowed us to unravel everything from a technical point of view; on the other, the fact that we are faced with a crisis, the one we are living with, which is now lasting more than the time of a world war of the twentieth century; a crisis that is changing not only political culture, but also many of the cultural and political categories with which we are accustomed to living and which leads us to say that nothing after it will be like before. First of all, the tasks of the State will not be the same. Let me just focus on one aspect. Let's think about how the relationship between business and work has crossed the culture of the '900: it was a relationship lived on opposite or at least distinct barricades, whether it belonged to the culture of the free market or to Marxist interpretations and even corporate ones. On the contrary, today, in this crisis, we also notice from the reading of newspapers that entrepreneurs and workers are on the same side - sometimes dramatically on the same side - and in some cases they are united by tragic stories of which we are informed every day. We cannot believe that the tasks of the State and the tasks of our institutions are the same. Opening a discussion at this level does not mean wasting time. It means projecting ourselves into our task of reform forward, considering the defeats and also the work we have behind us. That is why I believe that the 18-month indication has been an element of awareness on the part of Parliament. Because parliamentary centrality cannot only be invoked in the classrooms: parliamentary centrality must also be nourished by the awareness of what is in the country, of what the country expects. And on this ground he expects that no time will be wasted, that there will not be another reference. I believe that in this respect all political forces should carry out a self-critical analysis of the way in which we have approached this issue in the last parliamentary term. Perhaps the electoral results of a few months ago were also the result of a deafness that perhaps, at times, has also benefited from a declaration of centrality of Parliament that we have not been able to translate into action. But if those 18 months were an element of balance and - if you want - of responsibility, in order to balance the fact that we are amending the Constitutional Charter of our country, the fundamental Charter, and the fact that we cannot even give the impression that we want to mess with reforms - as has been written - it was right that the distribution of this time should be carried out in Parliament. That is why the Government has supported the debate that took place in the Commission and has, together with the senators of the 1st Commission, come to define a different deadline than the one envisaged. In this context, I believe that it is also possible to provide for a division of tasks. If Parliament is to make the best use of the time that has been entirely devoted to it, it is up to the Government to ensure that that time-scale programme that has been given to us in full freedom is respected and that reforms are not once again an instrument to lengthen the times, and it does not matter if it is about the times of the legislature or those of the life of the Government. We know, never as in this case, that both the legislature and the current Government must stand as long as they serve the country and as long as they do and produce something useful for its citizens. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, in the limitation of the subjects provided for by law, originally using formulas as a form of State, form of Government, bicameralism and electoral law, then rightly retouched and translated in the indication of Titles I, II, III and V, it was evident that the Government could have predicted from the beginning that there could be consequences for connection even beyond the limit of matters for which the special procedure that we are passing on is valid. It is clear that where there is a need, for coordination, to enter other areas (I would even say, in Part I of the Constitution, regarding the electoral rules that designate the representation of Italians abroad), the Committee must be free to do so. If the Government has not foreseen this in its draft law, it is because, in this case too, it has wanted to fully respect the prerogatives of Parliament, because it was right that this debate should take place in the parliamentary Chambers, and in particular in the Commission. I witnessed that debate in its entirety. And I never had the doubt that the amendments tabled were an end other than that of responding to this requirement, because they were presented without words leaving doubt of interpretation. Certainly not, ladies and gentlemen, so that there is no awareness, even in the Government, that the problem of the relationship between the judiciary and political power is one of the most important chapters of a reform of the state. We can have the most different judgements, but on the fact that there is the need to intervene on an aspect that has determined the end - and I would say also a traumatic end - of governments both center-right and center-left, I believe that none of us have doubts. But precisely because there is this awareness, no one can believe that this issue was to be dealt with by means of an amendment tabled as a submissive. This is a great topic on which we will have to confront ourselves and on which the confrontation within the Government will open. We also have a clear trace of possible reforms that come from the Commission wanted by the President of the Republic of Naples, in which the reforms concerning justice were agreed not only between representatives from the centre of the right, the centre and the centre of the left, but even with a representative of the school of the judiciary. That is the programme we are looking at and no one has ever intended to sneak something different into this process, for the respect that is due to a process of constitutional revision, but also - let me say this - for the respect that is due to the importance of the issue of relations between the judiciary and political power. This is not an issue that can be dealt with through an amendment. Even in this case, net of some journalistic controversy that is sometimes the attempt to shake the water inside a glass, we have come not only to understand ourselves but also to find the best definition. As far as the electoral law is concerned, it has been even more specific than the competence of the Committee of the 40 that we will go to form is the electoral law regime, which does not have a binding relationship with the form of government and with the overall structure of the political system, but it certainly has a connection with it. We do not say this, but the teachers of constitutionalism have explained it to us, starting with the theorist of parliamentarism, that Walter Bagehot who considered the electoral system as one of the fundamental elements of the Cabinet system. This also means having matured within the Government common awareness that for thirty years one of the mistakes that has been made and that we have all made together, is the desire to have placed on the shoulders too difficult of the electoral law the weight of an entire reform of the system. It is an ancient vice, which is of the history of Italy and which has its roots even in the season of liberal Italy, when the opponents of Giolitti would have wanted to take it out by changing the electoral law and, then, in the attitude of those who have unfairly charged to proportional the damage of having brought an authoritarian regime. This ancient vice, in more recent times, has even become parody. Suffice it to say that only a few decades ago, there were those who said that the cure for our system would consist in the elimination of preferences. A referendum on this was also held. The same people, a few decades later, in some cases, believe that panic can be the re-introduction of preferences. Let's say that electoral law is an important part of a more overall balance of system. That is what reform will be about, leaving the necessary room for autonomy for Parliament, political forces and parliamentary groups to find possible solutions that could be triggered by emergencies. Colleagues senators, I believe that an important result has been achieved in the Commission, not only in the climate, but also in the dialogue that has taken place with the oppositions. I have not yet heard - for intellectual honesty I would like someone to say a word - a comment on the fact that, when this debate began, we were talking about a convention in which Members and so-called lay people were present, who have a source of legitimacy - in this case, yes, the category of legitimacy must be disturbed - very different. In fact, parliamentarians are legitimized by the popular vote, while others would be appointed. This convention should have written powers and later the reform should have passed to the single vote of a college in which Chamber and Senate should have expressed themselves together. Well, it seems to me that from those days a little water under the bridges has passed, and perhaps, if someone really cares about the centrality of Parliament, he should recognize it and he should also recognize that the Government has done something for this centrality to be affirmed. Today we are in the presence of something very different, which I would like to call a strengthened "138', because the rules on referendums and the fact that referendums can cover homogeneous and self-sufficient matters are an additional guarantee and not a less guarantee: perhaps this should be recognised. However, beyond this recognition that has been lacking - but there is always time and as long as there is time for hope - I would also like to point out how, on the need to integrate Parliament's debate with the use of new media as well, considerable progress has been made, and I believe that considerable progress has been made. I'm glad the Senator Crimes' recognition of the government's initiative. If the Government has taken charge of that initiative, just as it has been charged to consult 35 teachers on matters relating to this subject at a time when Parliament does not work on the substance of the reforms, it has also done so in order to respect the centrality of Parliament. These elements, in fact, are a way of bringing the debate out of the Palace, of trying to enrich it and of offering it to Parliament's reflection, but they must be free to do with it what they want, to consider the different aspects, to consider them partially or even to put them aside, whether they come from the wisdom of some university professors or from the network, because the centrality of Parliament either always or never applies. We believe that we must respect the fact that the Commission can work without external interference. It is in this respect that we have contributed to an agenda which means those instruments as an enrichment of parliamentaryism, because parliamentaryism in its history has often changed. It was not the same when the parliaments were born and when the parties were little more than elitist clubs; it became a different thing when the masses entered public life and the parties became mass integration parties; and it changed again when the national press was born, then radio and television. Now we are at another hairpin, which is right to consider because the strength of parliamentarism is precisely to be able to adapt itself, to be the most flexible system that has been conceived so far in the history of politics. But parliamentaryism has some basic principles that must be respected. This is the approach with which we try to face the debate and, hopefully, the months that will see us active in this work, aware that we must be able to adapt to the news, open to listening, get out of the palace and the rhetoric of the palace, but at the same time we must respect those principles of parliamentaryism that were worth yesterday and are valid today. Because the conditions under which those principles adapt change, but basic principles do not. Senator Compagna said, with an image I would call colorful, that Parliament is a bicycle and the Ministry of Economy is a tank. I don't know if the metaphor is perfect, but if I can take it back, I hope instead that Government and Parliament will be able to occupy a Smart, in which they stand next to each other, and they know when to drive one and the other. I think we have gone through a difficult time and we have understood not only the proportions but also the calibration of the respective interventions and the respective spaces of autonomy. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I close the debate with much more serenity than I had on the day that I presented the constitutional bill in this House. If it is not a good start, at least it is a good omen. [[Applause from the PdL, PD, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and Senators Bencini and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u43	I thank the Minister for Constitutional Reforms, Senator Quagliariello, for his contribution to the debate with his reply. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinions expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission on draft law No 813 and the amendments related to it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u44	The Economic Planning Committee, the budget, examined the draft law in title and the amendments thereto, submitted by the Assembly, shall express, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion which does not preclude the text. With regard to the amendments, the opinion is simply contrary to the proposals 1.42, 2.36, 2.0.2, 6.0.1 and 8.1. The opinion is without prejudice to all remaining amendments. The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined amendments 1,300, 2,300, 2,301 and 4,300, relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as its competence is concerned, an opinion of no obstacle.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency states that the agendas for the G105, G107, G108, G113 and amendment 2.100, as they anticipate substantive issues relating to specific reforms, are therefore unrelated to the content of the draft constitutional law under consideration, which contains provisions for the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms, introducing procedural rules. The Presidency also states that Amendment 9,100 is unacceptable, as it introduces a framework which cannot be applied to the measure we are considering.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u48	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. In order to ensure that the amendments and the agendas are discussed and dealt with, we ask you, having appreciated the circumstances, to postpone the vote until tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u51	BRUNO (PdL). Mr President, I would just like to point out, as requested by President Finocchiaro, that, since new amendments have been tabled, the Presidency should set a deadline for the submission of sub-amendments, so that, if this deadline were contained today or tomorrow morning, at the first hour, we could proceed with the work in a more orderly manner tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u52	The deadline for submitting sub-amendments is 8.30 p.m. this evening, so that these amendments can be examined. As there are no comments, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u55	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, colleagues who are leaving the Chamber (and I regret that), it is incredible how in this country you get used to everything. There are so many disasters and of this magnitude that an earthquake of 5.2 degrees of the Richter scale almost does not make any news. We of the 5 Star Movement, however, do not want to get used to degradation and discomfort, and we always signal and denounce. Well, in my area of origin, the high Tuscany, the territory in recent times has been the subject of several catastrophes, until the earthquake of 21 June, which recorded the very high level of magnitude 5.2. (Brusio). Mr President, we are talking here, however, about an earthquake in an area that is quite distracted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let Senator Paglini intervene. Mr Paglini (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. Also tonight there was a further shock of 3.5, and another few hours ago. The villages of Garfagnana and Lunigiana are on their knees. The earthquake that began to terrorize citizenship from the first day to today has caused more than 1,600 shocks, and some very strong (from 4.2 and 4.4), such as the one that I had the opportunity to warn two Sundays ago just as I was visiting the area. The country of Kingdom and all the surroundings have trembled at the unlikely, practically the heart of the epicenter. Seconds endless, which I assure you do not forget. You know a scream coming from the center of the earth? Eventually one does not understand whether they terrorize more the things that move around and collapse or the cry of the earth that torments the eardrums. And when the dust rises all around, then you better understand why the frightened looks of the citizens. In the municipalities of Fivizzano, Casola, Minucciano and Giuncugnano people live every moment as the moment when a new shock can occur. In Monzone, Gragnola, Codiponte, Equi Terme, Vigneta and Regnano the inhabitants, now resigned, sleep in the centers set up by volunteers for emergencies or in their cars. The majority of the population consists of elderly people, especially women, who have well-established habits and an attachment to the territory understandable; in fact, many of them have animals to care for and fields to cultivate. Therefore, their distrust of moving to RSA centres is taken for granted. The Lunigiana and the Garfagnana are places set inside the Upper Tuscany, a territory linked by a strong rural tradition, villages that look like cribs, with villages, castles and Romanesque parishes of rare beauty. From the first statements of the head of civil protection Franco Gabrielli, who had initially used the word "non event" to catalog such events, it was thought that the earthquake had not had serious consequences. Well, today, after having had to visit, certainly not exclusively from the top of a helicopter, these municipalities and their individual hamlets, it is evident the housing disaster; in fact some villages are declared red zone. Between Lunigiana and Garfagnana to date are inaccessible almost 1,000 homes. Yesterday Senator Barani said he regretted Guido Bertolaso. We say today that the Lunigiana, already has enough disasters so of its [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And we hope for those territories that they will never again see inadequate people in action, nor commercial promises of new dentures to old ladies by pathetic politicians. For this disaster was decreed a few days ago the state of emergency: will the 5 million euros promised by the government arrive? And if so, when? However, we have a doubt: these resources will not be sufficient to meet the commitments for reconstruction, since the earthquake is continuing in a strong way and the damage is increasing day by day. Citizens affected by the earthquake would like to return to normal. Only if all the necessary measures are actually taken will we be able to say that we have done our duty; then we will rebuild and secure the buildings immediately. The 5 Star Movement will watch and not leave alone the inhabitants, so tried, of Lunigiana and Garfagnana. Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Sangalli and Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u56	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-62.ana.u57	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 10 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.33.
