ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.39. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u3	I communicate that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Health: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 24 of 25 March 2013 laying down urgent provisions in the field of health" (298).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u4	I communicate that the members of the Board for the Rules of Procedure, as referred to in Rule 18 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, have been appointed. The list will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u5	I also inform you that the parliamentary groups have appointed their representatives to the Special Commission for the examination of draft laws for the conversion of decree-laws and other urgent measures submitted by the Government, the composition of which will be published in the annex to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u6	The Conference of Leaders has just ended, at which I informed you that a change of agenda had to take place today. The news that Minister Terzi has submitted his resignation has certainly made the information which he should have made available in this House and which he has already made available to the House not topical. In the Conference of the Leaders it was therefore decided unanimously to supersede the information referred to today's agenda and to proceed tomorrow's sitting, Wednesday 27 March 2013, at 5.30 p.m. with the following agenda: information of the President of the Council on the story of the two rifles of Marina Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone. The government's information agenda for the President-in-Office of the Council has therefore been amended, which will have to report to this House both on the affair of the Maròs, as the government would have done today, and on the political situation that has arisen in relation to the resignation of Minister Terzi. This should therefore be the subject of tomorrow's sitting, which should see the presence of the President of the Monti Council for this information. It remains firm that, after the President of the Council of Ministers has spoken, representatives of the Groups will be able to speak for ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u9	Mussolini (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would not have liked to have started my first speech in this House, which I respect and in fact I will not repeat the abusive words of an advisor from the Region of Sicily, Battiato. [[Applause from Senator Faithful]] These are very serious statements, because they offend not only us women, but the institutions. Mr President, I could say that Article 290 of the penal code is being violated, which deals with the villainy of the Republic, the constitutional institutions and the armed forces. I will not say that. I make a request, Mr President, to you who made a passage that I liked, saying that the Chambers must respond immediately to the insults. At such a delicate time, it is unacceptable for women in Parliament to be insulted by certain expressions, among other things. I mean, even with regard to women who do weary jobs, but why not respect everyone? So, Mr President, I would like to ask you for important action. I ask Crocetta to immediately formalize the resignation of this councilman who is not worthy of participating in a democratic assembly. Many times, Mr President, we have all fought together; we feel offended and we are all offended. We did battles: every day a woman dies for the feminicide and it is important to conduct together a common battle on this that no longer has to happen. [[Applause from the PdL, PD, SCpI, LN-Aut and Mixed-SEL Groups).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u10	Senator Mussolini, you can only have full membership, not only the one witnessed by the applause that this House has given you, but also by the Presidency in relation to this insult to Parliament and to all the women who make up it. We will therefore take the necessary steps towards the President of the Region; what he has asked is out of our institutional competence, but we will certainly show the discomfort (to use an understatement) of this Assembly towards a council member of the Sicilian Region. Of course we will.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u11	Mr President, I have been asking for ten minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u13	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I asked for the floor before your speech because I wanted to stress that - as Senator Mussolini pointed out earlier in this House - I too consider very serious the words spoken by a Sicilian Councillor: I consider them serious for women and I consider them serious also as a man. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, LN-Aut and SCpI groups.]] I think they are unacceptable for the vulgarity of the expression that has been used, but also unacceptable from an institutional point of view, because Parliament remains always the heart of our democracy. Therefore, we cannot allow Parliament to be treated in this way. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, LN-Aut and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u16	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I too am very sorry to be speaking for the first time in this House because I too must express my indignation at what has been said, and also at an institutional forum such as that of the European Parliament. The Councillor Battiato, in the exercise of his institutional role, offended the Parliamentary institution and offended all Italian women who are represented in this Parliament. Therefore, I hope that you, Mr President, in the full exercise of your duties, will represent our sentiment to the other institution (the Sicilian Region) and that you will also represent it to the President of the European Parliament, because for the first time in this parliamentary term there are many women in Parliament and we are able to reduce the gap between us and all the other civil countries of Europe. I would not want this to be an improvement, an advance of Italy, to be at a stroke delegitimized by the truly irresponsible words of a person who, perhaps, could more worthily continue to be a singer. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u19	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, of course, we agree with the remarks made so quickly by my fellow Members in this House. However, I have asked to speak on what you have announced regarding the change in the work of this House. At the Conference of Leaders, I asked you to finish my speech, but you have finished your work and we have come to this House. I would have liked to point out to you my disagreement, as I had already represented you, not so much about the formula as about the substance of what we have decided to do. I represented you at the Conference of the Leaders a difficulty in interpreting the formulas with which we will address both the problem of Marina rifles and that of resignation, for now in itinere (as you have explained), of Minister Terzi. We believe that the Senate of the Republic should have had precise information about Marina's rifles, because it had already taken place in the House and had its own specific interest. I imagine that all the parliamentary groups had their own idea to express after the Government's communications, on which everyone would have spoken, judging in a more or less positive way the Commission's work on that matter. Another thing is the fact that President Monti comes to report on the resignation of one of his ministers. Mr President, as I represented you at the Conference of the Leaders (I do not want to make any controversy, but only to clarify the position of our Parliamentary Group), we believe that the two situations are different: on the one hand, there is information about Marina's gunmen and, on the other, there is information about the resignation of Minister Terzi. It is true that there is a concause - as has obviously been pointed out - but it is two different facts. I believe that the Members of Parliament, my fellow senators and my fellow senators are interested, on the one hand, in knowing the situation of our Maròs and, on the other hand, in the situation of the dissent (as it seemed) of a Minister, who has resigned in a somewhat particular way, between a communication to a House and a communication to the other House. I apologise, Mr President, if I have tediedied my fellow senators, but I wanted to point out that there was no real unanimity in the Group Leaders, because in the end I no longer had the opportunity to point out my dissent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u20	Let us try to heal your alleged unheard voice at the Conference of Leaders. I say "pretentious" because I didn't realize it, in fact I never denied the word to anyone. Having said that, I shall be speaking to the President-in-Office of the Council about his needs so that tomorrow's information takes account of his remarks.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u23	CRIMI (M5S). Given that we also join in the interventions to deprecate the language used by the Councillor Battiato for women, my speech focuses on another issue, on a procedural issue. We intend, in fact, to stigmatize a coercion of the Rules of Procedure which took place at the last sitting, in particular with regard to the setting up of the Special Commission, because Article 24 of the Senate Rules provides that the Special Commission is to be set up by the Senate, thus excluding not only the Conference of the Leaders from this faculty but also the simple taking of action of the Assembly. Moreover, the establishment of this Commission also underlies a much more serious determination for us, that is, to differ unreasonably and unreasonablely, only because of the pressure of certain parliamentary groups, the deadline provided for in Article 21 (1) of the Rules of Procedure relating to the establishment of the standing committees, already announced at the previous meeting, which was before 8 p.m. yesterday. Therefore, we believe that the regularity provided for in the Rules of Procedure should be restored, by carrying out immediately the appointment of the members of the standing committees, rather than by appointing a special Commission. Among other things, the Special Commission has not only been determined to examine the draft laws pending in the interval between the formation of the Chambers and the Permanent Commissions, but it is also extended to the treatment of not better defined other urgent measures and the only urgent measure is the Government's Report on the prospects for growth of the economy and the development of public finances. Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate then regulates the statement of urgency in the first paragraph, providing that the Assembly of the Senate may also decide on the matter by show of hands, given the scope of competence of the Special Commission in relation to urgent measures. We therefore call, in order, for the necessary establishment of the standing committees to be immediately and without delay by revising the decision to postpone until 8 p.m. on Thursday 4 April the deadline within which the groups must communicate the nominations. If this postponement should continue, in line with the spirit and the letter of Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure, we ask that the Senate Assembly be allowed to arrange for the establishment of a special Commission, so that the Assembly should vote on it, and that it should, in accordance with Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, arrange for the Assembly to take a decision on the matter assigned to it the statement of urgency of other acts or measures, such as that which we shall be dealing with next Tuesday, and, in any case, submit to the Committee for the Rules of Procedure the interpretation relating to Article 21 (1) so that it is not possible to amend it without having been moved to the Chamber. It is not merely a formal act that we intend to propose, but a line that we intend to keep throughout this parliamentary term, that is, that compliance with the rules comes before any other initiative aimed at deferring some important obligations linking them to the satisfaction of attractive armchairs, because that is what finally came out in the context of the Conference of the Leaders Group, in the appointment of the Presidents of the Commission subordinate to the formation of the Government and the majorities. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Spilabotte.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u24	Senator Crimes, thank you for your cooperation in interpreting the rules of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, but I recall that the decisions taken yesterday by the Conference of Leaders, including the postponement of the deadline for the appointment of representatives of the Groups in the Permanent Commissions, were taken unanimously by all participants without any exception. This implies the finality of the same, as laid down in Rule 55, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure. Among other things, the Commissions have been appointed, which is very different from the Commissions' call. As you know for having participated in the Conference of Leaders, it has been postponed for organisational reasons, especially for the larger groups, with a brief postponement of the appointment of the members of the Commissions. With regard to the establishment of the Special Commission, it should be stressed that the procedure adopted on the basis of Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure fully corresponds to the precedents of the last three legislatures, i.e. the decision of the Group Leaders to propose to the Senate the establishment of the Special Commission, subsequently ratified by the Assembly with the formula that we have respected of the contradictive nemine: i.e., in the absence of any comments, it is intended to be approved. On a proposal from the Conference of Group Leaders at yesterday's sitting, after the Presidency gave the sentence "if there are no comments," so it remains established, there was no dissenting intervention, so the establishment of the Commission was final. As regards the request for a specific resolution by the Assembly on the statement of urgency pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, which you have invoked, for the Government's Report on the prospects for economic growth and the development of public finances, I would like to stress how this would mean, as per the Rules of Procedure, only the reduction of the deadlines to half, so it would not be useful for a prompt examination of the document, as unanimously agreed at the Conference of the Leaders. As you know, the report has been drawn up at the same time for Tuesday, 2 April. On the other hand, the application of the urgency procedure referred to in Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, which you referred to, would have reduced the time limits laid down in Rule 125-a (2) and (4) to ten and fifteen days, respectively, rather than to the eight days as in fact occurred with the decision of the Conference of Leaders to set a timetable for Tuesday, 2 April in this Chamber. Finally, as regards the interpretation of the regulations referred to, the Presidency reserves the right to refer the matter to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure as soon as it is operational, and you know that a deadline has already been set for the appointment of members of the Council. So I think we can proceed quietly and calmly to the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u27	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, let me just point out that at the Conference of the Leaders I had repeatedly stressed our position on the speedy establishment of the Permanent Commissions. Given that the end of 8 p.m. on Monday had been adopted unanimously and ratified at the previous sitting, but at the next Conference of Leaders this deadline has been changed, I believe that today's comments can be accepted in this respect and not only on the basis of the unanimity of the Conference of Leaders. You will recall that the previous decision to maintain the deadline of 8 p.m. on Monday was also taken unanimously, without any comments in this House, and yet it has been called into question and amended. As far as urgency is concerned, I would like to stress that the resolution we are going to vote on Tuesday is a measure of considerable importance, to which we do not wish to escape, and indeed we want it to be deepened in all its components. In order to do so, we believe that the referral to a single special Commission, established in this way, is limiting, for a measure that really concerns high profiles, which involves the next two years, with an outgoing Government and a Government that should enter within the next few weeks. Therefore, we believe that the application of urgency, and therefore the halving of the terms (from 15 to 8 days or - as expected - 10, now I don't remember), however, bringing it to that ordinaryity would allow a greater deepening of a measure for us important.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u28	I am not reminding you that a conference of group leaders has been convened precisely because some more groups have been represented the need to have more time to proceed with the nominations, without at all turning back on the need for nominations. You are well aware of this because you attended the Conference of Leaders and there was no comment on the further deadline. So let's confirm what we've decided.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u31	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I just wanted to remind my colleague, Mr Crimi, why the Conference of Leaders also agreed on speeding up the timetable, on which I also believe his Group will agree: this document and the adoption of a resolution on the document presented by the Government are preparatory, because the framework of public finance is being redefined, to the issuing of a decree on the payment of corporate loans to the public administration. Then it is a question of assessing whether it is more important to speed up the discussion in the Senate and the House or to keep the companies waiting, which are in a situation of absolute suffering. I believe that the Senate may not have grasped the substantial motivation of this accelerated procedure and I think it is right that this is present to all of us because we have an absolute urgency, that of the country; with that we must compare our times and not with baroque procedural constraints. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u34	BONFRISCO (PdL). Mr President, I agree, both in substance and in substance, with the words just spoken by Vice-President Lanzillotta, but I would like to remind you that there is a procedural issue already covered by the changes made in the last parliamentary term to Article 81 of the Constitution, and therefore to the budgetary constraint, and by the procedures agreed between the Italian State, like all other Member States, and the European Union, on the deadlines to be met before they can face the decree. That is why yesterday President Monti reminded us of the constitutional procedure that obliges him to submit this decree only after those changes on the document of economy and finance, which must first be carried out and then you can face the decree. This is the reason why I believe we have come unanimously to the conclusion that this is the best procedure, the fastest, but above all the most respectful of the norm, before even entering into the merit, which - it has remembered so well the vice president Lanzillotta - is then the thing that we care more: to give the enterprises immediate answers. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u35	I think that we are all in agreement on the urgency of these problems, and that is what Senator Crimi, who also represented this urgency at the Conference of the Leaders, cannot help but be the same.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u38	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I take the floor quickly... [[Protests.) ...]] Only quickly, to reiterate the urgency on which we all agree. We believe, however, that the measure must be deepened because there are profiles on the substance that do not convince us and in particular on the destination of the banks, and not directly to the companies, of the 40 billion foreseen by the measure. We therefore believe that this is a coercion. That is why we would need more time to deepen the measure on the substance. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u39	All right, Senator Crimi, the Special Commission, through joint hearings, as you know, with the House, will have plenty of time to look into the matter and to have the full knowledge of the measures under consideration and the measures taken. In this respect, therefore, your work in the special Commission will only help in this acceleration. Moreover, within the framework of the special committees, especially those dealing with budgetary issues, there is absolutely no contingency time and one can go to night hours. The Budget Commissions are used to these times.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u42	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, I take advantage of the subject dealt with at the end of the sitting, the dignity and honour of the Members of Parliament, to point out that ten days ago on state television, in Gianluigi Paragon's "The Last Word" broadcast, a service was aired in which an actor, dealing as a parliamentarians, with his wife in turn, was taken up in pharmacies, hotels, restaurants, private schools around Parliament, taking the interlocutors by surprise, including a Sinhalese from the pharmacy in front of the Chamber of Deputies. The point of the service was that Members, naturally overpaid, enjoy conventions and therefore have a discount on the restaurant, on the bar and if in the nursery there is no place for the children of normal people for their children there is immediately the place and, indeed, they pay half, they have the discount at the pharmacy and so on. I assure you that if one had to take for real the things said in that service, the suggestion to the music, the first time he had met a Member would have to lynch him and he would have been right to do so. Too bad it's totally fake. In fact, I turned to the Senate Presidency, then to that of the House, and I had it certified in writing that no convention of the Senate or the House is in force with bars, restaurants, hotels, kindergartens, pharmacies and so on. Once I acquired the certification I wrote to the President of the Senate, to the President of the Chamber, to the President and to the Director-General of RAI, I spoke to the latter and sent a warning to Paragon so that last Friday, at least, he would be pleased to say that what the actor had represented was destitute of every foundation. Of course the correction, Mr President, has not been made. Mr President, I appreciate your sensitivity when you are directly involved in painful events that can rightly provoke reactivity, but I would point out that Members are already in a difficult situation and this continuous stream of lies and falsehoods about them not only destroys the image of the Member of Parliament but also that of democracy. I would therefore ask the President, since I did not manage to ensure that state television had the pleasure to say that what he told millions and millions of Italians is totally false, to help me get a correction. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and SCpI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u43	Definitely, Senator Giovanardi.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u44	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-5.ana.u45	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 27 March, at 5.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.14 p.m.
