ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 5 September.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 4.44 p.m. and resumed at 4.54 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u6	Let's resume our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would once again ask for the quorum to be checked. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,57 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u13	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups approved changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable until 26 September 2013. (Brusio). Colleagues, I would invite you to lower the volume of your voice, because it is otherwise complex to speak and be able to listen. This week, after the discussion of the draft law for the account and settlement of the state budget, we will move on to the statements of urgency on the draft laws reported by the Groups pursuant to Article 81 of the Regulation, as well as to the examination of the Government Report on the effects for public finance deriving from the measures contained in Decree-Law No 102 on the matter of IMU. Tomorrow morning, at 11 a.m., the Minister of Justice will make a statement on the reorganisation of judicial districts, while in the afternoon, at 4 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make a statement on the G20 Summit in St Petersburg. For both information groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes. Finally, the timetable for the current week provides for the discussion of motions on the combustion of waste in cement factories. Next week, starting from the afternoon session on Tuesday 17, the decree-law on the enhancement of cultural assets and activities and the ratification of the Agreement between Albania, Greece and Italy on the project "Trans Adriatic Pipeline" will be discussed. At the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 18, the vote will be taken on the election of two members of the Administrative Justice, Court of Auditors and Tax Justice Councils. In agreement with the Presidency of the Chamber of Deputies, it will be convened for the formation of the Presidency Offices of the bicameral Commissions and the Italian Delegations at the International Parliamentary Assemblies. On Thursday 19, at 4 p.m., the Minister of Defence will reply to immediate questions under Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure. In the week from 24 to 26 September the Assembly will examine the decree-law on public administration, the Document establishing a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators, as well as the bill on the demolition of abusive works. At the opening of the afternoon sessions on Tuesday 17, Wednesday 18, Tuesday 24 and Wednesday 25 September, the figures of Senators Giulio Andreotti, Franca Rame, Emilio Colombo and Umberto Carpi will be remembered respectively.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u14	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following programme of the Senate's work until December 2013: - Drawings of law for the conversion of decrees-laws - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the competent Commission - Budgetary documents - Arrangement and Account of the State's Budget - Internal Budget and Statement of the Senate - Documents defined by the Board of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities - Motions - Interrogations and Questions - Document LVII- bis, No 2 - Report to Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 10 bis, paragraph 6, of Law No 196 of 31 December 2009 - Document XXII, No 10 - Establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators - Drawing of Law No 580 - Provisions for the rationalization of skills in the demolition of abusive artifacts.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u15	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 26 September 2013: [[Tuesday, September 10 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Legal drawings no. 888 and 889 - 2012 account and 2013 settlement (final votes with the presence of the quorum) - Votes for the statement of urgency under Article 81 of the Regulation, on the draft law: · n. 119 - Protected areas · n. 120 and 370 - Port legislation reform · n. 121 - Environmental provisions - Information by the Minister of Justice on the reorganisation of judicial districts (Wednesday 11, 11 am) - Information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the G20 summit in St Petersburg (Wednesday 11, 16.00) - Doc. LVII-a n. 2 - Report of the Government on the effects for public finance of the measures of Decree-Law No 102 of 31 August 2013, in the matter of IMU Motions on the combustion of waste in cement factories Wednesday 11 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16-20 Thursday 12 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday, September 12 pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to bill No 1014 (Decree-Law No 91, enhancement of cultural assets and activities) should be tabled by 7 p.m. on Thursday 12 September. [[Tuesday, September 17 pom. h. 16-20 - Drawing of law n. 1014 - Decree-Law n. 91, valorization of cultural assets and activities (final vote by 29 September) (Scade on 8 October) - Drawing of law n. 884 - Ratifica Agreement Albania, Greece and Italy on the project "Trans Adriatic Pipeline" - Votes for the election of the Councils of Presidency of Administrative Justice, the Court of Auditors and Tax Justice (Votes by secret ballot with the electronic system on blocked lists) (Wednesday 18, pm.) Wednesday 18 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16-20 Thursday 19 " ant. h. 9,30-14 Thursday, September 19 pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister of Defence]] [[Tuesday, September 24 pom. h. 16-20 - Drawing of Law No. 1015 - Decree-Law No. 101, Public Administration (Final vote by October 2nd) (It falls on October 30th) - Doc. XXII, n. 10 - Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators - Drawing of law n. 580 - Demolition of abusive works Wednesday 25 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16-20 Thursday 26 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 26 September pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to bill No 1015 (Decree-Law No 101, Public Administration) should be tabled by 7 p.m. on Thursday 19 September. Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 888 and 889 (Rendiconto 2012 e Assestamento 2013) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 42' SCp 28' LN-Aut 26' Mixed 24' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of document LVII-a, n. 2 (Government's Report on the Effects on Public Finance of the Measures of Decree-Law No 102 of 31 August 2013 on IMU) (4 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 2 hours and 30', of which: PD 35' PdL 31' M5S 21' SCp 14' LN-Aut 13' Mixed 13' GAL 12' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 12' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1014 (Decree-Law No 91, valorization of cultural assets and activities) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 37' PdL 1 h. 26' M5S 59' SCp 39' LN-Aut 37' Mixed 37' GAL 33' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 33' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1015 (Decree-Law No 101, Public Administration) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 37' PdL 1 h. 26' M5S 59' SCp 39' LN-Aut 37' Mixed 37' GAL 33' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 33' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u16	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 888 and 889. The rapporteurs, Senators Santini and Ceroni, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur on draft law No 888, Senator Santini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in December 2009 Parliament adopted the new Law of Accounting and Public Finance (Law No 196 of 31 December 2009), which was subsequently supplemented and amended by Law No 39 of 7 April 2011, which largely simplified and streamlined the procedures governing public finance decisions. In this context, for the purposes of orderly financial management of the State, Law No 196 of 2009 entrusted the general accounts of the State with the task of returning to Parliament, in the form of the law, compliance with what was authorised by the Budget Act. From the procedural and technical accounting point of view, the proposed budget to current legislation for the financial year 2014, which the Senate will examine from next 15 October, will take as the basis the final findings contained in the statement, which have also been highlighted in the bill of settlement for 2013, for the purpose of determining any adjustments to the payment authorisations. The balance sheet, like the balance sheet, is divided into missions and programmes and consists of the balance sheet account, which shows the actual amount of revenue and expenditure provided for in the balance sheet of the previous year's State and the balance sheet of the assets, which shows the changes in the assets and liabilities constituting the assets of the State. A particularly important novelty for the 2012 final is represented by the dematerialization of the general statement of the State, realized, for the first year, experimentally, in agreement with the Court of Auditors, both for the account of the budget and for the account of the assets. Moreover, on the side of the strengthening of the cognitive systems it must be noted that also for 2012 it has been implemented to the forecast of the same law n.196 about the strengthening of the role of the economic surveys. The budget account is divided into missions and programmes; the missions were 34; the number of programmes confirmed in 172, and in almost all, they are to be traced back to specific interventions of each administration, being limited to only four programs shared by several Dicasteries. The 2012 report confirms the adoption of the new system of preliminary notes and the compilation of additional notes at the end of the programming cycle, which is the natural conclusion of the programming cycle and is the tool to strengthen transparency and the ability of administrations to report on their management. However, with regard to the performance indicators of the administrations, it is quite clear that they must be further strengthened and refined in order to give Parliament more convincing account of the effective capacity of the administrations to achieve the objectives assigned to them through efficient use of resources. Before examining the accounting data of the financial statements, it may be useful to recall in advance the framework of the public finance parameters within which the financial management of the year 2012 took place. In 2012, GDP at market prices amounted to EUR 1.565.9 billion, a fall of 0.8% compared to the previous year. On the other hand, the change in GDP in volume was -2.4% compared to 2011, thus significantly worsening, not only compared to 2011, but also compared to the 2010 values. As a result of the various manoeuvres approved in the last two years, the past year has also shown a new reduction in debt also compared to the previous two years, marking a value of 3% of GDP. The primary balance in relation to GDP stood at a significantly advanced value, with a positive value of 2.5% of GDP. These figures show that the manoeuvres taken to correct public accounts have been particularly heavy, with negative effects on income production, but necessary to achieve the public finance objectives agreed in the European Union and the consequent recent exit of our country from the infringement procedure opened in the year 2009. On the merits, passing on to the total data of the state budget, in relation to the final revenues, it is found that the investigations have piled to approximately 545 billion (in increase regarding 2011), while the final expenses have been attested 535 billion (also in increase regarding 2011). The net balance is positive for approximately 10.8 billion euros, after a positive balance had been recorded in 2011 as well, albeit smaller. Moving on to analyze the other balances, it is evident the ulterior improvement of the public savings, that it goes from 46,1 billion of 2011 to the 48,5 billion of 2012. Finally, the figure of the use of the financial market, as a balance arising from the comparison between the total final revenue and the total total expenditure, shows a result, for 2012, which stands at 203,5 billion euros, rising compared to 2011. In comparison with the management data, the deviation recorded, as regards the final revenues, between final forecasts and the volume established, was equal to an increase of 9 billion, while the homologue data relative to 2011 was pairs to an increase of 28,5 billion euros. The information derived from the economic analysis of final expenditure is of particular interest. In this respect, it can be observed that current expenditure generated commitments of 489 billion (up from 2011), while capital expenditure of approximately 45 billion (down from 2011), respectively 91.5 percent and only 8.5% of final expenditure. The above data, although in a general context of sharp improvement in public finance indicators, confirm the difficulty encountered in reducing and controlling current expenditure, which is often compensated by large reductions in capital expenditure, which, as is known, represent a fundamental driver for the economic growth of the country. The fall in capital expenditure is the real soreness of the 2012 statement and concerns both payments and capital transfers to companies. There are also worrying data on transfers to public authorities, and in particular to local authorities, with around 70% of public investment, which do not happen to show an unsustainable decline in this context. Turning to cash management, limiting the analysis only to balances, it is observed that in 2012 the government saving before accounting regulations was negative for approximately €19.1 billion, improving compared to 2011. As regards the residue account, in relation to the values set out on 1 January 2012, and therefore in relation to the results of the management of the previous financial years, it has an active surplus. With regard to newly formed residues, the 2012 financial year produced active residues of 97.7 billion euros (in further increase compared to 2011) and liabilities of 42 billion euros, with an active surplus of 55.7 billion euros. From the recognition of the consistency of the passive residues of new formation to 31 December 2012, on the basis of Table 17 of the report to the bill, it is observed that approximately 66 percent are to be charged to the expenses of current part, approximately 32 percent is to be traced back to the expenses in capital account. Finally, moving to asset management, in 2012 a surplus of 1,533 billion euros appears, higher than the homologue given in 2011 of 0.69 percent. Turning to the analysis of the most relevant critical issues of the 2012 financial statements, those that give rise to major concerns relate to the transparency of the representation of revenue and expenditure, the continuing phenomenon of the active and passive residues and the accounting and debit adjustments: these factors highlight problems of the reconstruction of the budget. As for the other years, the Court of Auditors also raised a very important general problem for 2012 regarding the representation of revenue and expenditure according to national accounts, as requested by the European Court of Auditors, which sometimes differs significantly from the accounts subject to equalisation. As regards the revenue side, in particular, the examination confirmed the presence of a number of inconsistent accounting elements, attributable to the category of inconsistencies proper, as amounts with negative sign for residual collections, remains to be paid and remains to be collected, as a result of investigations below collections and collections lower than payments, or anomalies within the accounts, such as the emergence for a number of balance sheet items of non-compliances or re-notifications, i.e. passive or active surpluses. In detail, the Court of Auditors noted the existence of budgetary items, as set out in the annexes to the Decision, for which there were significant discrepancies in their amounts compared to those resulting from the accounts of the administrations, and, with regard to the accounting in the balance sheet of the year, chapters for which the amounts of the final active residues recorded in the accounts are different from the amounts which would be obtained by subtracting from the initial residues the payments made in the year into residual accounts and adding the residues within the scope of the financial year. On the expenditure side, the Court of Auditors has again censured the ancient and well-known problem of surplus expenditure on final estimates of competence, on the size of the waste and on definitive cash permits, which can be linked to discrepancies in payments arranged through fixed expenditure roles, as well as payments of government debt securities, as well as expenditure made in the absence of budget appropriations, recorded in the balance sheet as surpluses, in chapters of the Ministries of Economy and Finance, economic development, university education and research, infrastructure. In detail, the Court of Auditors noted the presence of discrasies concerning the existence of surplus expenditure on the final estimates of competence, the size of the residues and the definitive cash permits. Also for 2012 there has been no lack of a series of chapters of which the certification of the final results of the account of the residues has not been produced, because at the time of the approval of the report have not been approved by the Court of Auditors the relative decrees of assessment. On the question of active residues and residues, the Court continues to insist. At the basis of the continuing anomaly of the phenomenon of passive residues, while emphasizing improvements over the previous year, there are multiple and diversified causes: the measures of containment of expenditure not always respected, often oriented to the slippage of payments; the poor quality of the legislation, not always supported by specific feasibility projects; the complex and defatigant procedures in some areas of intervention, the often obsolete accounting schemes; the inconsistent management behaviour. As regards active residues, the Court points out the discrepancies between the accounting data and the revenue accounts of administrations and inconsistencies within the accounts. Anomalies, those relating to active and passive residues, which on the whole put into crisis the annual balance sheet and the same representativeness of the statement. On this point, it is reiterated that there is a need to make a clear improvement in the methods of accounting for residues in order to avoid any hypothesis of fictitious adjustment of the public accounts. It is known that the abnormal trend of active and passive residues could result in a significant surplus resulting from the differentiated trend of those residues which could (or could) contribute to a significant extent to the improvement of the balances. The Court of Auditors also raises concerns about the transparency of the public budget, which has some implications for the accounting of items. In this respect, for example, the Court noted that there was still extra-tributary revenue classified as certain but delayed revenue of 100%, despite the small degree of achievement, as well as the existence of budgetary posts for which less revenue was found than the initial and final budget forecasts. Law No 196 of 2009 makes it possible to reduce the impact of such critical issues. The increased transparency and analyticality of the budgetary results should, in fact, allow the verification of the correctness of the management and the effective respect of the authorisations arranged with the budget estimate. To this end, it is desirable that, starting next year, the statement should become a valid tool of knowledge and support for the evaluations of Parliament and the Court of Auditors on the allocation of resources to the sum of the functions carried out by public intervention and the actual achievement of the objectives assigned to each administration. However, for this to happen, we need a strong strengthening of the control action carried out by Parliament and, above all, by the Permanent Commissions. The ability to closely monitor the financial implementation of missions and programmes will need to be developed by involving the expenditure managers of the individual ministries. This activity cannot be limited to the Budget Commissions and should benefit from the exercise of the delegation provided for in Article 40 of Law No 196 of 2009, on the revision of the structure of the budget, which will have to intervene on a articulation of the missions and programmes in many aspects inadequate and poorly representative of the actual lines of the administrative actions. That is our wish. In conclusion, given the importance of the 2012 report also in relation to the next budgetary session, it is hoped that the measure will be approved in our examination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur on draft law No 889, Senator Ceroni.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the 2013 bill of settlement first shows a worsening of the budget balances in terms of competence compared to the initial forecasts of the 2013 budget law. The net balance to be financed fell from - 6,185 million to - 31,065 million, with a deterioration of 24,881 million, amounting to about 400 percent compared to the size of the same aggregate indicated by the fiscal law; this amount derives from the sum of a worsening of 15.029 million, due to changes by administrative act, mainly attributable to the increase in expenditure of 16,586 million. In particular, it should be recalled that the institution, which was established by Decree-Law No 35 of 2013, of the fund aimed at ensuring liquidity for the payments of public administration debts, and a deterioration of 9,851 million resulting from the proposals of the adjustment itself, attributable to the lower final revenue, amounting to 12,356 million, resulting from a sharp decrease in tax revenue (for 14,521 million) only partially offset by the increase in extra-tributary revenue (for 2,088 million) and the sale and depreciation of assets, amounting to 77 million. As far as tax revenue is concerned, I would like to stress the reduction in VAT revenue by EUR 10.548 million, despite the increase of a percentage point from 20% to 21%, of excise duty on energy products by an amount of EUR 4.257 million, and the stamp by EUR 2.011 million, while, on the contrary, IRPEF, IRES and substitute tax forecasts show an increase of EUR 2,803 million, EUR 1.599 million and EUR 1,190 million respectively. With regard to the above-mentioned revenue developments, I noted in the Budget Committee that IRPEF revenue is generally positively correlated with employment and GDP levels, IRES revenue with GDP, and VAT revenue with the dynamics of household consumption and expenditure, as well as with imports, thus requesting updates of economic indicators to the Government, since the main components of domestic demand are expected to fall sharply compared to 2012. The Government reported in this regard that, on the basis of the monitoring of revenue developments in the first seven months of the year, overall the tax revenues entered into the State budget, projected on an annual basis, are substantially in line with those contained in the balance sheet, on the basis of some considerations that synthesize. Firstly, revenue from the first seven months of 2013 is expected to grow by 1.2% compared to the same period of the previous year, i.e. at a rate above the rate of growth of tax revenues settled for 2013 compared to the 2012 balance sheet. IRPEF revenue, although related to GDP and employment, shows a growth of 1.1 percent throughout July, mainly attributable to increases in withholding tax on public sector employees' income due to the effects of tax balances and self-liquidation payments. These increases largely offset the slight fall in withholding tax on private sector employees' incomes (-0.5 per cent) and the sharpest fall in the income of self-employed workers (-6.0 per cent). As far as IRES is concerned, on the contrary, it showed a very significant growth in 2013 compared to the previous year of 12.8%, mainly due to substantial IRES payments made by large banking and insurance taxpayers. Among other direct taxes, the increase in the first seven months of the year of the various substitute taxes contributes to the good performance of revenue. Finally, as far as VAT revenue is concerned, it has shown - says the Government - a slowdown in the negative trend recorded at the beginning of the year. With regard to final expenditure, changes between forecast and initial forecasts increased by 14,082 million (in terms of competence), largely attributable to capital expenditure. Current expenditure, on the other hand, rose slightly (0,24 per cent, or 954 million) net of interest. For the benefits of the inventory, I think it would be useful to remember that at the end of the year interest expenditure on the government's debt will amount to 89.162 million (500 million less than forecast). Moving on to the adjustment of the forecasts in terms of cash, it is noted that these also determine, in 2013, a worsening of the balances. The worsening of the net balance to be financed is 29,187 million euros (i.e. from 73,691 million of initial forecasts to 102,878 million euros); that of public savings of 15,512 million euros (from 28,075 million to 43,587 million). The primary balance deteriorated by €29,582 million, changing in sign (compared with an initial surplus forecast of €15,970 million, there was a forecast of deficit for a deficit of less than €13,612 million), while the use of the market finally deteriorated by €24,546 million (from € 284,489 million to € 309,035 million). For reasons of time, I should like to leave out the considerations on the remaining accounts and give the relevant part of the report. I would just point out that, compared to the previous two years, there is a containment due to regulatory interventions carried out with Decree-Law no. 98 of 2011, 138 of 2011 and 95 of 2012. I would like to explain Article 2 of the measure in question. It should first be noted that it contains some changes to the 2013 Budget Act. In particular, paragraph 1 provides for the increase of the authorized amount of issue of public bonds, from 24 (as established by Article 2 (3) of the aforementioned budget law) to 80 billion euros. In this regard, the Government has pointed out that this increase in net issues from 24 billion to 80 billion is necessary to ensure the liquidity necessary to cover the greater needs of the State, linked to the payment of the 20 billion following the application of Decree-Law No 35 of 2013, which will be the subject of a specific amendment that even previews a further increase of the limit of the net emissions to 98 billion. The proposed increase will also make it possible to offset possible intra-monthly shifts between receipts and payments and to deal with the first months of 2014 with a sufficient liquidity reserve, without putting under pressure the issues at the beginning of the year, also in view of the expected acceleration of payments of commercial debts of the public administration in the first part of 2014 (an increase in debt payments, including current ones, is expected to be around 7 billion). Paragraph 2 of Article 2 states that, in paragraph 7 of Article 2 of the 2013 Budget Law, the amount of 1,900 million is replaced by the amount of 2,000 million. This increase relates to the Fund for the reassignment of the residual liabilities of capital expenditure eliminated in previous years by administrative pertinence. Article 3 of the measure in question adds to article 8 of the 2013 budget law paragraph 12-a which, in order to allow the payment in the following year of the sums remaining to be paid at the end of each financial year as ancillary powers, extends to the Arm of the Carabinieri the provisions referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 2 of the decree of the Minister of Economy and Finance 1 December 2010 according to which the aforementioned sums are paid, by the administrations concerned, on the appropriate chapter of the estimates of the entry of the State budget, established for each individual administration. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General, in conclusion, the accounting data for the adjustment show a great deal of criticality in the management of the budget. First of all, this is the already mentioned sharp deterioration in budgetary balances in terms of competence, with the net balance to be financed that worsens by about 400 percent, also due to the reduction in VAT revenues by more than 10 billion euros. We cannot hide that the fiscal correction manoeuvres for 2012 have allowed the improvement of some balances (but only some and to a lesser extent than might have been expected), but they have also generated depressive effects on the economy, as evidenced by the decline in tax revenues already in difficulty and in severe recession. The figures in the budget show a very worrying socio-economic situation: rising unemployment, the impoverishment of more and more population groups, the closure of small and medium-sized enterprises and the lack of development. Nor do the future prospects seem better when it is considered that, according to the most up-to-date forecasts, reported in the final considerations of the Governor of the Bank of Italy at the shareholders' meeting of 31 May 2013, this year will also close with a sharp decline in production activity and employment. Added to these developments is the even more worrying development of public debt, which has largely exceeded the threshold of EUR 2,050 billion and is close to EUR 2,100 billion: other than budget balance provided in the Constitution! Moreover, as mentioned above, the Government is preparing to propose an amendment that increases the maximum authorized amount of issuance of public bonds, from 24 billion euros to 98 billion euros. Since its inauguration, the Government has promised to launch an incisive action of spending review but, to date, apart from the rule that it plans to appoint an ad hoc commissioner, we have not yet found any effect. In the meantime, there are measures of greater expenditure covered by higher hypothetical revenues: the last example is Decree-Law No.91, the so-called value-culture decree, which in Article 14 increases the measure of excise duties on oils and alcohol. Further expenses are announced in the decree-law on the subject of public education approved yesterday by the Government and additional expenses are contained in Decree-Law No 101 of 31 August 2013, with urgent provisions for the pursuit of objectives of rationalization on public administrations, with sanatories of 100,000-150,000 precarious. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a matter of public finance management on which we cannot fail to have reservations both as citizens and as economic operators and as political leaders. We need reflection and, if that is not enough, we need to look for a change of course. I would like to thank the Senate Budget Service, whose data and considerations contained in the valuable documentation have been fundamental, and the Government and Commissioners for their contribution to the discussion. [[Applause from Senators Santini and Bondi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u19	The Presidency authorizes you to supplement the report, as you requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the public budget adjustment measure, today in this House, is an important step in the budgetary cycle which examines the state of our public finances in the course of the year compared to the budget forecasts adopted last December 2012; a measure which takes on the figures for the revenue and expenditure of the first half of 2012 to adjust the budget. This circumstance comes to remind all of us and, through us (with the help of the media), to Italian citizens that Italy does not have an economy in balance: it has not solved all its problems and above all has not the shoulders wide enough to bear any load, even if important partners of the majority have provided such loads in their electoral program. Italy can start again. This government has taken the right path, but the path hides obstacles around every corner, especially if we do not operate in a context of truth and if we are not honest with ourselves. They are, in fact, twenty years of partial truths or true lies that have brought us to this point and not a cynical and cheating destiny. They have been long years of commitments that could not be maintained or had to be made, years of government choices often far from reasonable assessments on the state of health and the prospects of growth of the country. These choices have brought the youth unemployment rate to 39.7%, the current data on female unemployment, school dispersal and the very low number of graduates: data from a country broken across North to South. The measure under consideration, while highlighting significantly better data than those of last year and previous years, reminds us therefore that the country is not able to guarantee the maintenance of impossible promises: this is confirmed by the 10 billion euro less on VAT, the 4 billion euro less on excise duties and also the 2 billion euro less on the stamps planned this year: contractions that are worth as much as a maneuver. This is also demonstrated by the spread trend, which in these hours sees the recovery of Spain over Italy after almost two years. Of course, on the other hand, the data on the slowdown in the decline in GDP and the possibility that the reduction in this fall may correspond, next year, to a first rebound and a recovery in growth, but we would be wrong to think that with the recovery and our ability to engage it our trust and international credibility are achieved and acquired once and for all. For this reason, our country cannot afford politics from electoral promises, nor to disperse the credibility of the last two years that has led to the exit from the infringement procedure. An objective that has cost my party in terms of consensus but whose results are allowing us the first expansive policies that have been sustainable for many years. In these two years, starting from the end of 2011, we have asked Italian citizens and businesses to endure maneuvers never seen before; the entire country has had to face enormous sacrifices to maintain the commitments made by the previous government to achieve the structural balance of the budget. We have often also discussed the commitments made, asking us if they were excessively burdensome, with the paradox that often those who criticized them were also part of the government that had assumed them. We want to confirm a positive assessment of the result achieved, but we want to give credit to those who have sacrificed most to obtain it: businesses and citizens. It is the work done in those months that has led to the forecast of a deficit-GDP ratio of 2.4% for 2013 and to the exit from the infringement procedure. After many years, concrete and sustainable prospects for expansionary policies have been opened up. The first choice of this government was to confirm as commitments some choices that had been hypothesized to promote economic recovery already before the February general elections. In this context, the decree-law for the payment of debts due by the public administration (decree-law 8 April 2013, n. 35) that unlocks the first 40 billion euros (provoking an additional deficit of 0.5 points that brings the deficit-GDP ratio to 2.9) and then another 10 billion to restore to the State reliability and credibility and, together, give impetus to the entrepreneurial system and liquidity to the financial system. That on the payment of debts of the public administration is the first, in terms of time and size, between the expansionary policies: I recall that for the maintenance of ecobonus and the employment measures both those for young people, and those for the safeguarding of the social and entrepreneurial fabric allowed by the refinancing of the integration fund by way of derogation. Expansive measures and policies are also those most recently adopted on culture and then on school, university and research, these days under examination of the Chambers. All these measures have been made possible through strict financial policies which respect the shared European standards. Now we're at a crossroads. It is not so much a matter of choosing between stability or instability because inadequate policies, although in a context of stability, will not produce the country's ability to engage the recovery; instead it is a matter of choosing whether to confirm the path that has allowed us to fall within the parameters and to consider that as the indispensable lighthouse that allows expansive policies, or to think that the recovery is acquired once and for all and returns to a season of easy promises with creative and unlikely financial covers. Our example as that of other countries shows that these policies are like lies, they have short legs, and that is why they make little progress. I say this because there are those who think they are constantly raising the bar to the Government, believing that the economic policies of the Letta executive can be those of the electoral program of one or the other party, adding the needs and promises rather than making choices. On this front the country cannot afford to go back; stability is not achieved once for all and the risk of frustrating the efforts made by Italians in 2011 and 2012 is very present. Therefore, there are no shortcuts, but a virtuous and transparent process, in which stability and above all consistency and seriousness count. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Santini and Marino Luigi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u21	Senator Olivero is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u22	Madam President, honourable representative of the Government, my fellow senators, said Schumpeter at the beginning of the 20th century, that the state budget is the mirror of all the political and social problems of a nation. It is through the unattractive tables of the budget that the economic policy pursued by the State is exercised; from the budget we get what are the policies of stabilization, growth, redistribution and redeployment of resources. The accounting and the adjustment are an extension of the budget; they allow the dynamic management of the budget following changes in the economic scenario and new regulatory acts. From this point of view, the debate on accountability and settlement should be revitalized, should emerge from the restricted circle of experts and become a public debate, open to all citizens. This would certainly improve relations between politics and citizenship. Even today, however, reporting and settling are difficult to understand and their language is often difficult. Although the purpose of the report is to assess whether the management of the financial year concluded at 31 December has been financially correct, whether the objectives have been achieved and the resources intended for the purpose have been sufficient, a reading of Act No 888 does not easily allow such assessments: for example, it is not possible to know what the effects of the spending review have been, such as the effectiveness of policies for the Ministries, such as inefficiencies. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, we have a desperate need for a better planning of public policy and also for the Senate and the House to be truly responsible for the acts of direction we take. Moreover, Article 36 of the Law of Accounting (Law No 196 of 2009) states that the general statement of the State is made up of two parts: the balance sheet account, which exposes the actual amount of revenue and expenditure in the State budget compared to the forecasts approved by Parliament; the balance sheet, which shows the changes in the size of the assets and liabilities constituting the assets of the State. Yet, from the presented statement, this second aspect related to the assets is not sufficiently clear: from the statement it is not possible to know what the assessment of the assets of the State is, despite one of the objectives of the new law of accounting (the aforementioned law n. 196 of 2009) has been precisely to simplify the budget and make clearer the communication towards the citizens. We must therefore continue to work hard to improve the clarity of the content and communication of these instruments. It is not a given accessory, but a strategic element, if we also want to moralize our own accounts. I will now quickly highlight some of the issues related to the draft legislation in question, as I am particularly interested in the discussion in the 6th Permanent Commission, of which I am a member. I am referring to the marked decrease in VAT revenue in 2013 and the negative trend in revenue related to games. Compared to the first question, I stress that the sharp decline in VAT revenues, as well as other consumption taxes, stems from the fact that in 2013 the reduction in the level of domestic consumption reached its most acute stage; even today we have had further evidence of the situation of serious problem in this regard. On the other hand, there was a positive trend for exports. A further factor affecting VAT revenue was the late payment of tax by companies affected by a liquidity crisis. In this respect, it is important to stress that the Government, as assured in the Commission, carries out a careful study on the measurement of the macroeconomic impact on consumption of measures to increase the VAT levy, including to assess the relationship between consumption, consumer expectations and increase in rates. As well as it is important that as soon as possible the total payment of the debts of the public administration against the enterprises is made so that the problem of liquidity that is found - ahinoi! - in the item 'lack of revenue' may in some way be reduced. As regards the decline in revenue in the gaming sector, it seems that this results from an increase in poverty levels, bearing in mind that a greater propensity to play occurs precisely within the categories with medium-low income. Also on the basis of the debate held last week in the Senate on the effects of gambling (more than gambling, as has been mentioned), it is important that the government engages in the fight against illegal and illegal gambling, seeking forms of financing that are of help to citizens and not to their detriment. It is certainly not good for the state's accounts for this decrease in revenue, but I believe that the state's accounts should not predict the growth of this item again in the future. A few more brief comments on the accounts. The final estimates of expenditure have increased compared with the initial estimates by 3%. The increase covered categories: current transfers to general government, intermediate consumption, current transfers to enterprises and income from employees. The increase in capital expenditure forecasts is mainly due to the subscription to the capital of the European Stability Mechanism. As regards balances, public savings, i.e. the balance between current, tax and extra-tributary revenue, and current expenditure, showed an improvement. This is certainly an important point to stress. Compared to the past year there is a clear change of trend, moving from a negative value of 606 million euros in loss to the positive value recorded in 2012 (plus 4,371 percent). However, the proposed changes with the adjustment make a forecast of €24,346 million, worse than the 2013 budget forecasts. Once again, the crisis continues beyond the forecast; we have all been able to see how the figure for the third quarter of this year is heavily affecting, and that, ladies and gentlemen, once again calls us to the sense of responsibility of this hour. Even the primary surplus is 17,505 million higher than that of 2011. Looking at the data from the economic accounts of the administrations, the examination of the data reveals the weight of interest on debt (this is the last given that I provide you), equal to 18% of the overall total, which is slightly lower than the own costs (personal, goods and services) of all central administrations, in turn equal to 20% of the overall total. This says - but I hope everyone knows this - that intervening on debt is still one of the main priorities today, one of the great open issues of our country and our budget. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you some considerations concerning the parts of the MIUR's competence in the framework of the draft laws on the general accounts of the State Administration 2012 and the budgetary adjustment for 2013. First of all, I would like to stress, as the first speaker in general debate has done, that the law approving the accounts represents a formal approval by this Parliament of the acts of management carried out in the financial year. It is not, therefore, a mere symbolic act: it is an awareness, a very important approval. It is good, therefore, that before analyzing these acts and expressing a vote, a careful reflection is made on what these acts represent. As far as the MIUR is concerned, therefore, at first sight nothing scandalous when it is stated in the 2012 report that the appropriations of competence amounted to €53.1 billion and €54.2 billion are the authorisations of expenditure. This result, however, came - I remember - after the years of containment of spending, which originated in the notorious article 64 of the Gelmini law. It is very interesting to point out to this House, to all of you, some considerations which the Court of Auditors makes in this regard, and which are present in the report which the Court has presented together with the draft laws in question. Well, this report states that the financial analysis of the MIUR budget has shown, on the expenditure side, a substantial reduction in the resources allocated. Simple words, but what is hidden behind them? There are reductions in the full time in compulsory schooling, the impossibility of carrying out laboratory activities in presence, the reduction of services to all, in particular to disabled people and students of foreign origin, the reduction of schedules, disciplines, trials in high schools, the lack of funds for the ordinary functioning of schools for any educational project. The cuts mentioned for the three-year period 2009-2011 are 7,8 billion euros and 130,000 places have been lost in the staff of the school; only for the ATA staff the cuts constitute 35 percent of the staff between 2008 and 2013, and it is worth noting that all this has happened while the students increase. In the first year of cuts (school year 2009-2010) pupils increased by 40,000, but 36,000 less teachers were awarded. The report of the Court of Auditors, passing on to the examination of the policies declined in the missions and programs entrusted to the Ministry, also highlights, in the context of the mission "School education" - we are talking about the mission that should represent the first priority for a country that aims at the knowledge society [[Applause from the M5S Group]] - a non-complete achievement of the objectives of staff reduction defined in the programmatic plan referred to in Law No 133 of 2008 (so-called Gelmini Act). This lack of complete implementation is attributable, in particular, to the delay in the reorganization of the school network, following two judgments of the same Constitutional Court, No 200 of 2009 and No 147 of 2012, as well as to the effects resulting from the famous judgment No 80 of 2010 of the same Court in the matter of support posts. The report then goes on: 'Despite these difficulties,' - gentlemen, take good care of the words: these judgments that go against the cuts are defined as 'difficulties' - 'the development of the main determinants of the system confirms the validity of the rationalization measures put in place in implementation of the 'infamous', I say - 'Article 64 of Law No 133 of 2008'. But, gentlemen, do you think these words are worthy of a civilized country? We are saying that we have broken down the school but that we have not done enough; we are complaining about judgments of the Constitutional Court that have tried to prove (and have demonstrated, because the related appeals have been won) that these reorganisations and these cuts are illegitimate. Let's go into detail. Judgment No. 200 of 2009, for example, stated the constitutional illegitimacy of certain points of Article 64 of the Gelmini Act, which states that the State, by means of government regulations, provides for the definition of the scale of the school network, as well as for particular measures in the case of the closure or amalgamation of schools. Well, this prediction is unconstitutional, because it goes against Article 117 of the Constitution. The other judgment of the Constitutional Court that constitutes a difficulty is No 147 of 2012, which declared the illegality of another article of a law of Minister Gelmini that provided for the amalgamation of the school of children and primary school in the first grade secondary school, aggregated in institutions comprising at least 1,000 pupils. This prediction is also unconstitutional. This too has been done. The Constitutional Court, accepting all these reasons for the actions brought by the Regions, establishes a clear line of demarcation between the competences of the State and those of the Regions. It should therefore be stressed that these difficulties, marked by the Court of Auditors, are not simply due to delays, but to the fact that the measures contained in the Gelmini Act are illegitimate and unconstitutional. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not to mention the 2010 ruling No 80 on support posts, which is even more serious, because it overturns the situation, which was completely inappropriate and hallucinating, which had come to be created following the Gelmini reform, in which the resources for support were decided centrally and then distributed to the regions without taking into account the specific needs of disabled pupils. The sentence instead reaffirms the centrality of the disabled pupil and allows the assignments even in derogation from the limits imposed by the Minister: a clear expression of civilization, which restores the primacy of the method of support of the Italian public school in comparison to that of other European countries. And these are the difficulties we have encountered in making school cuts? I ask myself and ask you: does this seem like a civil country speech to you? Madam President, we will soon, first in the Commission and then in the House, analyse the decree-law on school. Well, we, as 5 Star Movement, will examine it with a constructive spirit, as we have always done; but I would like to emphasize that the model of school that comes out of this account of the State 2012 and from the 2013 settlement has not only mortified the dignity of the pupils, teachers and ATA staff, who work with dedication, ensuring a level that would not be possible with the resources assigned, but is also illegitimate and unconstitutional. I therefore ask all Members present to take this into account when analysing these very important decrees in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Favero. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u25	Senator Del Barba is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the occasion of the debate on the 2012 accounts and the 2013 balance sheet is for all of us a fundamental step in order to critically review the very engine of our economy and the course that we are giving to the path of recovery and recovery, to verify the goodness and incisiveness of our strategic choices, as well as to direct even our assessments on governments, their quality and their duration. Perhaps, and I say this with deep regret, my incipit is totally denied by the chronicles of these days that little or nothing reports of what we are actually doing here. It is the tired, stale rite of our country: the habit of not going into the concreteness of the choices and above all in their economic quantification, letting this become the matter of few in the everyday life that decides, and of all in the comments that cut off superficially. It is likely that this will also be helped by the "hosticity" with which we deal with the matter, as my colleague Olivero pointed out very well earlier. And yet we would really have many valid reasons to stop, even for weeks, to work on these numbers. 2012 was a crucial year, in some ways horrible, for some others still turning. Forced to choose between austerity and growth, at least in the immediate future, between the fear of dragging, with additional constraints, the crisis within a depressive vortex and the awareness that the lacked reforms of the past made, as they still make, the public machine practically useless in order to act as a tow, at a time when it would have been and would be needed. These are the suffered choices that must be known and traced within the final and always this is the sign and the tendency that must be critically assessed in composing the adjustment for 2013. It is these days, of the last few weeks, the ever more insistent and confirmed forecast of a slowdown of the crisis also for our country and of a return to a positive soil, at least for consumption. Yet we have paid and are paying a very high price to the recession, more than the other major European countries. In this, within this delay, this heaviness, this drift, strong is the negative weight of our public machine which, more than any other European system, aggravates an already weak real economy with a taxation that has perhaps passed every level of guard, without providing, through public spending, services that are comparable to the size of this sacrifice. Even 2012 saw us inside this grip, the grip of a tax pressure still impossible to drop, indeed increasing, and of a public expenditure not affected by the review we need. No one escapes that this dangerous stalemate, which concerns the public budget with obvious and heavy reflections and conditionings on the private sector, is made particularly blocked and static by the mass of debt and interest on debt, which virtually nullify the virtuosity of a positive primary surplus, which was also reached last year. However, with the regret expressed so far on the lack of correspondence in terms of incisiveness compared to what the country would have needed, the unequivocal signs of good trend, such as, for example, the improvement of the balance on current part expenditure, which in 2012 continued to be negative, but of "only" 6 billion euros, compared to the more than 23 billion of the previous year. Alongside this positive figure, however, we must record the collapse of investment in our country. Moreover, this effort is immediately offset, in negative, by the data on interest payable (we all remember the real sufferings related to the trend of the spread BTP-BUND), which recorded an increase year on year of 10.4%. Let us reflect carefully on this aspect, on how much it can affect and affect, in our public accounts, the credibility and solvency of the system, in fact constituting a tax, anything but hidden and completely unproductive. Thinking of the efforts made at every level of the state, which are rather brutalized within the numbers of this summary, one can trace elements of satisfaction for having neutralized possible negative and destructive effects of a financial storm that has hit us. There must also be new concerns, however, which lead to a more vigorous and systematic approach to the revision of expenditure and the reduction of debt, two blades that are dangerously approaching as a scissors placed on our future. This summary, perhaps syncopated with respect to our needs, lacks elements that bring out enthusiasm both for those who want to hope for a generous public hand in investments, that for those who require a relief in withdrawals, has within themselves the value of a reversal of trend, or rather, of a continuous reversal of trend, considered even the years immediately preceding, with the undeniable value of having brought us out of the infringement procedure and of having opened those spaces that have allowed us to free resources (I think of the unblocking-credits and other interventions remembered a little ago), at a time that proved crucial to prevent a vertical fall and to allow us to look at the final of the year with greater serenity. We can well say, and we are convinced, that we have avoided the worst, that we have secured public finances. But we are only at the beginning of our work: this virtuosity is worth nothing until it is reflected in effective improvement for our citizens. We do not make the mistakes of the past again. Let us not distract ourselves and persevere in the work of recovery, change and recovery of the economy. We give life to extraordinary actions that will allow us to break the chains that we are all aware of and put the State and our institutions in a position to contribute to the citizen's involvement, to support and promote it as it should be. Madam President, let us continue and strengthen this work of rehabilitation and revitalization which we welcome. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Ceroni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vacciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u28	Madam President, I take advantage of this brief speech to bring back to this House the reflection that I have already shared with my colleagues in the Finance Committee on the budgetary adjustment measure. We read in the introductory report that one of the reasons that made this adjustment necessary was the lower tax revenue, with reference in particular to indirect taxes, which can be justified by the obvious criticalities of the macroeconomic framework. Within the latter, a significant burden is the reduction in VAT revenue, estimated at around EUR 10 billion. The paradox is already evident: in the face of an increase in the VAT rate by one percentage point, the total revenue decreases, a logical consequence of an internal market in great suffering, a situation which unfortunately is confirmed also in the economic data of the first months of 2013. At the meeting of the Commission, Mr Casero informed us that the correlation between the increase in tax and the decrease in domestic demand is being studied, stating, however, that the change in the overall economic picture, in any of its elements, does not mean that this correlation remains the same. However, when assessing the current situation, there is no evidence of an immediate recovery in domestic demand, while a further increase in the ordinary VAT rate is expected. It will therefore be trivial, but I would not consider the psychological aspect or the fear of Italian citizens for the future (although it is obvious) which increases the propensity to save, even in the face of greater disposable income. Rather, I would merely consider the consumer: if it costs more I buy less or maybe I do not buy at all. A perverse spiral is created, so not only does every increase in taxation not correspond to a greater availability of funds for the treasury, but also to a reduction in consumption, with fatal consequences on the productive fabric. Unless, of course, someone seriously thinks that this can remain indefinitely on export only. I call on the Government to read this situation as yet another wake-up call and to make a serious and profound reflection on the desirability and usefulness of further increasing the ordinary rate of value added tax. Maybe it is true that there is no direct link, maybe it is true that it is only a psychological issue, but, in the light of the news that daily reports us the thousand difficulties that many Italian families face simply to survive, really are you willing to add another card to a castle already so shaky? Under the castle - let us always remember - there are Italian citizens and in doubt it would be good not to risk. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u29	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u30	Madam President, senators and senators, the bill of settlement is an important act because, beyond the fulfilment of Article 33 of Law No 196 of 2009 on accounting and public finance, it is an opportunity in the course of the year to make a review, not only on the necessary budgetary balances, but also on the progress of the objectives that Government and Parliament want to achieve in 2013. My speech will cover the procedural and temporal aspects of the bill, the data on the adjustment and, ultimately, the verification of the achievement of the objectives. Few jokes on procedural and temporal aspects, not only of our settling, but also of the other acts that local authorities must carry out. Article 33 of the Act of Accounting provides that by June of each year the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance present to Parliament a draft law for the adjustment of budget forecasts. The draft law is the instrument for updating budget appropriations in the middle of the year. Respect for times is not only form, but also substance. If action is needed to change something, if we are not achieving the objectives, it is good not to do so at the end of the year, but in the middle of the year, as the legislation rightly provides. But this is an Italian habit: Decree-Law No 102 of 31 August extends to 30 November the deadline for local authorities to approve the forecast budget for 2013 and for the approval of the regulations and tariffs of TARES. As if that were not enough, they are referred to further measures both the elimination of the IMU (date of December), and the introduction from 2014 of the service tax. The method goes in stark contradiction with the principles of sound programming. Continuing with interim management until 30 November means putting budgetary balances at risk, especially in the current part. It still takes weeks for the exact quantification of state coverage. Can we still call a forecast balance sheet a document approved with the adjustment and which is therefore no longer editable? He basically becomes a pre-consunt. It is true that the government has experienced great difficulties these months, but I really hope that next year we can respect the rights of the self-government and allow them to make budgets in due time. Finally, I would like to make my own suggestion from the Senate Budget Service, which in dossier No. 6 states: The General Accounting of the State (RGS) communicates on the web page of its website dedicated to Open date that the data relating to the expense side of the settlement law will be released in format elaborated within one month of the approval of the law itself. In this regard, it should be considered whether such a time-frame should be revised so that it can be issued within a reasonable period of time after its submission to Parliament, as is already the case with the draft budget law (the data of which are published within 15 days of its submission). I add a few comments on the adjustment data. Compared to the initial forecasts of the budget law, the data contained in the draft law, expressed in terms of competence and considered net of debit, accounting and VAT refunds, show a worsening of the balance sheet balances. The net balance to be financed shows a negative change of about 25 billion, of which 15 in relation to administrative acts and 10 deriving from the proposals of the adjustment itself. As a result, against the initial negative forecast of the 2013 budget law (-6 billion), the net balance to be financed, in the forecast, has a negative value of 31 billion. The increase in expenditure on administrative acts is largely due to the establishment of the fund to ensure liquidity for local government payments. It is therefore a negative fact, but we must consider it the right, correct consequence of an extremely positive measure for our economy. The proposals for the adjustment of the final revenue incurred a sharp decrease in tax revenue of about 14.5 billion (10.5 billion from VAT, 4.2 billion from the excise duty on energy products and the remainder from the stamp), only partially offset by the increase in extra-tributary revenue. On the contrary, IRPEF, IRES and substitute tax forecasts show an increase of 2.8, 1.6 and 1.2 billion respectively. With regard to revenue developments, IRPEF revenue is generally positively correlated with the level of employment and gross domestic product, IRES revenue with the same GDP and VAT revenue with the dynamics of household consumption and expenditure, as well as imports. That means we have some contradictory signals. A further comment on Article 2 of this draft law, in which it is recalled that the settlement law generally redefines the limit on the issue of securities in order to take account of changes in the objectives of needs which have occurred or are foreseen during the financial year. It is noted that, compared with the request of 80 billion as a limit, a proposal has arrived, through an amendment which was examined at the last session of the Budget Commission, to raise this limit from 80 billion to 98 billion. In this way it will be possible to ensure greater state needs on the liquidity fund of 7.2 billion, increased in order to allow local authorities a greater possibility of paying the debts of the public administration. This is also a negative reading which, however, covers an extremely positive intervention for our economy. Finally, I deal with the last aspect. The adjustment should be an opportunity to carry out a verification of the achievement of the objectives. The report to Parliament presented by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance illustrates some estimated impacts on the measures included in Decree-Law No 102 of 31 August 2013, and carries out a first examination of the economic situation in view of the forthcoming submission of the Update Note to the 2013 Economy and Finance Document, but refers to the quarterly accounting ISTAT data, published today on the same site as ISTAT. These data are not particularly exciting. The data for the second quarter of 2013 tell us that GDP decreased by 0.3% compared to the previous quarter and by 2.1% compared to the second quarter of 2012, worse than the estimates of 6 August. The main aggregates of domestic demand (national final consumption and gross fixed capital formation) both decreased by 0.3%. Exports (only positive data) have increased by 1.2%, but added value has seen negative cyclical changes of 2.2% in agriculture, 0.9% in the construction sector, 0.3% in services and 0.1% in industry. So, I repeat, the data is not particularly positive. Returning to President Letta's report, it is argued that all the new measures in August will have a favourable impact on the economy and will leave unchanged the net debt of public administrations, reflecting only on financial needs and debt. The latest available information seems to confirm the assumption made by the DEF of a recovery in economic activity in the second part of the year. Already for some months the first signs of a progressive stabilisation of the economic cycle have been manifested, but the President himself highlights the criticalities on the annual growth forecasts contained in the DEF that will have to be revised downwards. Finally, I recall that the government's political commitments are those necessary to complete the redesign of real estate taxation and will still be the subject of subsequent measures. The painting is not rosy. Instability punishes us; Spain reaches us on spread levels these days. We must devote all our strength and our commitment to action to avoid the death of the very faint positive signals coming from the economy and the positive effects of the manoeuvres that we have been having so hard in recent months. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fravezzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u31	Senator Uras, who will also present the G102 agenda during his speech, is a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u32	Madam President, I have decided not to talk about numbers, which have been abundantly provided in previous speeches and which we all know. I therefore throw it a little in politics because I think it is appropriate to do so, in these hours in a particular way, in order to support a thesis. Look, we have begun this legislature by noting that it is impossible to form a government homogeneous with respect to the expectations of the deployment, so to speak, winning, or rather not losing. We have called for the primary elections where we have put first-class candidates on the list. There was a labor that involved everyone. In the end we made an emergency government to solve the extraordinary problems of our economy, to settle public finance, to contain debt and to allow our economic system to resume to grow and, therefore, to resolve also the social problems, those of unemployment and growing poverty. The result of this affair, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are today, on the eve of almost certain crises, with the accounts recorded in the accounts of the State, but also and above all in the budgetary settlement measure, which tells us - I am not saying this, but you have said that you are the rapporteurs - of a situation that is not worrying, but alarming, in which not even one of the accounts we have done is right. We have not reduced the debt that, on the other hand, has grown, and we have not relaunched the economy (this figure comes to us, for example, from VAT revenues) and there has been a sharp decline in consumption. Beware that we, these days, are discussing the increase of one point to act on indirect tax exactly as we have done on direct tax. IRPEF grows with rising unemployment. We are then squeezing those few lemons that still have a little juice until they have no more. This is a country in decline; it is desperate. It is a country that renounces to have a perspective because it continues to grind a response of recessive austerity that - as is clear now to all - is devastating. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is not a tolerable response from this country, from our population. It is not a tolerable answer from any of our social references, which are also different. Ask the company: does it tolerate this answer? No. Ask the workers: do they tolerate this answer? No. No one tolerates it. Then why did we put her on the field and put up with her? Because this is the indication of the international bodies; this is the indication of Europe, that is, of the strongest political and economic powers on our continent. Thus we accept a condition of subalternity, to which there is no remedy. I think we can't go on like this. As the rapporteurs have said, a change of course is necessary. So, since we're taking the photograph now and we know that we're not working well, but tomorrow we have to make the law of stability, someone will come with the same kind of proposal that he's put forward to date, regardless of whether you're staying together in this majority that's not abnormal, but is it more than any other adjective that's available in the vocabulary? Beyond the fact that you are staying with us or that someone else is coming to rule this country, is this the kind of answer that we can all stand? I think not: we must actually change course and have the courage to say it without going to defend small things. I heard that we saw the 0.1 that little moved: guys, you have a microscope that doesn't end anymore. But we can't handle a situation that measures growth with the microscope. We need a different step. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] That is why we are putting forward those proposals which we have put forward on the agenda. We call for organic measures of economic policy that exceed austerity in favour of interventions and investments to support domestic demand, knowing how to select, as all other countries do. At a time when the bottom of the barrel is scraped, we must consider the possibility of recovering something that goes in the direction of the development of our economy. We have repeatedly said that we should start from our productive vocations and not kill the ability to respond to local situations. We have managed this phase with a progressive centralization, which is not only national, but is also European, and it does not work. Those on the outskirts don't answer because they don't recognize us. We're asking for a work plan. But labour policies are necessarily welfare policies, passive policies, policies that do not meet the growth needs of the economic system, as I have already said. The company is born of work, competence and the application of people. That's how the world grew. We must take note of that. We call for a different fiscal policy, a fairer policy. We call for a policy of reducing public expenditure, which means reducing waste without increasing unproductive expenditure. Sometimes certain choices can be counterproductive. For example, if there is a blue car, it is not used because it must be abolished. But then perhaps we send an official on a mission to a place for three days instead of one because his mobility is reduced. We must intervene on the hydrogeological system in order not to pay for the damage that occurs in the event of rain. We save on cleaning city drains and then rains take away cars, people and everything they meet, and we have to pay back the damage. It's a stupid way to save money. We have to stop saving stupidly. In other words, we need to make better use of the leverage of savings. We need an industrial policy. But is it possible that we have five million cell phones in the country and we don't make one? What should we live with if we give up an industrial policy, an investment policy for training, knowledge, research, the growth of our new generations, that is, the best human resources we have in this country? I conclude, Madam President, by saying that we need to change the next budgetary adjustment so that we can see balances other than those we have seen here. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u33	Senator Comaroli is enrolled to speak, who during her speech will also illustrate the agendas of the day G100 and G101. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senators, the measures we are debating here today relate to the reporting and adjustment of the state budget. These are two very, very technical and therefore very complex documents, but nevertheless of great interest. In the light, in fact, of the difficulty of our country to emerge from a crisis that seems endless - I do not know you, but I do not see the light at the bottom of the tunnel that sees and about which Visco speaks - and in proximity to what has always been the key measure for the economic and financial planning of the country, that is the law of stability that we will shortly have to approve, with the accounting and budgetary adjustment we analyze in detail item by item the chapters that have determined the economic and financial results of the State. Well, what do we see in all these accounts? Numerous and interesting are the ideas for reflection, all the more so than ever it is necessary for a country like ours to have a picture of the economic situation as analytical and in-depth. It is well known that 2012 represented a year of great, great sacrifices for citizens and businesses when tax and onerous measures are imposed on them, first of all their own municipal tax. It is no coincidence, as can be seen from the accounts, that total tax revenues have risen so much compared to the forecasts set in 2012, but we cannot fail to point out that there has also been a significant decrease in income tax revenue, a clear sign of a difficulty in the economic system to create new wealth and work. Further evidence, in 2012 national GDP stood at 1,566 billion euros, with a decrease in volume of 2.4% compared to 2011. This, ladies and gentlemen, is perhaps the most obvious sign on which we must concentrate. It is a sign of how the previous government's initiatives have not brought that much praised growth at all, but indeed how those same measures have laid the foundations for a further recession in the national economic system. I remember that last year, at this very time, Professor Monti said that the crisis was over and that at the end of the tunnel there was light. And I remember telling him, are you sure it's not the lights on the train? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We find it difficult to continue to make Italians believe, therefore, that there will be an economic recovery and that the public debt will decrease, when last year the famous debt-to-GDP ratio reached the incredible record value of 127 percentage points and today, instead, we have reached almost 130 percentage points. The fact remains, not by chance, that in the Italian tax system the problem is certainly not represented on the revenue side, since at least with regard to some regions of Italy the citizens work hard paying punctually what was due to the treasury. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Rather, problems begin to occur when you enter specifically on the expense side. Colleagues, state spending is exorbitant. You can't go on with these expenses anymore. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] and it is here, in fact, that the whole system shows its chronic problems. In fact, the account is crystal clear. The forecast of overall expenditure on competence has increased - I repeat - compared with the initial forecasts by 3%, compared with a decrease of 0.8% in the previous year. In short, at a time of crisis, of serious crisis, at a time when all citizens are making enormous efforts to be able to pay taxes by holding on to a job that for many, unfortunately, is increasingly linked to a thread, the state, which should set an example for proper and efficient management, what does it do? He keeps increasing his exits. The state, the first actor of that economic recovery that we all have long hoped for, is the first that should plan the initiatives for recovery and in fact is the first that hinders this recovery. The umpteenth paradox of Italy, therefore, and in fact the map to the perfect litmusol of this country. However, the analysis of the accounts also provides considerable insights into the economic results of each Ministry's year, precisely measuring the costs incurred by the central government, dividing them between operating costs and costs for transfers of financial resources and interest payments on the debt that the State carried out in the year. In this sense, it is clear that those supported by the various ministries are the voices that most affect costs. As many as 87 percent of these costs, among other things, refer to personnel. Even with regard to these expenses - as is well known - legislative measures were adopted to reduce this impact and known under the name of spending review. I recall that Enrico Bondi had been appointed Commissioner for the revision of expenditure in order to make these cuts. And what did we get? Nothing. On the contrary, there has been a 3% increase in such expenditure. It is regrettable to point out that, in the face of the municipalities that have had to make horizontal and heavy cuts in order to recover the smaller resources resulting from the cuts in transfers, thus unfortunately providing less services to their citizens, there are instead bodies of the central government of the State where the terrible axe of the cuts seems not to have fallen. On the contrary (in addition to the damage the mockery): the significant decrease recorded in this chapter comes mostly from the lacked reintegration of personnel into public security, when recent facts of the news show how much greater security is needed for the citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The citizen cannot be afraid to walk in the squares of his own country, his own city! I mean, we're still cutting people off all the time. For these reasons, during the Commission's examination of these measures, the Group of the North League considered it necessary to intervene by trying to propose some changes in the balance sheet items, with the clear intention of cutting the dry branches and the inefficiencies that constitute a heavy plug for the recovery of our country. Our work has therefore been moved by the desire to adjust, as far as possible, certain items of expenditure by granting more resources to chapters that would require more investment. In this respect, the Court of Auditors itself has again censored the bad habit of spending resources without first having adequately covered them. It is written in the report: read it, colleagues. This is also what the Letta Government has done that to suppress the IMU has used a cover not certain, but future and random: it has used a cover that is not known if it will be there. Only through a real and concrete reduction in public expenditure, colleagues - the great evil of this administration (as the two measures in question clearly show) - will it be possible to announce to the citizens a genuine and efficient reform of a state which, on the other hand, risks continuing in its dangerous screwing over itself. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Madam President, I would also like to explain the agenda. Our Group has presented two agendas whose aims are very simple. With the G100, we ask the Government, in the light of the current economic situation, to strengthen the revision of spending, to really cut all forms of inefficiency, to analyze in detail and eliminate without being afraid to make cuts and to use those resources to reduce public debt, that is, our great evil. To reduce public debt and, at the same time, to reduce the tax burden, both for businesses and for citizens. 18.34 (Following COMAROLI). Only and only then will there be real economic recovery. With the other agenda, the G101, since our Municipalities have suffered dramatic cuts and often - indeed - fail to provide services, we still ask to identify the inefficiencies of the State, especially the public waste of the Ministries, instead allocating the resources to those virtuous Municipalities who - yes - know how to spend public money only and only for their citizens. [[Live applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u35	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u36	Mr President, representative of the Government, I have only one thing to say when I look at the accounts and the adjustments: it is time for courage! It is time to make a clear and effective project that you look at the next twenty years to present to the Italians, asking them for an effort of unity on an idea of the future. If you feel it and we all feel it together, we can do it. Of course, the same project will have to be spent in Europe too, making it clear that it is a possible way out of the difficult situation in which we are, without incurring further infringements. It is obvious that we can no longer act on the currency to act on our economy; it is equally clear that the remuneration of labour is now so low that it does not allow us to survive. Those who say otherwise, comparing themselves to China, East or India, say a bit of a joke. Keynesian infrastructure and policies will not save us and the era of cement and huge state investments is over: when in fifteen to twenty years those works will be ready, they will be obsolete and we will have paid a very high price, not only from an economic point of view, but also from an environmental point of view. We have only one factor to leverage: quality, in all fields, even quality of life. That is precisely why it is time for courage. So let us reform the banking system and separate credit and finance. We take every European country to have the State Central Bank and make the European Central Bank public. [[Applause from Senator Martelli]] We give easy access to credit. We republish the Deposit and Loan Fund. Let us redefine the international treaties. We support small rural coffers that will thus facilitate and support the network of small and very small enterprises in their territory. We invest in culture and education, in beauty. Let us take care of the people and places where they live and work. We encourage large-scale distribution and consortia that receive 90% of the funding. Let's really simplify the bureaucracy. We activate the widespread fight against evasion, avoidance and distraction of funds. I do not speak of CIPE and Infrastructures SpA: I would never be given enough time. As I said, the moment of courage has come: let us reinvest the primary surplus for three years on a clear and effective project; let us spend a review worthy of this name, with targeted and courageous cuts and no longer horizontal, because the same cuts for all mean only greater injustices and lack of courage in the choices; let us abandon the defense or at least resize it strongly and invest on all the bodies that commit themselves to giving our everyday life the serenity we all need, with a particular attention to their preparation, the well-being and the abilities of the men and women who work there. We make this act of courage, we make different choices, we reverse the course and we take Italy out of this swamp. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senator Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u37	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u38	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate is called upon to approve the final accounts for 2012 and the adjustment of the state budget for the financial year 2013. The debate on the accounts provides an opportunity for an assessment of the correspondence between the annual budget forecasts and the results of its management. This is a moment, therefore, which allows the legislative power and this House to verify what has been the work of the Commission during the previous financial year, of course using the result of this evaluation to correct the accounts for the current financial year. The debate on the budget documents allows us, as usual on these occasions, to work on some specific and more general considerations. First of all, the figures: the figures on tax revenues, as shown in the 2013 adjustment, rising in the first seven months of the current year, lead us to reflect. The results obtained by the tax authorities in the first seven months of the year, as illustrated by the Government in the Budget Committee, have seen the revenue increase by 1.2% compared to the same period of 2012. Overall, the tax revenues recorded during the period January-July 2013, established on the basis of the criterion of legal competence, amount to 234,703 million euros (plus 2,770 million euros compared to the same period of 2012). Positive also the results obtained in respect of the revenues deriving from the activity of ascertainment and control: 4,256 million euros (plus 287 million euros equal to an increase of 7.2 percent), confirmation, emphasizes a note of the Economy, of the effectiveness of the action of contrast to the escape... (Translated with Google Translate) IRPEF revenue rises by 1.1%. Revenue from direct taxes is also growing, with a total increase of 4.7% (plus 6,003 million euros) compared to the same period of the previous year. IRPEF revenue grows by 1.1 percent (plus 1.059 million euros) mainly driven by increases in withholding tax on public sector employees' income (plus 3.8 percent) and self-liquidation payments (plus 2%). IRES also has a significant growth of 12.8% (plus €1,965 million), in particular due to substantial payments made by large taxpayers. VAT revenues are decreasing. These are signs of suffering coming from the small and medium-sized enterprises and the professions. As far as expenditure is concerned, the decision to equalise the Court's statement highlights those accounting inconsistencies which the rapporteur has already highlighted and which I do not want to repeat. On this front, however, Parliament's cognitive tools will need to be strengthened in line with the provisions of Article 5 (4) of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 2012, which provides for the exercise by the Chambers of the function of control over public finance. From these data it is confirmed that the State must implement a policy of diffuse interventions in order to revive the competitiveness of the Italy system. It is the loss of the competitiveness of Lombardy, the economic engine of Italy and one of the four most economically strong European regions (together with the Rhône-Alpes, Catalonia and Baden-Württemberg), that make our country fall back in place in the EU ranking of the most competitive regions of the continent. And Lombardy loses competitiveness penalized by the malfunctions of the Italy system: therefore, a dog that bites its tail. Overall result is that in Lombardy we have also seen, in recent years, a decrease in foreign direct investment, this very eloquent indicator of the attractiveness of the territory. Well, the share of foreign direct investors, already before this sharp decline, was still far from the European standard. That was 0.8-0.9% of GDP: a third of foreign investment in France, Germany and the United Kingdom and a fifth of investment in the Netherlands. This will of course be reflected in the country's overall macro-data, which the rapporteur rightly pointed out. The latest data, as mentioned, show that Italy is the only OECD country whose growth rate in 2013 will be negative (less 1.8%). On the other hand, the pace of recovery in the major advanced economies increased in the second quarter and growth is expected to remain at a similar rate even in the second half of the year. In view of our specific situation, the growth of the second quarter in the main advanced economies as a whole was, in fact, stronger than expected. The United States continued to recover, despite the opposite winds resulting from strong fiscal consolidation. The GDP of the euro area, in the second quarter, grew after a period of exceptional weakness, at the end of 2012 and in the first quarter of 2013, thus ending a period of six consecutive quarters of contraction. In the UK, growth regained momentum in the first half of the year. In summary, Italy remains the only European nation for which good news about the state of the economy is still late. Italy is, therefore, among the last positions also with regard to the percentage of inexpensive bank loans; only Ireland and Greece are in a worse situation. Also the performance of the export market, traditionally positive for Italy, has been in free fall in recent years, especially compared with that of Germany and Ireland. A persistent weakness in interventions in advanced economies, following the crisis, has then slowed down capital growth and risks curbing productivity growth during the recovery. Greater progress towards removing barriers to trade and bilateral agreements could help stimulate productivity growth and give a new boost to increasing trade volume. However, we must all contribute to a clear awareness of the situation we are experiencing. On this subject I would just remind you that on 6 August, in an interview given at the end of a summit with Prime Minister Enrico Letta and representatives of the Bank of Italy, the Minister of Economy Fabrizio Saccomanni said: I believe that the economy will recover, we are at a turning point in the cycle. Unfortunately the optimistic forecasts have been denied by the latest data, which show that Italy is the only one of OECD countries whose growth rate in 2013 will be negative. Moreover, these numbers are different from the more positive ones to which they had referred in July both the Minister of Economy and the Governor of the Bank of Italy. In fact, even the report to the Parliament just presented by the Government, pursuant to article 10 -bis, paragraph 6, of the law of accounting, attests this decrease, (up to the entire second quarter of 2013 indicated as equal to less 1.7%, and now established by ISTAT as equal to less 1.8%). Now, while it is understandable that the leaders of our economic policy are being led to send messages of confidence, on the other hand, the messages must follow the facts. The diagnosis in this regard is well known: at the internal level, the one on which we can try to intervene: the ancient and never solved problems of our competitiveness are confirmed: an excessive bureaucratic and fiscal burden, a low efficiency and quality of public services, too long times of justice. The difficult governance achieved with a broad coalition agreement is a value to be defended as it is the pre-condition to restart growth, but it takes on a concrete meaning only if we are able to give solutions to the real problems of the country, addressing and resolving the problems of the world of work and business. We need a modern, simpler, lighter Italy; an Italy where it is easy to want to do business and where bureaucracy is never an obstacle. That is our challenge, and we will take action on this challenge in the coming months. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Candiani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u39	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, in 2012 the only countries in Europe that have presented a positive primary balance are Italy and Germany. The actual deficit or net debt for Italy was 3%, when in the other countries it was much higher, except, of course, Germany, which has a positive balance. Overall, all the countries in the area have however improved budget balances compared to 2011, with Germany in slight surplus. If we look at current debt, i.e. the difference between current revenue and current expenditure net of interest on debt, Italy with its primary surplus and a deficit of about 3% of GDP is the one that gets the best results, after, of course, Germany. The problem becomes dramatic if we look at the debt-to-GDP ratio. The drama is that those who in the past years have contributed to the pontifical financial disaster today, see the North League. In 2012 we have a 6 percentage point increase in the debt-to-GDP ratio and we reach 127 percent compared to 120.8% in 2011. Those six extra points are worth 80 billion euros. The average for the euro area is 92.7%. Our public debt in 2012 amounts to €1,988,658 billion. Tax pressure was 30.1 per cent of GDP and tax pressure reached 44 per cent, an increase compared to 2011 by 1.4%. The debt-to-GDP ratio grows so much because debt in terms of burden costs us so much and, on the other hand, we do not have GDP growth. There are also other factors, but they have minor effects. The value of our GDP in 2012 was around 1,566 billion euros, with a fall of 0.8% compared to 2011. In 2012 gross domestic product in Italy had a negative change of 2.4 percent, with a forecast of less 1.3% in 2013 and a more 0.7% in 2014. Percentages that, with regard to 2013 and 2014, are clearly negative compared to the forecasts of the average of the European countries and the euro area. With these forecasts our public debt will of course continue to increase. Current expenditure in 2012 compared to GDP rose by 0.7% compared to 2011, while expenditure in 2011 decreased significantly compared to 2010. The increase is due to expenditure on social benefits and, above all, to interest payments, which in 2012 increased by more than 8 billion compared to 2011, reaching the figure of more than 86 billion euros. The forecast in the 2012 DEF for interest was 2.5 billion less than the final one. Current expenditure today stands at 48.1% of GDP. I think it is of fundamental importance to analyze prediction data with final data. The public finance objectives that we had assumed for 2012 have been modified with numerous financial maneuvers, quantifiable in about 60 billion euros. The corrective manoeuvres were necessary because the forecasts for GDP proved to be far worse than the forecasts for GDP. This shows that the adoption of too strict fiscal policies does not favour economic growth, which is crucial for the consolidation of public finances. The policy of increasing the tax burden to compensate for the fall in revenue, as a result of the loss of gross domestic product, did not lead to the expected results. In fact, greater taxation at a recessionary stage leads to a further slowdown in the real economy. Tax revenues have increased, yes, but are well below the target: 11 billion less than the September DEF Update Note and almost 30 billion less than the 2012 DEF. In the face of a lack of revenue and a decline in GDP, the aim was to increase the tax burden, with disastrous consequences compared to the budgetary forecasts. In 2012 it was the non-achievement of the revenue forecast that blew the balance targets. Budgetary manoeuvres between September and December 2012 in the light of the nominal decline in GDP have led to a sharp increase in the tax burden. The Court of Auditors tells us that, in addition to the loss of revenue, decisions have been taken that have weakened the collection activity, removing operational instruments available to the collection agents and above all warns us of a reality which, moreover, has been added evidence, no less worrying, that the 2011 accounts had not yet fully grasped: the fading of the role, so far very important, attributed by tax policy to the expansion of tax bases and the recovery of revenue removed from evasion and circumvention. The tax revenue was almost 90 billion lower than at the beginning of the parliamentary term, which meant that the deficit target was not met. The term of office shows, therefore, that the failure to achieve a balanced budget is due to the fall in tax revenue resulting from the loss of product in which the Italian economy has incurred. Despite this, the tax burden has increased compared to the budget forecasts (43.1 per cent), reaching the record figure of 44 per cent of GDP and primary expenditure, despite the high savings achieved, has risen from 43 per cent to 45.6 per cent of GDP. This is the fundamental fact that, in my opinion, comes from this account: the forecasts have been completely wrong and disregarded and must lead us to a serious reflection on future political choices. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u41	The joint general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u42	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 888, Senator Santini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u43	Mr President, I will be very quick, with only three comments. Firstly, I would like to stress that the very interesting debate that has taken place in this House - and I thank all my colleagues for their very timely speeches - has focused, above all, on the assessments of economic policy results rather than on the analysis of the structure of the report. In this regard, in particular, I believe that the many negative judgments on economic policy that we have heard in this House are certainly referring to 2012, without taking into account the fact that objectively the second half of 2013 shows an improvement over many data. It is an improvement that I believe we all have a duty to contribute to strengthening, starting with the law of stability that the Government and Parliament will soon have to examine, in order to give more strength and engage in the international recovery that is rightly valued by several parties. The second point I wish to make concerns precisely the structure of the report. As has already been said in the report, approving the report does not mean hiding the critical issues that emerge in its structure; rather, it must be ensured that the report makes it possible to highlight more strongly the relationship between the allocation of resources and the achievement of the objectives of each administration. This is unfortunately not easy to identify today: I think of the many critical issues, the passive residues, as well as the forms of discrepancy between resources and the way in which they are used. In the light of these considerations, therefore - and I come to the third point - Parliament's commitment, when we approve the report, must be to learn from these facts and from these difficulties in order to exercise greater control, in the forms provided for in the legislation, especially through the work of the Commissions. The objective is that, in this way, the combined effect of a more growth-oriented policy on the one hand, and greater strictness and transparency of the reporting, on the other hand, will allow the maximization of public expenditure for control purposes and a more specific and precise destination towards growth and development objectives. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u44	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 889, Senator Ceroni.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u45	Mr President, I would like to say briefly that I agree with the arguments put forward by some of the Members who have spoken, highlighting so many critical issues, inconveniences and sacred principles: I believe that the Government will want to take these suggestions together to take account of them in the next steps that will be taken. The measure we are discussing today includes the provisions for the adjustment of the state budget for the 2013 financial year, which is now coming to an end. However, the provisions for the adjustment, which must be approved, certify that the problem of public finances remains in its gravity, with an increasing debt, a constitutional law - No. 1 of 20 April 2012 - that goes to be blessed and the balance of the budget that goes away. Expenditure is increasing, not just those relating to the cost of public debt; revenue is reduced: VAT, excise duties on fuels, tax revenue. On one thing I thought I understood, listening to the speeches, that we all agree: the economy must be restarted. This is the only way to overcome this situation. We need to increase GDP, lower labour costs, create new jobs, so that new resources are available for the problems that have been raised. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u46	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u47	Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their detailed reports and for their substantive comments. I am certainly grateful to the Government for the quality of the debate that has taken place in this House. It is precisely this debate that requires the Government to make, first of all, some technical clarifications and, then, some brief political considerations. With regard to the subject of the statement, the Government fully shares the considerations contained in the reply made by Senator Santini, who touched on some arguments, reaffirming that there is a clear need to make more intelligible and transparent, from the point of view of the quality of the identification of the expenditure, the general statement of the State, being an element that allows to identify the responsibility in the expenditure, especially administrative. This is one of the strategic elements of a change of pace for the next few years that the Government, the governments that will have to engage on this side will still have to carry on, in a logic of greater effectiveness and continuity. As regards the adjustment aspect, first of all I would like to represent and point out once again that the changes made with the adjustment measure, together with the changes in the budget, relate to the period between 1 January and 31 May 2013. As a result of these changes, the net balance to be financed in terms of competence, approved by the 2013 budget law, goes from less 6,185 million euros to less 31,066 million euros. Large part of that deterioration of the balance derives from the budgetary changes adopted in January-May 2013, with a total negative effect of €16,586 million. Those variations are related to the implementation of Decree-Law No. 35, for 10,5 billion euros; to the allocation of 2 billion euros in favor of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, pursuant to Decree-Law No. 95; to the allocation of financial resources from the privatization SACE-SIMEST. These measures authorised expenditure covered by government debt issues, which were therefore not compensated. I would like to stress this point, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the whole debate which essentially blamed politics for the difficulty of making choices: the budgetary changes connected with the 2013 adjustment mainly concern specific political choices, which have dealt with emergency situations which have reverberated on this need for settlement intervention. They are not, therefore, simply due to a lack of attention to the dynamics connected with the state budget. With regard to the adjustment of 2013, there is a worsening of the net balance to be financed in terms of 9.9 billion euros, due overall to another set of reasons - which is right to reiterate - which obviously have purely political content. As far as final revenue is concerned, account has obviously been taken of the macroeconomic framework set out in the April 2013 DEF, which already reflected the decrease in tax revenue, and thus incorporates that update already considered in the public finance trends. I don't want to bore you with a number of revenue-related numbers (I'm going to leave the documents to the record, as I did in the Commission), but it's clear that the revenues of the first seven months of 2013, overall, show an element of growth of as much as 1.2%, compared to the same period of the previous year: i.e. it is higher than the rate of growth of tax revenues settled for 2013 compared to the 2012 balance sheet. MARINO Luigi (SCPI). Including VAT? Mr Giorgetti, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. In short, the budgetary adjustment must be read not only, of course, in the parts that must be progressively improved by the government actions that will have to be adopted in the coming months, but also in a positive key. Not all the elements relating to revenue entry and revenue management have been negative: we have a set of data that has objectively allowed us to stand. I would like to say that extra-tributary revenue has also increased by EUR 2,088 million, largely due to the forecast that, in the entry of the state budget, the existing availability on special accounts in the name of the State Monopoly Company will be transferred. Overall, expenditure is reduced by 2.5 billion, mainly due to lower transfers to regions with special status and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, in order to adjust the initial appropriations to the actual level of tax revenue directly collected. Interest expenditure also shows an interesting decrease, which is an element that we can also consider a value, most likely, for the coming months. With regard to positive changes in expenditure related to the operation of administrations, efficiency factors relating to expenditure on intermediate consumption should also be reported. It is a subject that has been repeatedly represented by colleagues on the agenda of the debate and is one of the elements on which we will have to work in the coming months to attack expenditure, even if the parts related to intermediate consumption are traditionally considered very difficult to touch, since - as you know - to a large extent concern the so-called social state: therefore, the responses in the area of health and support to the weak, the resources that are transferred to the regions, in short that amount of very important resources, but difficult to compress without affecting the quality of services. As far as the proposed changes are concerned, it should be stressed that all these interventions do not have an impact on net debt and state requirements, which therefore do not, as has been pointed out by some, worsen overall - a public finance framework which, otherwise, seems somewhat out of control. Public finance is not out of control: it is at a time when choices have been made mainly related to an extraordinary element, which has been mentioned before, namely the payment of public administration debts. On this point, we have also tabled a further amendment to increase the possibility for the Treasury to use the issue of additional government bonds, precisely in order to meet the commitments made in the legislation to make a further effort in the payment of debts of the public administration. More generally, we must also recognise that there have been some passages concerning the addition of cash envelopes, the repayment of loans relating in particular to international markets and, more generally, one billion and 200 million relating to the gaming sector. These were positive accounting adjustments. In conclusion, President, every occasion in which we face the passage of budgetary documents in Parliament, the Senate and the Chamber, brings to the attention the debate on the economic situation that we are going through and the difficulties that the country continues to demonstrate regarding an international crisis that, however, begins to give signals in countertrend. In my opinion, and in the opinion of the Government, there are three issues that we should address in the draft law of stability and that will have to be a cornerstone for the actions aimed at guaranteeing a true prospect of reunion of the resumption - as someone has remembered - and to nourish the hope of being able to support also eventual industrial plans (which obviously do not compete to the Ministry of the economy, but to the Government in general), as well as policies of support of the reduction of the fiscal pressure and the employment. The first of the three issues I would like to mention is public expenditure. This government has installed itself in the course of the year and for this reason it has not had the opportunity to work only to a small extent, precisely because the administrations, at the time when the government has installed, were already operating for a long time and it was difficult at that point to intervene on the reduction of the expenditure. It will therefore be our specific commitment to work in the stability bill to make a significant reduction in expenditure on the quality side of any cuts that will not have to be generalized, but selective. The second consideration concerns the tax delegation, which is now being examined by the House and which we hope will be approved quickly so that it can arrive at the Senate for the second reading as soon as possible. It is, in our view, a significant keystone, not so much in terms of reducing the tax burden but rather in terms of simplification as well as greater equity and a better balance of the system. The third question concerns, ladies and gentlemen, the forms of cover that some of you have mentioned. It is clear to everyone that, in a context in which - as some of you have pointed out - we must aim for a balanced budget and greater efficiency in covering expenditure (as the Court of Auditors has repeatedly called for), the quality of the cover is a fundamental element. From this point of view, I believe that certainty, together with quality, is the challenge that awaits not only the Government, but also Parliament. We know very well that it is absolutely unpopular and difficult to resort to increases, for example, in excise duties in general, an instrument which we have used a great deal in these decrees and which we would like to reduce or eliminate in the near future. However, we know very well that measures must be identified that are compatible with the effort that the country is supporting and fairer than those traditionally used, but that can also be accepted at European level, the other important aspect that is very often neglected but which represents a point of reference for us that we cannot avoid keeping in mind. In my opinion, and in the view of the Government, these three conditions will be able to represent, with the virtuous contribution of Parliament, as happened here also during this debate, the determining element in order to engage in a more vigorous way the revival of the country. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u48	Mr Secretary, the Presidency authorizes you to attach the data you referred to. I inform you that, since the final vote on the two measures will take place by electronic ballot, pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, once the votes on the articles of the accounts have been completed, we will proceed directly to the examination of the articles of the settlement. The joint explanations of vote will then be followed and the two votes will be taken using the electronic system.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u51	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I do not know what regulation you are referring to when you spoke on the phone a few minutes ago when you were chairing this House. [[Comments from the PdL Group.]] I don't know how urgent you were to speak on the phone while the Undersecretary was responding. She sends messages all the time. I think that, perhaps, with respect for this House and for the senators who are taking part in many of this work, you must take a more respectful attitude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u52	Thank you. I put to the vote Rule 1. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 5, with the annexes Nos. 1 and 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 5, together with the annexes Nos. 1 and 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 6. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. FALANGA (PdL). Mr President, can I ask for an electronic vote for all votes? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No! CRIMI (M5S). You can't! [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] Unfortunately, this time it is not possible, because this type of procedure requires it from time to time. He's gonna be in a fight with his partner. FALANGA (PdL). I therefore request a roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 7. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 7. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 8. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u55	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, I would point out that there has been yet another irregularity. Mrs Eva Longo has voted for the absent Member, and this is the third time I have mentioned it. I would like to see a more appropriate attitude in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u56	We'll have a Senator Secretary check it out. I'll ask Senator Barani to verify. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u59	FALANGA (PdL). Mr President, before requesting an electronic vote, I would like to remind my colleague that Eva Longo is a senator, as well as a lady. Mr Paglini (M5S). She's a senator voting for a colleague who's not here! [[Comments from the PdL Group]] FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u60	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 9. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u63	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, precisely because Eva Longo is a senator, she should not take certain behaviors. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, I'm asking you to take...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u64	Senators are here.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u65	SANTANGELO (M5S). President, let me finish. We must extract the absentee's card, and I ask that it be put on the record, because it is a crime.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u66	I've asked Senator Secretary Barani to do the routine checks. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] Senator Santangelo, Senator Secretary will take care of it. We must now vote on Article 10. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm asking the Senators to remove the absentee's card. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite Senator Secretary Barani to do the routine checks. SANTANGELO (M5S). I would also like to ask for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u69	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in order to obtain a regular vote, when the seizure of the cards of the non-voters voting... They are checks: talking about "sequestration operations" seems excessive to me. SANTANGELO (M5S). No, Mr. President. There's a lot of chatter, so it's confusing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conquer the Assembly. SANTANGELO (M5S). No, you have to win her over as president. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't worry. I do what I can. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u70	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 10. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11. FALANGA (PdL). I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 11. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889 president. I remember that the final vote of bill No. 888 will take place after the vote of the articles of the settlement. We shall now proceed to the examination of the agenda for the draft law No 889, which has already been set out, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u71	Mr President, on the agenda, Mr G100, I am in favour of the request for a rewording of the proposal. It is requested to replace the words "to reduce the burden of public administration" with the following: "to reduce inefficiencies and waste of public administration." With regard to the agenda G101, again in the device, it is asked to replace the words "in order to increase the erial funds in favour of the virtuous Municipalities," of which we share the concept, with the following: "priority in order to increase the erial funds in favour of the virtuous Municipalities." As regards the G102 agenda, at the first signing of Senator Uras, I generally support the proposal for a rewording of the mechanism, where we are talking about the reduction of funding for strategic infrastructure, investment in weapon systems and subsidies for private schools. In fact, I would point out that there is an inconsistency, because financing private schools is a forecast contained in a law of the State, that on school equality, and therefore this part should never be merged into the part relating to school. In this particular case, however, it does not seem to me that from this request we can recover who knows what resources, being, I repeat, a law of the State. We therefore propose that the reference to subsidies to private schools be deleted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u72	I would like to ask those who table agendas if they accept the rapporteur's proposals. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. URAS (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on the Government representative to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u73	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion on the first two agendas. On the agenda of the G102, which objectively goes beyond the scope of the budgetary session (because we are talking about this), to supplement what the rapporteur said, I would propose a further amendment, in the sense of writing: "it commits the Government to prepare in the context of the next economic measures" instead of "the next budgetary session" because this, by a specific nature, does not lend itself to addressing a large part of these issues. If, on the other hand, we write economic provisions, we could make those commitments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u74	Senator Uras, do you agree with the request made by the government representative? URAS (Misto-SEL). Yes, I agree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G100 (text 2), G101 (text 2) and G102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1. Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency would point out that, in accordance with Article 33 (3) of the Accounting Act, with the bill of settlement, compensatory changes may be proposed, limited to the current financial year, between the financial allocations for programmes of the same expenditure mission and exclusively for remodulated expenditure resulting from legislative factors. Therefore, in accordance with the provisions already laid down during the review in the referee, the Presidency declares that amendments 1.Tab.2.1, 1.Tab.2.2, 1.Tab2.3, 1.Tab.2.5, 1.Tab.2.6, 1.Tab.3.1, 1.Tab.6.1, 1.Tab 6.2, 1. Tab.8.1 and 1.Tab.8.3. Only amendments 1.Tab.2.4 and 1.Tab.8.2 remain to be considered, and I would ask the authors to explain them. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I do not intend to explain them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u75	The opinion is against both.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u76	I too am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u77	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.Tab.2.4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment No 1.Tab.2.4, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.Tab.8.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 1.Tab.8.2 tabled by Senators Comaroli and Bitonci. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 with the annexed tables. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 1 with the annexed tables. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. . I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 888 and 889 president. This led to the conclusion of the examination of the articles of the arrangement. Colleagues, the closing time for the sitting is at 8 p.m. and requests have been made for the end of the sitting, but we could begin to make some explanations of vote and then proceed to the sitting tomorrow. This evening we could make two explanations of vote and continue with the speeches at the end of the sitting, postponing the remaining explanations of vote and the final vote to the sitting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u80	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, please, let us not introduce this precedent. The explanations of vote shall always be held in unity as a whole. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u81	There are numerous precedents in this regard. But I'm going back to an evaluation of the groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u82	FERRARA Mario (GAL). They were exceptionally recited when they were not carefully programmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u83	Senator Ferrara, my custom with you brings me to a kind consideration of your request. Since I note that the other groups also make a point of assent, I refer the explanations of vote to the sitting tomorrow morning, reminding my colleagues that at 11 a.m. the intervention in the Chamber of the Minister of Justice, on the subject of judicial geography, which was very much heard, was included in the agenda. The important thing, then, is that tomorrow at 11 a.m. we can discuss that issue, which is of great importance to many of our colleagues. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u86	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, there are so many oaths in life. There are those who swear to treat every patient with equal scrupulousness and commitment regardless of ethnicity, religion, nationality, social condition and political ideology; to assist... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u87	Senator Council, be patient. He knows it's true. When we move on to the late-session speeches, it happens. So have the strength and patience to proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u88	The presidency listens to you. In the meantime, please leave the Chamber. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). ...he also swears to provide emergency assistance to those in need. Strong of this oath and of this belief Sunday evening in the Municipality of Chiuduno, in the province of Bergamo, Eleonora Cantamessa, a 44 year old doctor of Bergamo, passing by car with a friend stops to assist a stranger... (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, the Senator Council is calling for a news event that you have all followed, which has particularly shaken public opinion. The victim of this incident deserves the respect of the Senate Assembly. I therefore call on those who are interested in listening in silence and others, if they have other urgency, to leave the Chamber, because the Presidency also shares the call of attention on a matter which - I repeat - has shaken everyone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I am really very stunned by this attitude. Let me start from the beginning, Mr President, simply because I am not talking about football, sport or some other somewhat more frivolous subject, but I am talking about an issue linked to a drama, something that has been considered a horror. As I said, Mr President, in life you swear on many things and for many things: I swear to care for every patient, with equal scrupulousness and commitment, regardless of ethnicity, religion, nationality, social condition and political ideology; to provide emergency assistance to those who need it. Strong this oath and this conviction, Sunday evening in the municipality of Chiuduno, in the Province of Bergamo, Eleonora Cantamessa, a wonderful 44 year old doctor, passing by car with a friend stopped to provide help to an unknown person, to an Indian man injured in a fight. A car with four fellow countrymen of the wounded - its aggressors - mowed both, probably with the aim (on this are being investigated by the Carabinieri) to finalize the man by themselves stabbed. Mr President, an angel died for bringing faith to that oath: he lost his life because his heart was too great and his generosity was too great, and that generosity had no limits. She was very good, simple, sweet, helpful and generous; she was like that, and she couldn't help but stop. He never closed the door in anyone's face. These are among the comments that have most accompanied the last hours. Those who knew her well have appreciated her life in these 44 years: a girl who had given her life for such an important profession. The balance of what seems to be a bloody balance of accounts between immigrants is two deaths and eight wounded people. Ladies and gentlemen, we are always very perplexed when we talk about these cases, because we are accused of racism and easy demagogy; we are referring to situations that should never happen. Lassisism and goodness about immigration are no longer possible, just as it is no longer possible to denounce it. Attention: we as a group have absolutely taken into account all the sides of this horror, what has been considered a fact by Far West, because a family has been destroyed. There is probably a settlement of accounts between immigrant gangs. A great deal of attention must also be paid to the cuts made towards the police, who have suffered a heavy reduction in economic resources in recent months, so much so that they do not even have the money to make gasoline. I would like to make one final point. Mr President, since it has now become a war on the streets, on behalf of my Group I ask that this angel Eleonora Cantamessa be awarded the gold medal for military value, because we are at war! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u91	I believe that the story you have drawn deserves all the attention and that, in the appropriate ways and forms, the institutions can pay homage to this heroic doctor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u94	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (PdL). Mr President, just now, my colleague, Mr Council, referred to the doctor who was tragically and tragically killed in rendering her service and witnessing the sense of solidarity. He echoes that heinous assassination another, which happened a few days ago in Bari, in my city, where Paola Labriola, a good and beloved psychiatrist from her patients, in the exercise of her professional activity at the Mental Hygiene Center of the Freedom neighborhood in Bari, was killed, killed by 30 stab wounds, inferte that violently heined by a assisted in the abdomen until she was stramizzare ashore without life. The city was stunned. The country has questioned this strip of blood that stretches inexorably to the door of the institutions. Today, in fact, we have to ask ourselves in the relevant seats, in the classrooms of Parliament, if it is possible that in a civilized country we will end up dying of work. This colleague, this doctor, in fact, this doctor, died killed by serving the State, serving his patients, faithful to the oath of Hippocrates. Mr President, I entrust to the assessments of this House the dramatic circumstance of this and the other heinous crime, because, undoubtedly, serious consideration must be given by compulsively compulsively compelling the Minister of Health, but also the Ministers for the Interior and Labour. We have no magical recipes and we will not allow anyone to make any kind of speculation about these deaths. The problem is dramatically disturbing, it questions our consciences. There is a clear need to rethink the security systems that, as currently organized within public health structures, are found to be inadequate. Probably the question can be addressed with an intervention that, far from hypotizing a militarization of the sanitary garrisons, leads however to introduce systems that, also through the insertion of metal detectors in the public structures, can allow the regular development of the activity, guaranteeing more and better the protection of the life of those inside those structures work and to those structures addresses. This is the warning that comes to us, because the days of mourning proclaimed by the mayors will not be sufficient nor will the thousands of people who attended the funerals, with touching words of the archbishop, be sufficient to silence our consciences. We must make sure that these tragedies move us concretely towards a solution that is the most appropriate and the most appropriate. The country awaits her, just as her husband and the children of Paola Labriola, who are still unbelieving in seeing their joint death, exanimous, full of blood for having been the victim of this heinous murder. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u97	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, I am sorry to have to come back to this, but I am still kindly addressing the President of the Senate to remind you that the Italian Government has signed an agreement with the President of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, Durnwalder, which concerns billboarding: a particularly sensitive issue that has affected public opinion several times and that, on the eve of the election campaign in South Tyrol-Südtirol, is the subject of great political controversy among the parties. It therefore seems to me very strange that there are those who know the content of this agreement and that Parliament is not aware of it. At last sitting I asked for the text of this agreement to be forwarded to the parliamentary groups. I would also ask the President of the Senate to pay attention to parliamentary prerogatives, because we are still a parliamentary Republic. Parliament is the seat of popular sovereignty and it is unacceptable that agreements of this importance should not be known by Members, who can give a positive or negative view of it. However, before giving a judgment, it will be good to know the content of the agreement, which - I repeat - has already been signed by Minister Delrio and President Durnwalder, and which is the subject of campaign controversy. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask you to urge the Government, if it has not yet sent it, to send the text of the agreement to Parliament so that we can judge its content.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u98	This is a legitimate request that the Presidency will have to accept and take on board.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u99	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-98.ana.u100	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 11 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.46.
