ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.36 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Alberti CASELLATI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 6 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I will inform you of the timetable for the work of this House. (Brusio). Colleagues, I understand that the session has not yet begun for you... The Conference of Leaders, which met this morning, approved the new timetable for work until 23 May. At the question time sitting, which is scheduled for tomorrow at 10 a.m. with direct television broadcasting, the Minister for Labour and Social Policy will answer questions about initiatives in favour of "exposed" workers and employment support policies. Tomorrow afternoon will be dedicated to the work of the Commissions. Next week, at the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 21 May, beginning at 10 a.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications on the European Council on 22 May. At the end of the debate, any policy instruments may be voted on. At the opening of the afternoon session on Tuesday, May 21, the Assembly will recall the figure of Francesco Renda, an authoritative historian, former senator of the 5th legislature. The calendar also provides, starting from the afternoon session on Tuesday 21 May, the examination of the decree-law on health matters, already approved by the Senate, where amended and transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies. The discussions were divided between the Groups. In the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 22, at 16, the secret ballot will take place by electronic procedure on the resignation presented by Senator Ignazio Marino. The Conference of the Leaders also decided to plan for Wednesday 29 May a debate on motions for the start of the process of constitutional reforms, with modalities and timetables to be defined in agreement with the Chamber of Deputies and with the Government. Finally, at the next Conference of the Leaders, the Lucidi motion on the boards of directors of public companies will be scheduled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, which met this morning with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the following calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 23 May 2013: [[Wednesday 15 May pom. h. 16,30 - Motions on genetically modified crops Thursday 16 May ant. h. 10 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy on initiatives in favour of "exodated" workers and on employment support policies - Questions and questions]] The afternoon of Thursday 16 May will be dedicated to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, 21 May ant. h. 10-13 - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers on the European Council of 22 May 2013 Tuesday 21 May pom. h. 15,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 298-B - Decree-Law n. 24, laying down urgent provisions in the field of health (Approved by the Senate; where amended and transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 25 May) - Vote on the resignation submitted by Senator Ignazio Marino (Vote by secret ballot by electronic procedure) (Wednesday 22, 16) Wednesday 22 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16 Thursday 23 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 23 May pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 298-B (Decree-Law No 24 on urgent health provisions) will be set in relation to the possible transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. Time distribution for discussion of draft law n. 298-B (Decree-Law n. 24 on urgent health provisions) (6 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 45' Government 45' Votes 1 h. Groups 3 hours and 30 minutes, of which: PD 49' PdL 43' M5S 31' SCp 20' LN-Aut 18' LAL 16' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 16' Mixed 16' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u6	I inform you that the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities is convened for its constitution on Tuesday, 21 May, at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u7	I communicate that the parliamentary groups have indicated to the Presidency the nominations of their representatives in the 14th standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 21, paragraph 4-a of the Rules of Procedure, whose composition will be published in an annex to today's Minutes. The Commission shall be convened on Tuesday 21 May 2013 at 3 p.m. to proceed with its formation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u8	On Tuesday 21, at 3 p.m., the extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights and the Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad are also convened for their formation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u11	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I would very briefly like to point out to the Presidency that it has always been a tradition for this House to respect timetables. Today's delay is not justified, not least because some Vice Presidents were present in the Chamber. We can understand the President's reasons, but we could also start the sitting with the presidency of a Vice President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u12	You're right, Senator Susta.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u13	I address a greeting to the students of the Istituto comprensivo "Mazzini Gallo" in Messina, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u14	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00019 (text 3), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-0027, tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators, 1-00038, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators, 1-00040, presented by Senator Berger and other senators, and 1-00042, presented by Senator Formigoni and other senators, on genetically modified crops. I call Senator De Petris to explain motion No 19 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u15	Mr President, motion 1-00019 (text 3), which bears my first signature and which has been tabled together with other colleagues, including the Group of the Party of European Socialists, has a very clear and precise objective and also - I say this immediately - has an urgent nature. In fact, if you, Mr President, and my colleagues, observe the request contained in the final arrangement to commit the Government to adopt the safeguard clause, in order to prevent all forms of cultivation in Italy of the transgenic maize Mon810 and other authorized GMOs, it will be clear to you, precisely, the absolute urgency of the motion. Moreover, I must add that we are in a certain delay, since the sowing season has begun for a long time. This motion stems from the need - put forward by a large part of the agricultural world and the agri-food sector, including consumers and associations - to safeguard our agricultural model. In fact, our agri-food system could be severely damaged by the introduction of transgenic crops, which would question just one of the main factors of creating added value of the country, founded - precisely - on quality productions. The latter, precisely because of their characteristic, typicality and quality, have a strong value on the internal market and also on the foreign market. We can safeguard the Made in Italy not only with a series of policies oriented towards the internationalization of our companies, but first of all by safeguarding the origin of our agricultural model, which in recent years has made enormous steps because it has understood in time that today competition, even at international level, can be governed by our system only and solely based on quality. Therefore, he chose the model of quality, distinctive character and strong link with the territory, as opposed to an approved agricultural model, such as the one that involves the introduction and spread of GMOs in other parts of the world. Therefore, we need to make a clear and precise choice of agri-food models. I would also like to point out that this is the sector that is most resistant to the economic crisis. It is sufficient to observe the latest data on export growth and employment. These important performances of the sector depend precisely on its characteristic, i.e. the fact that it has decided to focus everything on quality and traceability (among other things, this was the effort made by Italian farmers and producers). I repeat: the introduction of transgenic crops would directly result in the questioning of the factors that characterize our agricultural model today. Among other things, I would like to stress very calmly one aspect that I believe everyone recognizes: from 1986 onwards, that is, since genetically modified organisms were introduced into agriculture (and were born with emphatic promises, such as in response to hunger in the world), and therefore in more than 20 years, these have actually been a failure. GMOs have certainly made great profits for multinationals, which have a virtually absolute monopoly in the world (i.e. the "three sisters," Monsanto, Dupont and Syngenta); in reality, however, from the point of view of the production of other factors, they have been a failure. I want to highlight with great clarity another fundamental issue that concerns our country and Europe: the introduction of transgenic crops in an agricultural system like ours, constituted among other things by an average of very small farms (we are neither in Argentina nor in other countries with vast territories), would imply a level of contamination absolutely not avoidable. For this reason, the idea of coexistence is unworkable in an agricultural system such as Italy and Europe. On the other hand, I do not think it is by chance that the path of coexistence is being abandoned in Europe as well. I would like to mention one important point here, namely that there are now eight countries in Europe that have already adopted safeguard clauses. Therefore we in our country can also prevent GMO crops. The safeguard clause in our case - and this is the element that has always been carried out and claimed by agricultural organizations in Italy - is not linked only to the precautionary principle (i.e. the fact that there are no certainties about environmental dangers and human health), but has economic and social motivations. I'd like to make that clear. In calling for the safeguard clause we refer to the fact that the scientific community has no certainty as to the negative effects on the environment and human health. I would like to point out in this connection that the European Food Safety Agency does not have its own laboratories and, therefore, the checks are limited to checking the dossiers submitted by the multinationals. For Italy the other fundamental reason is the economic and social one: a GMO agriculture is incompatible, it cannot coexist with our agricultural model. Therefore, when we invoke the safeguard clause, we fully invoke it for the defence of national interests, in the interests of our country. I would also remind you that European legislation is now very confusing and contradictory in this regard, as is well known to those who have been dealing with these issues for a long time. In the context of Directive 2001/18/EC, for example, reference is made to the fact that coexistence would be very dangerous; this is to say that there are contradictory regulatory references in Europe itself. Moreover, in Europe in recent times, perhaps also thanks to the influence exercised by the eight countries that have adopted the safeguard clause, it is changing the orientation, so much so that we are waiting for the new regulation that would allow each Member State to take autonomous decisions in its own country. This would be a novelty, and many countries are invoking it. I would also remind you that the entire system of regions has unanimously asked our Government to activate the safeguard clause, in accordance with Article 23 of Directive 2001/18/EC. In this connection, I recall that the previous Government, on 29 March, through Minister Balduzzi, in agreement with Minister Clini and Minister Catania, officially asked the European Commission for urgent suspension of the authorization for the cultivation of maize seed in Italy and in the rest of Europe Mon810. This is the first step - as you, Mr President, and my colleagues know - in order to activate the safeguard clause. This is an issue on which Parliament must speak immediately (and I call on you to do so), also in order to respond to the request for urgent suspension made by the previous Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Fattori to explain motion No 27.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u16	Mr President, Senators, our motion also concerns Mon810 maize, so it is very similar to that already illustrated by Senator De Petris. The primary sector, the agro-food sector, as already anticipated by Senator De Petris, is the absolute engine of the Italian economy and one of the distinctive features of our country in the world. It is not our intention to put it at risk by allowing GMO crops and, in particular, that of Monsanto's highly controversial Mon810 maize. Those who still think that the release into the environment by sowing genetically modified products is a competitive advantage, even without health risks, do not know how food chains and biodiversity work, or it is possible that behind these beliefs there are private interests in support of multinationals such as Monsanto (and its sisters), which in its business history has more than a few social shadows. Today this is no longer acceptable: it is not acceptable to endanger the community in the name of great business interests; it is not acceptable to disinform in order to profit; it is not even acceptable that some action could endanger Italian agricultural excellence, which is based on small but quality crops; and it is not acceptable to put public health and the environment in difficulty. Allowing the cultivation of Mon810 maize, a product which is particularly dangerous both for human health and for biodiversity, as it contains a toxin that is dangerous for both man and the food chain, would lead to a certain contamination of those lands which, on the other hand, want to maintain a production of a biological and natural type. This would be an irreversible cultivation and also of a commercial type, which would therefore bind our agricultural sector in two strands and those who work there with Monsanto and with the giants of the sector, whose only interest lies precisely in the profit and not in the development of a sector of excellence as is that of Italian agriculture. The added value of our agriculture, renowned all over the world, would be crushed by a flattening of production, losing those distinctive features that allow us to be a global reference point of the sector. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement is giving rise to a series of actions - which started from the conversation with the outgoing Ministers of Environment, Health and Agriculture, followed by questions and this motion - aimed at committing the Government to implement all the procedures necessary to allow Italy to use the safeguard clause which, as provided for by Directive 2001/18/EC, ratified in Italy by Legislative Decree No 224 of 2003, would prevent the cultivation of powerful transgenic maize. As Senator De Petris pointed out, eight countries in Europe - including France and Germany, which we generally like to draw inspiration from - have made use of Article 23 of the aforementioned directive on the safeguard clause. We would also like Italy to be added to this list and once again to be among the virtuous countries and those who safeguard the community. You always fill your mouth with fantastic support programs for small and medium-sized enterprises. Now we have the opportunity to take an important step: we have the opportunity not to pass the bench to logics of mere profit to the detriment of our social, cultural, civic and economic substratum, a ball that would go to total possession of those few subjects that can afford the onerousness of research and investments in the field of transgenic changes, which, through the cultivation all round, have the objective to become unique points of reference of the market. Our small and medium-sized enterprises are mainly agricultural ones: Let's remember that. The many supporters of GMO crops see them as an economic panacea that can lead to lower prices and avoid the subjection of crops to the seasons. Nothing more fake and paradoxical: seasonality characterizes the quality of Italian agricultural products and food prices currently vary due to the excessive passages due to the widespread distribution, to the disadvantage of an agriculture and a culture at zero kilometers. It is clear that if seed production falls under one or a few, cartels are encouraged which, in the long run, would lead to a commercial dependence such that the risk of rising prices would also be enormous, as well as the simultaneous strengthening of lobbying related to this type of practice. That is why we call for all of you to approve motion No 27, which commits the Government to prevent the cultivation of genetically modified organisms and, for the future, to impose their traceability in food products, where transgenic feed is used. We are in favour of research, but only for research that improves living together with the environment and not that it destroys it with consequent serious repercussions on the human being and on biodiversity. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u17	I call Senator Arrigoni to explain motion No 38.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from 1976 until now GMOs have gone from the state of purely technological possibilities to a serious reality. The scientific debate on the development of transgenic agriculture today has two protagonists: there are those who believe that GMOs do not pose any risk, while others say that the dangers arising from genetic manipulation are far greater than possible benefits. Regardless of the comparison between opposing opinions, the scientific data nevertheless shows that GMOs have altered reproductive genetic characteristics and that the scientific community, however, has not yet expressed a unique position on their effects on human health. The results of a study carried out by a French university demonstrate the toxicity of GMOs and, in addition to questioning the validity of research carried out so far by biotech companies, highlight significant problems in the methodology used to test the safety of transgenic products. Following these further opinions on the toxicity of GMOs and the ambiguity of the authorisation process, which appears to lack the minimum guarantees of safety and, therefore, contrary to the precautionary principle that the European Union puts in place to protect human health, it would be appropriate to prohibit the import of transgenic products and to suspend at all levels, throughout Europe, the issue of licences for the sowing of authorised GMOs and toxic results. Also recently the former Minister of Health Balduzzi, following the dossier prepared by the Council for Research and Experimentation in Agriculture, in conjunction with the former Minister of Agricultural Policies Mario Catania, asked the European Commission to carry out a complete re-evaluation of the Mon810 produced by Monsanto in the light of the latest guidelines and, in the meantime, urgently suspend the authorisation for the cultivation of Mon810 maize seed in our country and in the European Union. The line always held by the North League and the former Minister of Agriculture Zaia is to safeguard the identity and richness of our products, which are the basis of the success of the agri-food sector, and to ensure that GMOs do not pay attention to our identity agriculture, the cradle of biodiversity that we want to preserve. We want to stress that Italian agriculture is essentially multifunctional and carries out tasks that go beyond the simple production of food and raw materials, playing a role of integrated protection of the territory and protection of the landscape and traditional cultural aspects related to rural areas, whose valorization, thanks to the constant presence of the farmer, transforms marginality into opportunities. GMOs are, on the other hand, the symbol of an agriculture aimed not at food production and land conservation, but at the creation of income and control of world markets by a few multinationals. Given that the debate on the GMO issue is still open and that prudence is absolutely essential in the face of choices that profoundly change the context in which they are applied and impact not only on the balance of markets but above all on the health of citizens; given that Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 March 2001 on the deliberate release into the environment of GMOs provides for the possibility for individual Member States to declare the whole national territory free from GMOs through the application of the safeguard principle to which eight countries of Europe have applied; also considering that the Italian regions have often expressed their firm opposition to the introduction into our country of transgenic crops, we obviously ask the Government to undertake to promote intervention in the competent European fora so that the European Union suspends the granting of authorisations for sowing throughout the territory of the Union of authorised GMOs and toxic results and to have the prohibition of imports of transgenic products and to proceed with the exercise of the safeguard clause provided for in Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 March 2001 on the deliberate release into the GMO environment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] [[Minister De Girolamo talks with some senators. Comments from LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u19	Please don't distract the government from listening to the discussion. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] I call Senator Berger to explain motion No 40 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u20	Mr President, speaking as the first signatory to motion No 40 (text 2) I would like to give you an explanation of vote, not to repeat things that have already been said, and then reserve the right to speak in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u21	I call Senator Ruvolo to explain motion No 42.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u22	Mr President, before I present motion No 42, I would also like to make a few comments in order to try, above all, to find almost unanimous agreement on it. My starting point is as follows: let us say no to ideological contrasts and yes, instead, to understand how things are. In fact, I believe that it is a serious mistake to start with these oppositions. If we want to give strength to the Government, and especially to Europe, this House and the Italian Parliament will have to share a common line, in order to reason on a very complex issue. On the one hand, there are advocates, those who want GMOs, and on the other, those who support GMO nos. To begin this kind of reasoning we must say, with great serenity, but also with absolute punctuality, that for us the 195 agricultural excellences of this country are an absolute priority. We are certainly to safeguard the excellence of this country, the engine of the economy, the agro-food one in particular. In this motion we argue that research should not be abandoned and that it should not be cut aside, regardless of ideological facts alone and exclusively. With it we want to say that we are not: we want to discuss, reason and above all find - I repeat - a sharing. We want to find it not with statements of the kind: no to GMOs, to protect human health, the environment, safety and the economic and social model of the Italian agri-food sector. We are not, for a very simple reason: no one has the truth on his side. That is why we insist that there can be a broad sharing on this very complex issue. We therefore call on the House to reach a unanimous position: we want to find a point of meeting and understanding with all the forces present in this House, so that we can really give the government what it needs in order to be able to seriously reason - at last - on this complicated issue. I would therefore like to send out a signal, but also an appeal, to rediscover the reasons for a clear sharing with regard to this issue. For these reasons our illustration has been concise, even with respect to the few things you can say, if you do not think you are in favour or against regardless. We want to dialogue, without absolutely putting behind the door the technology that is advancing. I would like above all to remind on this occasion luminaries - from Professor Veronesi to the disappearance of Rita Levi-Montalcini - that they have always declared themselves in favour of ensuring that science, even with forces on nature - as Montalcini said exactly - can create the best conditions to understand whether these organisms really are harmful or not or whether this new progress and this new science serve humanity. With this wish, we ask the House for an overall reasoning and we also ask for a moment of understanding to be found, in the presence of the Minister, in order to be able to unanimously approve a joint motion. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u23	I declare the debate open. Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs De Petris for her expertise in this matter and for having written a very detailed and acceptable text on such an important subject. You see, Mr President, I come from a local experience in which, on my city council, on the city council where I learned how to make politics, if the city councilman didn't listen to you, time was interrupted. I think we should be listened to by the Minister when we are in the Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Misto-SEL Groups and Senator Zin]] So I would like my time to be counted from the moment I listen; perhaps it is a tear from the Rules of Procedure, but I believe that many of my colleagues will be able to share this suggestion. Thank you, Minister. Today we are talking about a fundamental issue, that of GMOs. Each of you should know what this is about, but in reality the technical definition of GMOs is about an organism where the genetic material, that is, DNA, has been modified differently from what happens in nature. Therefore, the application of modern biotechnology allows to transfer traits of genes selected from one organism to another, even from a non-related species, such as bacteria and plants. Talking about GMOs in this House means talking about protecting human health, protecting the environment, protecting the safety of the economic and social model of the Italian agri-food sector. It means talking about what we eat. I remind everyone of Jean-Marie Pelt's fantastic book, "The Garden of Frankenstein." I would remind you that it must be included in the protection of the environment - and it is quite clear in the motion to which we are signatories - especially the impossible coexistence between conventional agriculture, organic farming and transgenic agriculture. We are putting at risk, if we do not take immediate action by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture, the Italian agricultural model, which is based on quality production, products appreciated on the internal market but above all on the international market. I must not remind anyone here of the enormous success of the chain "Eataly," more abroad than in Italy, precisely because it speaks of niche and organic productions. The food industry, ladies and gentlemen, is the sector that resists the crisis best, it is the Italian agriculture sector that has produced results in terms of GDP above industry and even the economy as a whole; this sector also makes a huge contribution to employment. In 2012 Italian farms - I have the advantage of being owner of one of these, small and organic, because my profession is that of agricultural entrepreneur - produced in all 32 billion euros of GDP. So we must defend this sector, but we must also say thanks to particular subjects. We must say thanks to the Italian producers, to those producers who have chosen the protection of quality and traceability, in particular to the farmers who have chosen organic. They are all too often left alone against powerful international enemies, who are precisely the multinationals, who look to agriculture only in terms of commodity, which means lobbying, producing patented seeds, putting obstacles to independent research, being guided only by logical production-consumption-profit. This logic creates only one result: a poisoned food, manipulated that unfortunately is daily on our tables. How many times have you heard, even on the news, that that food has been withdrawn rather than another of that great chain? By turning an old proverb we should all say: spit on the plate where we are eating, spit on it. This is the only way to distance ourselves from this poor management of international agriculture. Returning to Jean-Marie Pelt, I remind you that he was a great teacher of botany and physiology and in his texts he explained the monstrosity of what is called biotech. Biotech means GMOs, building molecules that don't exist in nature. Pelt says it is an emergency that will have to be dealt with uncompromisingly and uncompromisingly, because the lobbies on this have great interests. Mr President, I am closing quickly. Allow me to make a note as an agricultural entrepreneur, which is what I am. Minister, it's almost springtime. If the press rumors are true, they say that in Lombardy, Veneto, Emilia and Friuli there are 52,000 bags of transgenic maize ready to be sown for as many as 32,000 hectares with EU Mon810 seeds, we run a very serious danger. Therefore, once and for all, together, the Ministries of the Environment and Agriculture apply, as has been done in most of Europe, the safeguard clause and the State Forestry Corps, to which my absolute praise goes for everything it does, to check, in agreement with the regions, the granaries and the places where these seeds are located, prohibiting their use throughout Italy. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed-SEL, M5S and LN-Aut Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many of you know that until a few months ago I had been the coordinator of the Councillors for Agriculture of the Italian Regions and Autonomous Provinces in the State-Regions Conference. Also because of this role, I am well aware of the question of the application in Italy of Directive 2001/18 of the European Union, which has always generated great doubts in me, dictated not by the preliminary refusal or an ideological attitude - as Senator Ruvolo said - due to the fear that always involves the lack of knowledge, but, on the contrary, by the full awareness, acquired and strengthened in recent years, of continuous comparisons between the regions and governments with respect to the wider framework of the agricultural issues that characterize our territories. These are issues that always look at the indisputable centrality of the national agri-food system, and not only for the extraordinary quality of its productions, confirmed by the growth in counter-trend of the exports of our agricultural excellences, but also put to the test by a continuous competition with the imported products and by a hard fight against commercial fraud, which erode important shares of value to our companies, which despite everything continue to ensure the employment of the sector. The centrality of the national agri-food system is also due to the strategic role played by agriculture in the management of the territory because it strengthens its resistance to the risks to which it is constantly exposed, consolidating also its landscape and environmental value, as well as the social and identity role through the protection and protection of typical productions and recognised quality marks, biodiversity and agro-food traditions, today possible real engine of development of rural spaces. Despite the fact that agricultural policy, among those of the Community, is absolutely the most strictly regulated, State action has often been very lacking, especially in the capacity to produce effective and synergistic legislative and guidance actions with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, to which - as is well known - direct competence on agricultural matters is attributed. Unmistakable proof of this absence is the deliberate choice not to solve the problem of GMO crops on Italian farms, addressed by the regions on several occasions, starting from the moment it became clear that the path of coexistence between GMOs and traditional crops was not the right one, it was not possible to pursue. It is not possible to live with the transgenic variety; our thousand and delicate agricultural territories, our weak environmental balance do not allow us. The right path was immediately identified by the Regions, but also by a large part of the scientific community, in safeguarding the planetary specificity of Italian agriculture, the quality and specificity of its products, which sees the preservation and growth of an incredible identity value in every market and in every continent. Precisely for these reasons, the Regions have immediately and always declared unanimously (from this point of view it is difficult to imagine today to see the signature of representatives of the Region who until a few months ago, together with me, voted for the safeguard clause) their firm opposition to the introduction of transgenic crops in Italy, placing as a central theme the work on the amendment of Directive 2001/18/EC, on the possibility for Member States to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of GMOs on their territory. As pointed out in motion No 19, which sees me as a signatory together with other colleagues and which sees as the first signatory Mrs De Petris, the Conference of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces has unanimously approved an agenda with which the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy commits, in the interest of the approval of this proposal for amendment, to proceed with the exercise of the safeguard clause, pursuant to Article 23 of Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 March 2001; a safeguard clause which has already been activated by at least eight other European States. This possibility is expressly provided for in Directive 2001/18/EC with regard to the placing on the market of GMOs, but also with regard to the deliberate release of GMOs into the environment. The position of the regions and autonomous provinces of absolute opposition to the authorisation of the cultivation of GMOs on the national territory was immediately unanimous, without distinction, without any hesitation. Left, Ecology and Freedom has always been on this same position, not for a preliminary or ideological question, but because it is deeply convinced that, in addition to the inevitable principle of caution and precaution towards the agricultural and environmental context of our territory, GMO crops do not serve our agriculture: they impact negatively with its biodiversity, disintegrate with deadly effects our specificity, a fundamental element of identity and recognizability of our productions abroad. This has nothing to do with research, we reject this taboo: the issue of research with the ban on GMO crops is a taboo that can no longer be discussed in such authoritative forums. It is therefore necessary, because it is a vital issue, that with the same conviction Parliament and the Government also choose the direction of defending the Italian model of agriculture based on typicality, quality, diversity and eco-sustainability. In this sense, Italy must continue to be a GMO-free country. The national authorities responsible, the ministries of the environment, agricultural policies and health, may block the entry into their territory of transgenic products considered dangerous. It is therefore time for the Minister for the Environment to put the issue in the Community in the clearest terms, through the exercise of the safeguard clause for Italy in the forms provided for by the legislation, on the basis of the full scientific and technical documentation already available. I think we can't wait any longer. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and SCpI Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u27	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u28	Mr President, I confess that I am absolutely ignorant about this and I would like to understand it better. I have heard so many speeches from people who have certainly documented themselves on the subject, but I am a little impressed by the fact that a person I value very much and I have known for many years, Professor Veronesi, who has also played important political roles, has always publicly said that GMOs are not so harmful and that, indeed, they can probably facilitate certain crops. I say this in an absolutely secular spirit, I have no preconceived position, but I think that Professor Veronesi's arguments should be contradicted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u29	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u30	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say at once that GMO maize comes from the modification of the DNA of a maize plant, in which a gene of a bacterium (the bacillus thuringiensis, which codifies the CrylA protein) has been inserted, which makes it resistant to the attack of a larva of the pyralid. Pyralide is the main phytophagus insect of corn. The erosions of the carioxides carried out by the larvae favor the development of toxigenic fungi. The control of the field pyralide thus reduces the risk of development of these fungi, resulting in lower levels of mycotoxins, in particular of fumonisins. These toxins can be harmful, causing defects in the development of the neural tube in man and, by some authors, have been associated with esophagus cancer. I wanted to be precise on this point, because resistance to the attack of the pyralide is an argument that justifies the need to produce this corn. Actually, it's not like that. In fact, the biological fight against the pyralide is successful with the use of preparations based on other bacilli, which are launched in the field following precisely the criteria of the biological control, with the flooding method, with parasite eggs, or by placing chick chicks of trichogramma madis placed in special containers on the plants in the field. Moreover, with crop rotation, as in past agriculture, the soil remains fertile, requiring less fertilizer consumption. This production method in itself reduces the attack of insects. On the other hand, a monoculture, largely used to produce energy that of bio no longer has anything, determines these harmful results. Even the pretext of changing the genome of plants to reduce costs does not correspond to the truth; in fact the costs of these methods (i.e. biological control) including labour do not differ much from the other treatments and their results are very satisfactory, especially when they are put into practice by expert hands. Are these GMOs dangerous to humans? To this question it is very difficult to give a certain answer. EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority, annually monitors the sector's studies and, above all, analyses the data presented by the manufacturer. Up to now, it does not reveal particular problematicities, limiting itself to recommendations, while independent experts raise problems both on the quality of data and on the work of researchers who have produced scientific works, which appear to be in clear conflict of interests. Moreover, animal models are not always superimposed on our species. For example, why does fumonisin previously mentioned in the horse cause leukoencephalomalacia, acute pulmonary oedema in the pig, and hepatotoxicity in the rat? At this point I would like to add the complexity of recent studies (in particular I am referring to epigenetics), not yet applied in these situations. Now we know that environmental contaminants, both chemical and genetic, can interfere with our DNA, especially in particular moments of our lives, such as childhood and senescence, causing serious damage that is materialized both in neoplastic diseases and in degenerative diseases and fetal malformations. In addition, we know that variations in cellular DNA take time, sometimes years, to highlight biological damage, which explains the variability of literature data, which are depending on the duration of the experiment and in relation to the animal model. Even the importance that some people give GMOs for increasing productivity in order to reduce hunger in the world does not correspond to the truth: since 1996, when the first GMOs were sown for marketing, although the total agricultural area has increased by about 6%, there has been no reduction in world hunger. I would like to add that the new, more productive and resistant types of plants selected, even if not harmful in themselves, may not be tolerated by people. Although this is not specifically the case, the selection of fruits with very high amounts of gluten, which favors the bakery, has led many individuals predisposed to become celiac, with increased health costs and a worse quality of life. In this regard, I would like to remind you that we have very valuable qualities of ancient seeds - especially Sicilians - characterized by a very low gluten content. This is the real search. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This reasoning allows me to point out that Italy is characterized by a unique food biodiversity in the world and how our products are appreciated abroad (export in this sector is growing). So, why do we approve? Even the problem of contamination between GMOs and native varieties should not be excluded: even if it seems to be enough a few dozen meters to cancel the mixing of DNA, it should not be underestimated. I wonder how it is possible to confine these productions in order to avoid the dispersion of genetic material, through pollen, in the air, in water and in the soil. We must also consider that on Monday 6 May the European Commission adopted a proposal for a law which gives ample scope to market patented plants without restrictions. The latter, of course, spread over all fields, without distinction. The text of the law is done in this way: the farmer whose field has been polluted will have to pay a fine to the industry, as if he had stolen the seeds, while it is the latter who should be asked to answer for the decontamination of the fields of the peasants. All the more serious, because most of these patented plants are hidden OMGs. So, in addition to the damage, he mocks her. Multinationals with their GMO seed pollute neighbouring fields and farmers have to pay for expensive DNA sequencing tests to rule out contamination. If they find themselves contaminated, they have to pay the royalties. I therefore call for the precautionary principle to be protected as far as possible and for the procedure to be initiated for the adoption of the safeguard clause. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Ultimately, GMOs are not indispensable to increase production, they have not reduced hunger in the world, they reduce biodiversity, they impoverish Italian agriculture, they further reduce the sovereignty and food security of our country, they make farmers dependent on multinationals and they are potentially harmful to our health. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] So, why authorize them? As usual, in Italy the losses are socialized and someone capitalizes profits. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I should like to ask you to allow me to attach my written speech to the report of today's sitting. I had decided to make a speech prepared in writing, but listening to the speeches made by my fellow Members in this House led me to make some thoughts which, in my opinion, could be useful for all of us. I believe, in fact, that within this House, regardless of individual positions, each of us must make the interest of the community, the interests of the country, the interest of the living being at 360 degrees, in a particular way of the human being.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u33	Senator Scilipoti, the Presidency authorizes you to leave your speech to the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u34	SCILIPOTI (PdL). Mr President, I have heard of safeguard rules: it is true that there are safeguard rules, but there is also a system to ensure that a small quantity of product is not controlled through labelling. Indeed, when the genetically modified product content is less than 1%, i.e. from zero to 0.9%, there is no obligation to report it on the label. This is a very risky fact, because 0.99% of the genetically modified product, a quantity close to 1%, could cause very serious damage to the human body. I am pleased that some of the PDL's colleagues have taken a position and taken a reflection against my position. I am pleased that we can also address this issue in this House by trying to reflect together and understand well what GMOs mean by first, second or third generation. I heard a colleague talking about Professor Veronesi, perhaps referring to third-generation GMOs, when it is not the multinationals that are experimenting on the genome but it is the public institutions that make changes that serve for the welfare of the community and not for the exclusive well-being of certain groups. When we talk about second-generation GMOs, we talk about research in the field of pharmaceutical products, that is, those medicines that should solve our problems. When we talk about first generation, we talk about modified plants which, theoretically, should not give any kind of problem and which, instead, in 99 percent of cases, give very serious problems. Then we have to reflect: when there is a genetically modified vegetable, is it modified only and exclusively through the crossing with another vegetable or is it, as happens many times, crossed with an animal gene? And if this were to be the case - and this is the case - what is the damage that could result to health a mixture, as it were, a hybrid between the plant and the animal? It could cause harm to those who are unaware of it. I explain: many times we use tomatoes that have been genetically modified with fish genes; many times we use potatoes modified with chicken genes and then many of our friends who are not carnivores but vegetarians are automatically found to use products derived from animals. But that is not the risk, ladies and gentlemen: the risk is that those products could create reactions. Some say they are minimal allergic reactions. That's not true! The allergic reaction may be minimal, but it may also result in an asthmatic crisis leading to almost immediate death within five or six minutes. But there is another reflection, dear friends, that we must do. I've heard of health and research. But what were the studies on GMOs? The ones done on mice only and exclusively for sixty days? But are the effects of a GMO seen immediately or seen in the long run, i.e. after one, two, three, four or five years? And what are the changes that can produce a toxin of GMO origin within the human body? The change, dear friends, is the acceleration of the cell's growth rate. The change, dear friends, is the alteration of the cell membrane, which all students of the faculty of medicine and doctors know to be the precursor of degenerative diseases and neoplastic diseases. If, then, what we say in this House is not just words to end a debate in itself, but words heard from the heart, because through scientific documentation it has been demonstrated what we say, let us take an example and listen to those who have more competence than we do and, transversally, from right to left, let us do the interests of the country and in general of the human being. It is not conceivable to sponsor products that put human life at risk. It is not conceivable to sponsor products that could create the destruction of humanity. Someone might say: Maybe this Scilipoti is using these big words, big words, to scare us... No! SCILIPOTI (PdL). No, it is reality: it is the reality that some scientists highlight daily, but that many do not listen. I would like to give another thought to what I have heard here about Italian agricultural products and foodstuffs. I was a doctor and, like many colleagues, we used alpha-tocoferil acetate, beta-carotene, and axeroftol palmitate to prevent degenerative diseases. These substances were obtained not from the galenic, but from the natural product: that is to say the famous peanuts, the almonds and nuts we eat, the orange juice and some other substance that in nature is found in great quantity. If these substances were genetically modified, we could use alpha-tocopheryl acetate, beta-carotene and axerophthal palmitate (i.e. peanuts, almonds and walnuts) to prevent neoplastic pathologies, but at the same time we would create the conditions of genetic alteration. We would therefore create the conditions to produce toxins and create a condition of intoxication within an organism that we slowly want to detoxify: a disaster for the cell, also in view of the consequent establishment of a disease within the organism. Another thing: I heard a colleague talking about Sicily, about that farmer who at the end of the year takes that tomato, leaves it - let me use a dialectal term siculo - on the cane to dry in the sun, to pick that seed, to put it in the ground and pull out a map and, the following year, to be able to reuse it at 360 degrees. This with GMO products will no longer be possible, because they are sterile products, i.e. they do not procreate, serve only and exclusively to control the economy of the world and only to enslave the human population, because it is no longer possible to do what the farmer did a few years ago. Another thought must be made, dear President: we are concerned about the transgenic maize that could be planted from here to a few months, but how many products are present in the fruit and vegetable markets that are genetically modified without any sign that informs the citizen that that is a modified substance or vegetable? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Minister must then intervene, not only to prevent this, but also to create the conditions for a cartel to be displayed in supermarkets to warn that a given product comes from a country that uses GMOs. [[Applause from the PDL, PD, M5S and LN-Aut groups]] Only in this way, dear Minister, can we relaunch agriculture and our country, saying that in it we do not use the GMO, we do not commercialize it and that we are proud of our choice. Only in this way will we be able to continue to give strength to those farmers and to that agri-food supply chain that is now at the top of the world, because the only sector that has not seen a crisis in Italy is agri-food.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u35	Please conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u36	SCILIPOTI (PdL). Mr President, I would like to end by asking the House to reflect across the board, without flags and shirts, in order to approve together something, such as a motion, in which we not only decide not to use those seeds, but we strongly affirm that our country must be exempt from the use of genetically modified products; the Minister will have to intervene to ensure that the products on the fruit market have a label that specifies the country of origin, through which we can identify whether that country is a user of GMO products. [[Applause from the PdL, M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u37	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the rivers of demagogy and, in some ways, even healthy ignorance of genetics have pervaded this House for an hour now. I think that before we talk about some scientifically preponderant aspects, which concern the new discipline of biotechnology and genetics applied in the food field, we should have the humility to avoid an epidermal acquisition; in fact, it is customary to say that the most deteriorating form of learning is what we hear. I would just like to make a few comments. First of all, it is true that world hunger has not been eradicated by GMOs, but this has happened because there are strong and demagogic resistance to the massive use of GMOs. Therefore, the comparison just used by my colleague from the M5S Group is completely illogical because, if GMOs were used in quantity and in the manner that modern food industry is able to ensure, hunger in the world would be eradicated. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Therefore, we cannot make the reasoning to the contrary. Furthermore, as a biologist, I would like to point out that genetic modification is one of the fields of intervention for the treatment of cancer; also in that case bacterial or viral vehicles are used to hit at source the genetic modification that is the cause of cancer. Also in that case, among other things, there is a hybridization between species that are not of the same nature. Finally, Mr President, I would like to point out that the use of plant protection products and pesticides is one of the first causes of cancer induction and allergies referred to earlier by Senator Scilipoti. I conclude by recalling what the great scientist Einstein said: whoever apes the will of the gods and wants to have a predictive idea of science will be overwhelmed by the laughter of the gods themselves. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u39	She is registered to speak Senator Pignedoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as several Members have pointed out, there are many complex issues relating to GMOs; many questions remain open, as can be seen from the very different positions that have emerged. As far as the main issue, namely GMOs-health, is concerned, I would stress that at present research into the safety of genetically modified organisms has not actually revealed any proven health risks, but it is also true that there are no epidemiological studies that have examined samples on a significant scale on people using GMOs. The areas of doubt - as my colleague Mr Gaetti pointed out - also remain here. Then there is the GMO-impact issue on the ecosystem. In this respect, several studies carried out on the impact of GMO crops have shown the negative effects of the most widespread genetic changes in ecosystems introduced in cultivated plants, such as insect resistance (it has been well defined), resistance to herbicides, the reduction of soil microflora and fauna associated with the effect of residues of GMO biomass contained in the gene product acting as pesticide. What we can say, apart from individual studies, is that no researcher or scientist in the world has a proven idea of the extent and impact that genetically modified plants will have on biodiversity on a global scale. That is why I share the need, at this historic stage, to adhere to the precautionary principle, which several European countries have been inspired by, countries which have already applied the safeguard clause (such as France, Germany, Luxembourg, Austria, Hungary, Greece, Bulgaria and Poland): the same one for which we are here today asking the Italian Government to commit itself to taking precautionary measures to prevent transgenic cultivation. We ask for caution, caution, greater knowledge, but not in a logic of closure or obscurantism, as some mentioned. We are not talking about an ideological antagonism to GMOs. All the sciences that today deal with complex systems, i.e. those given by interference of so many natural dimensions and technological processes, tell us that the ability to make forecasts and control the effects of their applications is difficult. High levels of unpredictability remain. Moreover, non-predictability is the element that has moved the debate on the non-applicability of co-existence rules, on the impossibility of controlling the elements capable of transporting or blocking pollen and seeds and, therefore (as reported by various motions presented by the various parliamentary groups today), on the impossibility of blocking the escape of transgenics into the environment even at very high distances, going to compromise traditional or biological crops irreversibly. There is the question where the GMO - as has been said - would guarantee greater yields and, therefore, a response to hunger in the world. More than one opinion I would say that it is a fact that in the areas of the world where there is more liberality towards GMOs there has not been a decrease in the problem of food supply, and I do not believe that the issue is linked only to how much strength and determination they have been employed. The world's hunger balance has worsened. Nor can we say that the farmers of the South of the world have benefited from the use of these productions. Instead, we know that the whole Latin American area and substantial areas of Africa have been subjected to Monsanto's choices, which every year sells new seeds to farmers. And we are on the question of self-protection of patents: so, by preventing second generation seeds from germinating, farmers are forced to buy them back, as they can no longer use their own seeds. It is no small matter, because this means having the world monopoly of seeds, and therefore also the key elements of food. I'm opening a brief parenthesis. I believe and hope that this problem will be addressed in Expo 2015. An Expo entitled "Feeding the planet" cannot escape this theme. I hope that the Government, which, among other things, has included the 2015 World Meeting among its policy points, among its priorities, will pay attention to it. This is not irrelevant as it poses the problem of seeds as private or collective property. Today, the compulsory registration of seeds makes it impossible for millions of small farmers in the world to cultivate their diversity, forcing them to depend on the multinationals of seeds. I believe that the GMO solution to solving the problem of food shortages is a shortcut without prospects that is useful to a few people, who do not solve the problem of supply in a structural way. We need a view that practical agricultural incentives to ensure that every country can produce the right without the exploitation of people and impoverishment of the land. Of course, the food issue in anticipation of the exponential demographic increase will be the question of the century. And our children will probably be forced to face it in the course of their lives. The issue of the relationship between crops and production yields will have to be addressed, and it will not be just a continuity of practices aimed at a quantitative stress of production. The challenge is much more complex: more products, less pollution; more production efficiency, less chemistry; more food, more natural production systems, more protection of varietal wealth, more agriculture of clean precision, less massification. This is also a search that has never really started. But in order to start, we need research into the agricultural sector, a patent system not guided or monopolized by the international private system: we need a centrality of public research, not exclusively public research, but certainly strong and independent. Finally, I would like to talk about the relationship between GMOs and the Italian agricultural system. Italian agriculture, made in Italy, plays its attraction on food security and strong distinctiveness. We are not known in the world for the intense productions or for the commodities, and this typicality is not the result of a bucolic-poetic vision, but of a strategy of economic character, a precise choice on the factors of competitiveness on which our country can play. Therefore, even the GMO is placed within a perspective of a certain type of development, of a certain type of commercial competition: development and food security, development and environmental security. A position, which the Regions unanimously reiterated, as Senator Stefano said, was expressed by the Ministers for Agriculture, the Environment and Health of the last legislature. It is now Parliament's turn, and I hope that it will be able to express a unanimous and shared position. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u41	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask her to give her an opinion on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u42	Mr President, Senators, I have listened very carefully to the debate in this House, but I have read more carefully the premises for the motions that have been tabled. It seems to me that, after all, sensitivity on the subject is the same, and is focused above all on the need for Italian agriculture to stand out for excellence and present itself on the markets for the quality of products and not for quantity. Therefore, in the absence of prejudices and making a wide distinction between what is research and what is use of GMOs, it is clear that there are no authorised GMO crops in our country. The only request for authorisation, rejected in the past, came from Monsanto. I listened to the senators and senators. I have no ideological prejudice to the safeguard clause. I must point out, however, that Mr Balduzzi's request still did not relate to this clause, but to the so-called emergency measures. There is no ideological opposition on my part, I repeat, but it is necessary to safeguard all legal conditions in agreement with the Minister of the Environment (as some have rightly mentioned) and with the Minister of Health. It seems to me, in any case, that there is a sharing on the subject. In this regard, I would also like to reassure Senator Cirinna - it seems to me that she was, and I apologise if not, but, coming from the House, I still find it difficult to remember the name of everyone - who, if I am not mistaken, referred to an alarm regarding the presence of genetically modified seeds on which the Ministry of Agriculture has already denounced the judicial authority, asking the Carabinieri and the Forestry Guard to pay the utmost attention. This happened six months ago: so there is already an alert regarding the presence of seeds of this nature, a problem that the Ministry is paying particular attention to. I repeat, since the direction of this House seems to me to be unanimous, I think it would be a good signal if the five motions were to be incorporated into a single text, demonstrating a shared position of this House on such an important subject. As I have already said, in fact, Italy in this period, but especially in the years that will follow, we play a very important game in agriculture; game that is entirely based on Made in Italy, healthy eating, transparency, labelling, an agri-food that protects not only the environment and our lands, but also our farmers and, therefore, the excellences of Made in Italy. Therefore, a postponement of the debate on motions until next week, which is compatible with the work of the House, Mr President - it is not up to me to say so - in order to find a single position on such an important subject would be a good signal for the agricultural world and, above all, a demonstration of respect for the many farmers who, with great difficulty, are involved in farming - which is also a political act - in this country. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u45	Formigoni (PdL). Mr President, I believe that the Minister's invitation should be welcomed in his positivity. If the House agrees, we could work at certain times to try to get to the drafting - I am optimistic about this - of a united motion or as convergent as possible, in order to give that strong signal to the agricultural world and to all the Italian public opinion about which the Minister himself spoke. It would probably be useful to set a certain and very close limit to complete our attempt. In the calendar of proceedings of this House which you have just read, Mr President, this item could be placed on the agenda, or at the beginning of the week, before the examination of the measure in the field of health or, if necessary, at the end of its examination, in any case next week. If the House agrees, it would be reasonable to make this attempt, which I think can be successful.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u48	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, very clearly, I say that we are opposed to the proposal for a postponement, for a very simple reason. I understand the Minister's efforts, but I must point out that four motions are identical in the final arrangement, while the motion tabled by President Formigoni has a mechanism which I consider to be totally incompatible with the request for the adoption of the safeguard clause. For God's sake, everyone can rethink it, but for intellectual honesty we must not say that we are all in agreement. There are different positions, as is normal and as we have seen in the debates in recent years on this subject. Therefore, I think that the agricultural way is once and for all expecting a clear, clear decision, and for this reason we cannot have access, as far as we are concerned, to the request for postponement, because this may certainly not lead to a joint motion, since this work, if there had been this will, could have been done even immediately today. Therefore, I am unable to accept the proposal for referral made by Senator Formigoni. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u51	RUTA (PD). Mr President, I simply wish to say that we support the request for referral back. I think it is worth trying to reach unanimous agreement in this House on such an important and decisive subject as the one we are considering. I also believe, after the general debate, that there is the possibility, if no agreement is reached, of putting to the vote the motion put forward by my colleagues. If, on the contrary, agreement were to be reached at certain times, this would be a very satisfying element for us.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u54	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, we in the Five Star Movement are opposed to the request for postponement. There are opposing positions here. We do not believe that a one-week delay will help us to find a common point on this issue. We have presented our motion. We therefore express our opposition to the request for referral back. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u57	IN MAY (SPI). Mr President, I listened to Senator De Petris' speech. He doesn't answer completely that all the motions presented have the same device. The motion of which Senator De Petris is first signatory calls for the precautionary measure provided for in Article 34 of the EC Regulation, while most of the others refer to Article 23 of Directive 2001/18/EC. I therefore believe that there are also differences in the demands made in the various motions. It is true that one could come to a single thought together within the Committee on Agriculture. Therefore, Civic Choice accepts the request for referral in order to verify the possibility of reaching a single motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u58	Since there are no other senators asking to speak, on the basis of the request for referral by the Government, in the light of the speeches made, we must put to the vote, precisely because there is no unanimity, the proposal that the continuation of the examination of motions be postponed, as requested, to the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 21 May, without prejudice, of course, to the priority of the examination of the decree-law of impending expiry in the field of health, if amended, if transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies and examined by the competent Commission. Otherwise, the discussion of motions would resume next week, at the end of the examination of that decree-law. On this proposal we shall proceed to the vote by show of hands. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] The Rules of Procedure require that the vote be taken by show of hands [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] You may request a quorum check, but the Rules of Procedure provide that the request for suspension shall be put to the vote by show of hands. It will then be the task of the Secretary Senators to verify correspondence: this is what the Rules of Procedure provide. In addition, it is possible to make the counter-test, to give the possibility to verify the result. There's no alternative. I put to the vote the proposal to postpone the discussion of motions in title, made by the representative of the Government. It's approved. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. (Some senators vote by show of hands.) I would remind you that in order to make the counter-test you must insert the card into the voting system. It's approved. I would therefore like to refer to the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group VOICES FROM M5S GROUP BANKS]] : Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u61	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, it seems to me that the result is clear. But I noticed that during the counter-test the door was open, and it is not possible to keep the doors open during the counter-test. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] However, I would like to add that the problem of GMOs was born this night, so we need to think about five more days. What a majority we have! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u64	PADUA (PD). Mr President, I shall be speaking for a few minutes - although the House is unfortunately right, or perhaps unfairly, careless - for a very serious reason. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, who's to talk to? Come on out. PADUA (PD). I ask the attention of the Assembly for an event that is still serious, very serious, that affects our country. Unfortunately, there are so many bad news and so often we hear that they may slip on us: but this should not happen in this House, which has a huge responsibility towards a country that is waiting for answers. Vittoria is one of the cities of my province (Ragusa), one of the richest and largest cities of the Region, which has allowed for many years economic development giving an impression of wealth to the whole island for a long time. It has now plunged into a dramatic, economic, but also social crisis, which leads to death or an attempt to die. Well, yesterday, a 60-year-old man, who worked his whole life, a construction man who couldn't find a job, set himself on fire, because yesterday someone, for a debt of 10,000 euros that he couldn't return to the bank, was going to foreclose and take his home. And he, not resisting shame and pain, for a house that he built with all the work of his life, set himself on fire, involving his wife, two policemen who were trying to stop him and also his daughter, who, fortunately, did not get seriously injured. Now they're hospitalized at the Great Weapons Center in Catania. 18.13 (Follow Padua). I believe that these tragedies should make us all suffer and move together, because, dear friends, dear colleagues who are in here, so many of us - I first - have voted to trust this Government. I hope you don't waste any more time. I hope everyone gets worked up. I take advantage of the presence of the Minister (who I have tried to contact in these two days and I hope to have the opportunity to speak to you very soon), to talk about the dramatic situation that that city lives, like many others of our country. I had sent from the farmers, who are the connective tissue and the support of that reality, to have a conversation with you, Madam Minister, precisely because from the agriculture and crisis of this sector that we have talked about so much tonight comes the crisis of the whole community. Well, this is yet another case. I really hope that this is the last time that we have to talk about this in this House or in other institutional fora. Please, let's do this. We don't become impervious to the pain that surrounds us all. We often get lost in words, but these are no longer enough. People are watching us; citizens and citizens are waiting for answers which, as we saw yesterday, cannot be postponed. [[Applause from the PD, SCP, M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u67	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, yesterday, Senator Romani and Senator Zanda discussed the interpretation to be attributed to the story that was consumed in Brescia with the presence of Senator Berlusconi. Both have used words that I judge measured in tones and very quiet in merit. So I do not want to take up this issue or in any way feed controversy. However, I think it is appropriate that Minister Alfano, Minister for the Interior and Vice President of the Council of Ministers (who is also present in Brescia, and I do not intend to open any assessment and discussion about this presence), should question the role played by those responsible for public order in my city in the management of the square which saw the presence of opposing realities. The Minister wonders in particular about the role of the prefect who, as is well known, is responsible for the table which plans the initiatives for the protection of security and public order. Yesterday an authoritative exponent of the People of Freedom who - alas! - no longer sits in Parliament, former Undersecretary Saglia, who I consider to be extremely well-balanced and particularly active, has had words which also cause me to question myself. They are in fact words spoken by an absolutely reflective person, extremely measured in the modes of communication. Well, former Undersecretary Saglia has stated that he does not intend to give his personal solidarity to those who manage and have managed public order on that occasion. Well, the Prefect of Brescia is not new to accidents that characterized his presence in my city. I recall the management of the case of the so-called Adro's suns, or the stabbed partisanry in favour of a party that marked its work. A work that on more than one occasion has been protected by the absolutely responsible and careful presence of quaestors such as Dr. Montemagno or Dr. Carluccio. Well, I think the Minister needs to question himself in order to make assessments of the behaviour and the actions of government representatives who have allowed the city to be discredited for an affair that has seen disputes that have gone beyond the legitimate divergence of political assessments. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u70	FAVERO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to present a situation which is taking place in my own territory, but which, by oil, could undoubtedly be found in neighbouring territories. I am referring to mobility problems linked to the right to study. You may wonder why there is such a connection. The Piedmont Region, with a DGR, decided to drastically cut transfers for local public transport. In fact, during the three-year period 2013-2015, the amounts made available for public transport by road and rail to Piedmont Provinces and Municipalities will be reduced by 16.21 per cent. The cuts planned by the Regional Council are also spoiled by a political bias, but also territorial, which very much damages the territory in which I live and the Province of Alexandria. In 2013, in fact, the Province of Biella will be cut by 34 percent, overall for 1 and a half million euros. This will cause serious problems in terms of work, as it is estimated that 90 workers will lose their jobs, but even more will lose their resources, compared with an average of 16.35 percent in Piedmontese Provinces. In the three-year period, the city of Biella, which is the capital city, will lose 66 percent of its resources. It is difficult for us to understand the reasons, reasons and criteria adopted by the Junta to justify such differentiated cuts in Piedmontese provinces. They will have a huge impact on student transport, as 85% of local public transport is in favour of students, distributed in four poles: Biella, Cossato, Trivero and Cavaglià. Our territory is for a third mountain and a third hill and half of the population resides in municipalities of mountain communities. What is decided will prejudice the possibility for about 6,000 students to reach schools. The right to study is enshrined in the Constitution, so we will put a question to the relevant ministers to give us answers on this. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u71	The question will be forwarded to the relevant government authorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u74	BERTUZZI (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry to answer Question 3 00012, which we filed on 27 March. An interpretative rule was adopted by the Revenue Agency which, in fact, extended outside the agricultural sector certain verification obligations for all contractors and subcontractors of the regularity of contributions and tax payments to the entities to which the service contract is awarded. The extension contained in this circular of the Agency's revenue in fact provides for sanctions ranging from 5,000 to 200,000 euros and also becomes applicable to contracts of a few hundred euros drawn up by the agricultural companies when they entrust jobs within their own companies companies. This situation is extremely dangerous and leads to an increase in administrative costs for small businesses, which are certainly not bearable and do not even make sense. It would be sufficient, in short, for the Ministry of the Economy to work to withdraw this circular issued by the Agency of Revenues to bring back within the framework of the great works of the building sector the norm previewed against the escape and the circumvention. To date this is creating a lot of fibrillation in the agricultural sector and also in that of small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u77	THE COURT (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 17 May the International Day against Homophobia is celebrated in most parts of the world: to a large extent, I said, certainly not all over the world, since in 70 countries homosexuality is still considered a crime and punished with sanctions, which in some countries come to the death penalty. The resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 18 January 2006, with a large majority, consisting of the left, liberal and popular, defined homophobia as an irrational fear and aversion towards homosexuality and against lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transsexuals, and declared it assimilable to racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, sexism. The European Parliament itself, in its resolution on homophobia of 2007, called on 17 May each year as an International Day against Homophobia, thus giving an institutional role to that anniversary. According to the Annual Report on Homophobia in Italy, just published by Arcigay, in 2012 there were seven murders following homophobic or transphobic attacks and numerous acts of verbal and physical violence. It is the tip of the iceberg of a pervasive and widespread phenomenon of discrimination in the workplace, psychological violence, attitudes of contempt, social isolation, blackmail and extortion, which unfortunately affects in a more cruel way the less defended people, that is, adolescents, as many cases of news show. The media gave ample space to the tragic story of the boy with pink pants, the fifteen-year-old Roman mocked by his companions for his way of dress, who one afternoon last November chose to hang himself, tired of being insulted and considered inadequate. Fortunately, instead, they decided to act, denouncing the episodes of homophobia, other adolescents, in Arezzo, Rome, Ischia, Gorizia and in many other parts of the country: a country in which there is, unlike in the rest of Europe, a law against homophobia. Let us ensure that this Parliament can heal this distance which anachronistically separates us from the Europe of rights. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u78	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-22.ana.u79	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 16 May, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.28 a.m.
