ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. Since this is the first vote, the Presidency will take into account the fact that the senators still have to withdraw their cards. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u8	The next item is the resolution on the opinion of the 1st standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for draft law No 1188: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 133 of 30 November 2013 laying down urgent provisions concerning the IMU, the sale of public buildings and the Banca d'Italia" I call the President of the 1st Commission, Senator Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u9	Mr President, as a result of yesterday's vote in the Commission, the favourable opinion on the conditions of necessity and urgency for this measure was not adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u10	I would remind you that you will be able to speak no more than one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we believe that Decree-Law No 133 - and therefore the corresponding bill of conversion - contains urgent provisions concerning the IMU, the alienation of public buildings and the Bank of Italy do not have the conditions of constitutionality. As far as IMU is concerned, I remember a few things. Article 53 of the Constitution reads as follows: All are required to contribute to public expenditure on account of their contribution capacity. The tax system shall be informed of criteria of progressiveness. The suspension of the second installment of the IMU for all taxpayers, owners of the first house, in linear form, without any connection with the real economic values underlying the tax itself and detached from the contribution capacity of the citizen, clearly violates this fundamental principle. Moreover, the principle of equity in the contribution system laid down in the second paragraph of Article 53 itself, according to which the tax burden must gradually increase more than proportional, is completely absent in the method of calculating the levy. The rigidity inherent in the definition of the tax, which removes the capital value from the contribution capacity of the individual owner, providing for a single and non-progressive rate, in fact establishes a disparity between citizens, thus violating Article 3 of the Constitution on the principle of equality of citizens themselves. This decree, suspending the tribute to all taxpayers who own the first house, actually endorses this inequality in violation of Article 3 and the second paragraph of Article 53 of the Constitution, as more than half of the IMU first house revenue comes from the three highest steps on the scale of distribution, i.e. from those who earn the most. Therefore, a pure and simple abolition of the IMU on the first house could reduce the tax burden for a part of families not well off, but would certainly benefit more than proportionally the wealthiest ones. As regards the rules relating to the Bank of Italy, we note the incongruity of an approach to measures to suspend or abolish the payment of a fee for citizens taxpayers who own first residence and we do not see an extraordinary case of necessity and urgency that, in accordance with Article 77 of the Constitution, can justify the issuing of a decree-law. In fact, in the report to the measure it is stated that: The central objective of the intervention is to ensure a wide distribution among the participants of the shares representing a public interest asset. It could therefore be possible for Parliament to address these important issues in a timely manner, appropriate to a more thoughtful assessment of all the issues related to it, since, as supported by the same explanatory report of the measure, it is a rule of order which I would define as historical and which completely amends the rules approved in 2005. We therefore believe that it would be necessary to delete the rules relating to the Bank of Italy, providing for them the procedure laid down in Article 72 of the Constitution for ordinary draft laws. We note that, without being preceded by the slightest political debate, a historical reform of the ownership and governance of the Bank of Italy was carried out by decree. While there is an endless debate about how to tax the first house, no one is concerned about the fact that anyone can buy a piece of the Bank of Italy, even a foreign person, and not just a European person, because we know perfectly well that the very complicated system of funds makes it possible to get from far beyond European borders. There is no concern to say anything, for example, about the possible consequences of the fact that participation shares in our Central Bank will become freely transferable, i.e. exchangeable on the market. For these reasons, we believe that the measure in question does not have the necessary constitutional requirements.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u16	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with yet another case which has created a kind of embarrassment in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, not to mention other terms: yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the government went under the presupposition of the constitutionality of this decree-law. I would like to say at once that as a Northern League we are fully aware of the importance for citizens of abolishing the second instalment of the IMU on housing units. We are aware of the uncertainty in which they face a very heavy financial and fiscal framework: they have no certainty and no confidence in what will happen. We put ourselves absolutely in the shoes of mayors and local administrators on the front line, who close a balance sheet against which they still have no certainty about financial data. But that's not the point. The point is that for the umpteenth time what happened in the Commission shows that the government, increasingly (once out of three now) addresses issues that require organic reforms, in-depth, of such a heavy economic and fiscal nature through the instrument of the urgent decree. The decree-law, to which recourse should be made only in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency, according to the dictation of the Constitution, is instead adopted as an ordinary instrument of legislation to address the economic policies and also the structural reforms of this country. Therefore, we in the Commission are often debating and wondering how we should deal with these issues when we come across practices that distort the constitutional dictation, Articles 76 and 77 of the Constitution. The decrees-laws are adopted and are submitted to us by the Government in view of the emergency situation in which the country is located. In this way we are prevented from having a regular debate; we are unable to discuss any issues of such importance as would be necessary; we always have contingency times (not to mention the decree-law that will follow on the extension of international missions: it comes almost to an end, with the contingency and so emerging times so that we cannot really dwell too much on the debate). This is not the way to operate: it is not possible for the Government to pursue political action in economic and fiscal matters in this way. We have often questioned the point in the Commission. The Commission has made precise recommendations; the President of the Commission herself has intervened several times, recently also in this Chamber, to call and give a strong warning to the Government on the need to review this approach of pursuing government policy by using the instrument of the decree-law for any topic, and often by providing in these measures entirely heterogeneous, diversified, with rules disconnected from each other. I remind you of a very recent case, the decree on feminicide, which contained the most varied provisions. In this decree-law, although it is true that the content is reduced with regard to the number of articles, there are three parts in the regulatory body that are not related to each other. Therefore, there is no requirement in this decree-law for homogeneity, which I recall being recently and on several occasions recalled by the Constitutional Court, and which is not respected. If the part concerning the IMU has - we understand - an extraordinary necessity and urgency, it is not so with regard to the part concerning the disposal of public buildings, which in the Government's intention should serve to recover resources for the purpose of reducing the deficit, and it is not so with regard to the overall regulatory framework inherent in the governance structure of the Bank of Italy. Therefore, there is no constitutional presupposition and this cannot be overshadowed. I would also point out that we are forced, almost subjected to a sort of moral blackmail - pass me the term - to have to ratify and convert everything because the country is in an emergency situation. This is not possible: the right to debate and to deepening is absolutely excluded and, with regard to minority political formations, the possibility of carrying out appropriate in-depth studies is mortified. We can no longer go on in this way, we have pointed this out several times in the Commission, it has been stressed in this House, and this must therefore be a precise warning to the Government to maintain and pursue a political line and action in accordance with the tasks and prerogatives of the Chambers and this branch of Parliament, in particular. I would also like to point out that, precisely in this area of Parliament, constitutionality profiles are examined much more incisively, rigorously and rigorously than in the Chamber of Deputies, because, given our Rules of Procedure, the remarks on constitutionality profiles are precisely a preliminary preparatory step to the next process of examining the measure, unlike what happens in the Chamber, where the other standing committees and the Committee on Legislation are involved anyway. All the more so, we hope that the Government from now on, even on the example of what happened yesterday on a measure of great importance for citizens and for local administrations, will change course and begin to respect the role of Parliament and the prerogatives of this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u19	ROMANO (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 133 of 30 November 2013 contains urgent provisions on IMU, the alienation of public buildings and Banca d'Italia. We believe that the draft law in question is constitutional. With regard to the requirement of homogeneity, without prejudice to the need for the repeated recommendations of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, so it would be desirable for the future no longer to be faced with decree-laws with completely uneven rules on the subject, I would stress that, in view of the parliamentary commitments relating to the examination of the bill of stability and the need to provide by 31 December, the Government has considered it preferable to incorporate provisions which are actually uneven in a single measure. We cannot therefore deny that the measure is uneven within it, but the need and urgency to provide, and therefore the constitutionality of the measure, are dictated by several reasons. First, they originate from the imminent expiry of the payment deadline for the second installment of the IMU, next 16 December; while, with reference to the provisions in the matter of public buildings,..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this respect, it is noted that these measures are also reflected in the revenue provided for in the Stability Act for the financial years after 2013 onwards. With regard to the constitutional requirements of the provisions concerning the Bank of Italy, they derive from the urgency of a redefinition of the governance of the Bank of Italy itself, especially in order to overcome the interpretative uncertainties regarding the nature of the participation in its capital and its economic content, also in view of the forthcoming participation of the Bank of Italy in the Single European System of Banking Supervision. Finally, I would like to stress that the measures under consideration exhaust their financial effects in the financial year 2013 and therefore do not interfere with the provisions of the Stability Act. Therefore, I should like to end by saying that we believe that the draft law in question is constitutional. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u22	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Right Centre will vote in favour of the existence of constitutional requirements. I think it is absolutely clear to all of us that this measure was absolutely urgent and necessary, given the imminent expiry of the second IMU instalment: if it had not been adopted in the form of a decree-law, this instalment would have been the subject of payment by all Italian citizens who owned the first house. With regard to the reasons explained by Senator De Petris, I believe that his observations have already been exceeded for some time, since they are not related to the nature of the decree, but to the structure of the IMU as a form of taxation of real estate. Therefore, the progressiveness invoked by Senator De Petris is protected by the cadastral annuities, which are certainly not all the same, but ensure a different taxation linked to the value of the real estate and, therefore, guarantee the progressiveness on this side, as provided for by the Constitution. With regard to the other contents of the decree-law, meanwhile the necessity and urgency are recognizable in relation to the improbable need to cover the intervention from the economic point of view. It is therefore inevitable that in such cases there is a heterogeneity of the contents of the decrees. Going to stick to this today I think it is useless, after for years the decrees have all been absolutely heterogeneous, and I remember that those who today protest against this have widely used the use of heterogeneous content. I believe that it is precisely in this case that heterogeneity is not an end in itself, but is aimed at the completion of the decree in its contents and its economic value. Therefore, we will vote against the contrary opinion expressed on constitutionality, recognizing to the decree-law at our examination all the requirements of necessity and urgency, including the rules on the so-called Banca Italia maneuver, long debated both political and economic and social. It was an absolutely ready measure, whose adoption by decree-law finds nothing compared to improvisation here recalled (fact, I repeat, is not true). Of course, it is true that if the two branches of Parliament were much more diligent in examining these measures which are born in the form of a decree-law, we would have plenty of time to intervene, modify and define them. But if it happens - as is also happening these days - that the House holds for more than fifty days a provision and sends it to the Senate for ratification alone, it is certainly not a good attitude. But the facts of this kind have been discussed for years. If we do not make a move in terms of the Rules of our Assemblies, we will continue to see more and more decree-laws coming, and fewer and fewer draft laws will be examined, especially if it is a parliamentary initiative. Therefore, everything that is now being claimed pretentiously and disputed - it is clear that the preliminary ruling is purely political and not substantive on this measure - depending on the position of majority or opposition, will continue to be the subject of a sterile debate, which does not essentially solve the problem. I therefore repeat the opposition of the New Centre to the constitutional objections raised by certain political components. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u25	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the content of the decree we are debating today is the exemplary representation of the reasons why Forza Italia has decided no longer to support this Government. It is known that the elimination of the IMU on the first house, to give breath to families and momentum to the real estate market, is a priority and indispensable program point for our movement. It is precisely for this reason that we are deeply disappointed that the service agreement entered into by President Letta has failed when, precisely in this House, he has committed himself to completely overcoming taxation on the house and to eliminating the tax most hated by the Italians. The measure we are debating is therefore incomplete in its political significance, but above all improper in its constitutional formulation. Let's face it, fellow senators, just read the decree to get the feeling of approximation and confusion. We are faced with yet another abuse of the decree of urgency both from the point of view of the extraordinary necessity and urgency enshrined in article 77, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, and from the point of view of the homogeneity of the contents of the legislative resolution, imposed by article 15, paragraph 3, of law n. 400 of 1988. The first problem of all evidence is internal heterogeneity; we put together norms on the exclusion only partial of some categories of property from the second installment IMU, on which moreover have been triggered not only the protests of Forza Italia, but the just protests of all the mayors of Italy; provisions for increases and additional for the credit, financial and insurance sector; norms on the revaluation of the shares of Bank of Italy and norms on the disposal of the public real estate. This is simply an abuse. It is evidence that despite the commitments and declarations of intent in the opposite direction, this Government insists, in perfect continuity with the previous Government, to use the decree as a preferential channel of implementation of its political direction. We cannot continue to forget that the Constitution requires that all the rules of the decrees should also be characterised by equal requirements of necessity and urgency. Nor can we forget, as members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that the case law of the Court says that the absence of uniformity between the provisions of the legislative text also affects its nature of necessity and urgency. And all these profiles, if inserted in a broader framework to which we must add the use of the question of trust and the practice, also recently experimented on the law of stability, of the maxi innovative amendment regarding the work of the Commission of merit, profoundly alter, making them constitutionally improper, the relations between Parliament and the Government and complicate the same role of the President of the Republic in the scrutiny of decree-laws. It is clear, therefore, that the Government is forcing the constitutional construction to a great extent, making the main premise of the exceptionality of the use of the decree-law as a derogation from the principle of representativeness, drastically compressing the exercise of the legislative function by Parliament. And this is not our petition of principle: the judgments of the Constitutional Court n. 171 of 2007 and n. 128 of 2008, innovative the jurisprudence in the matter of presuppositions of the decree of urgency, consider the non homogeneity of the content of the decree-law an index of the possible nonsusistence of the requirement of extraordinary necessity and urgency. The Court itself, in its recent judgment No 22 of 2012, several times commented in this Chamber, considered the decree-law tout illegitimate if its content does not respect the constraint of homogeneity. In addition, the reference to the requirements laid down by the existing legislation of the Senate Rules of Procedure and Rule 96- bis of the House Rules of Procedure shall apply as criteria of merit for each branch of the Parliament in the exercise of its function of political control vis-à-vis the Government. The subjects which this decree regulates are very difficult to consider as entangled by that objective or functional link requested by the Constitutional Court so that the content of an emergency order can reasonably be considered as unitary. He blames himself, therefore: the lack of homogeneity of this umpteenth omnibus decree that reaffirms itself in contrast to the Constitution, because the mere introduction of provisions in the body of a decree-law does not apply to transmit, for this reason alone, to the same the character of the urgency; the non-immediate operation and indeterminateness of the measures brought by the provisions relating to the IMU that would have a deferred effect with enormous difficulties of intertemporal law in determining costs and balances at the expense of citizens; the absence in the title, which further renders uneven the decree-law, of any reference to the matter dealt with by Article 2 that introduces new taxes precisely through the decree of urgency; the presence of legal norms, incompressible in the contingency of cases of extraordinary necessity and urgency (Banca d'Italia). In addition, the proposed regulation abolishing the second instalment of the IMU provides that for 2013 it is not due for certain categories of buildings. As it is formulated, the rule creates a clear disparity of treatment, since the decree provides for the abolition of the second instalment only for direct farmers or professional farmers, while landowners will be required to pay the installment by 16 December. It is worth remembering, ladies and gentlemen, that precisely the argument relating to the exemption of the IMU for agricultural land and rural buildings was addressed during the first reading examination of the Senate of the bill of stability and that the maxi amendment (approved with confidence) was limited to providing that the Municipality could provide for tariff reductions and exemptions, with reference to the TARI and the TASI, in the case of rural buildings for residential use, and the raising, for the year 2013 alone (another heavy problem of intertemporal law) of the quota deductible for the purposes of direct taxes, from the expected 20% to 30%: colleagues, coordination, this unknown. Again, Articles 4 to 6, which contain provisions relating to the Bank of Italy, do not justify the urgency of a redefinition of the governance of the institution. In this regard, and in order to summarize all these points of clear institutional opacity, Secretary Baretta himself, at a time of self-consciousness, argued that, in view of the parliamentary commitments relating to the examination of the bill of stability and the need to provide by 31 December, the Government considered it preferable to incorporate provisions which were actually uneven in a single measure. In short, to paraphrase a director icon of the left, who in one of his very famous films said that those who speak badly think badly, one could say that those who write badly think badly. And here we come from the method to the political substance. In the confusion of words, we can see a clear political plan, namely that we do not completely eliminate the system of taxation that the President of the Council, Mr Letta, has said - again and again - that he wants to overcome. In fact, the IMU does not disappear, but remains in forms that not only us, but fundamental pieces of Italian society (for example, the Municipalities) consider unacceptable. On balance, therefore, VAT has increased and part of the IMU has remained. That is to say, it has remained the cornerstone of the policy of rigour and taxation which, from our point of view, has been one of the factors of worsening the Italian crisis in the wider context of the European crisis. If this is added to the government's substantial futility in terms of cuts in public spending (the many times announced spending review, of which there is still no news), we come to the conclusion that this Government, which pretends to criticize Olli Rehn and which in Europe speaks of growth, is nothing more than the continuation of the work of technicians, hidden under the flags of parties that support it. Ultimately, a government is certainly not at the service of the citizens, our families and our businesses. For Forza Italia, who will undertake to change this text in order to ensure that the truth of the contents finally corresponds to the promises of the titles, the state lacks the constitutional conditions for a favorable vote. Our vote is therefore in line with the one already expressed in the Commission. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u28	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a Chamber which obviously does not have particular attention to this issue, because it is not an issue that deserves attention from so many colleagues, it seems absolutely impossible for us to reason on an issue that was already highlighted in the Commission yesterday in its critical aspects. Yesterday, in the Commission, we voted against, and today we will confirm this direction, because we believe that the decree in question, which is a decree that is not irrelevant at all, has obvious contradictions with the provisions of Article 77 of the Constitution. Before I go into the matter, I would like to make a political speech. We've been thinking here for several months... (Brusio). I, Mr President, do not think I can continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u29	Colleagues, the background noise level exceeds the tolerance thresholds. Let us allow Senator Morra to carry out his considerations. Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you for your speech, but it is not so much a matter of buzz or noise. The point is that several people claim that Italian citizens in recent years have been subjected to real tax harassment; on other parts they claim that a de facto monocameralism has been established, which has deprived Parliament, in its original bicameral structure, of its functions and prerogatives, which the constituents wanted to assure it. But obviously this is not at the heart of so many of my colleagues who are not interested in what we are saying. But I do not want to take any more time, because obviously the issues that are dear to the citizens are not particularly appreciated by those who should work in this House for the citizens. I just want to remember something that Senator Bernini mentioned earlier. I liked the postponement that she made to one of the rare moments of self-consciousness in which a representative of the Government, that is the Undersecretary Baretta, said that the decree contained provisions that were actually uneven that, for purely pragmatic reasons, the Government decided to merge. (Brusio). I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm not continuing. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u31	Senator Morra, if you wish, you can continue your speech, which, however, is addressed not only to the Assembly, but to all those who follow our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u34	Mr Pizzetti (PD). Mr President, just because, unlike Mr Morra, we care about the interests of the citizens, we consider this decree to be an important act, on whose urgency there is no doubt, because of the effects it is called upon to produce in a short way on citizens, on families, on municipalities, on businesses (particularly agricultural ones) and on the activities, in the Cesarini area, of the tax centres, of which no one is talking, but which are in enormous difficulty. Therefore, there is no uncertainty as to whether the decree corresponds to the constitutional requirements of necessity and urgency, no matter how much - I agree - there are defects of homogeneity, as unfortunately often happens, not only by this Government, but by all governments, as the first Commission has repeatedly pointed out and as in the past has repeatedly called the President of the Republic. The decree gives rise to a challenging act of the Government in relation not only to the dynamics of public finance, but in the much more challenging relationship with the citizen. Of course, the IMU affair, with good peace from my colleague Bernini, cannot be referred to as a shining example of political action on the ground of linearity, taxation, progressiveness and federalism. It has tightened its wings to measures of far greater effectiveness on the reduction of the levy for workers and enterprises. In this regard, a serious responsibility, precisely for its ideological constraints, brings Forza Italia, as well as the serious responsibility, in the matter of difficulty of reducing the levy, to have faced the crisis in the past years, with the Berlusconi Government, not attacking the debt and indeed increasing it, especially on the front of current expenditure. This situation is due to the confusion and uncertainty that has arisen with households, municipalities and businesses. This confusion and uncertainty must be quickly healed. The credibility of not only the government but the state is at stake. The abolition of the payment of the second instalment for the real estate types and land already identified with the rules on the first instalment, compensating the municipalities for the missed revenues, in agreement with the ANCI and the State-City Conference, is a commitment made by the Government that must be absolutely respected in its entirety, as the mayors ask in recalling the respect of the agreed pacts, and without downloading residual quotas on citizens. The decree also sounds some inconsistencies of the type of housing granted in comodate to relatives in a straight line within the first degree. The decree defines the sources of financing through the additional IRES on the credit system and the demobilization of shares of the public real estate, as well as intervention in the redevelopment of the ownership structure of the Bank of Italy. It is quite clear that the IMU affair and the related decrees show that no longer a proper tax reform and the decisive start of a reform of the land register, without which injustices will not be cured, but perpetuated. To these commitments I call the Government, also in view of the next appointment with the vote of confidence, following the renewed political-programmatic statements of the President of the Council planned for next week. With these intentions and urging the Government, announces the positive vote of the PD Group to the conversion into law of the decree. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u37	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking in dissent from my Group. Mrs Bisonella was too hard to say that we would vote against. I will abstain, because frankly it does not seem right to shoot on the Red Cross and the Red Cross, in this case it is because what happened yesterday in the Commission is a symptom of a majority that did not realize that, compared to a week ago, the numbers have changed: the senators must remain in the Commission to vote, or they go home. It is curious, in fact, to see that, when we talk about electoral matters and we have to proceed to the vote, the Renzians leave the Commission; when we return to ordinary subjects, the Renzians belong and all the others leave. In the end, part of the PD goes away, the entire Civic Choice Group and part of the New Right Center go away, and the result is that they go below. I suggest you, colleagues in front of me, reflect on the current position of the majority, because not every day President Napolitano or the Council can intervene to save the majority. Today you have saved the garbage, but it cannot always be so because, to use the definition given by Gennaro Escobedo in his famous book, the sentence is suicidal. Not only the "porcellum" committed suicide, but also this Parliament, the same President of the Republic and the same Constitutional Court. [[Applause from the LN-Au and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senator Blondo]] . Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u38	I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of the opinion contrary to the opinion expressed by the 1st Permanent Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the conditions required by Article 77, second paragraph, of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No 133. Senators who intend to comply with the opinion of the 1st Commission, and therefore acknowledge the non-susistence of the conditions and requirements, will have to vote yes. Senators who do not intend to comply with the opinion of the 1st Commission will have to vote no. Senators who intend to abstain will express themselves accordingly. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u41	CASINI (SCPI). Mr President, after the discussion of the first item on the agenda, I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the disappearance of Senator Sandro Fontana in Brescia yesterday, after a long illness. University professor, as well as a person of great human qualities, was a historian, long-term director of the People's, Deputy National Secretary of Christian Democracy, then President of the Christian Democratic Centre. He was Minister of the University, Vice President of the European Parliament and Senator of the Republic in the X and XI legislature. I think there will be a way and time to commemorate it properly. He was a witty polemicist, a man of great intelligence and great cultural depth. He did not hesitate to throw himself into political polemics when necessary: I remember his name, "Bertoldo" with which he was known polemicist at the time of the so-called First Republic. He had a long illness, which he faced with courage and great dignity. I think it is right that the Senate of the Republic and the political world should not lose the ability to preserve the memory of their protagonists. That is why I wanted to remind Senator Sandro Fontana here today, sending from this solemn Chamber a message of solidarity to his family and to Brescia, his city. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u44	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, I would like to join in the condolences expressed by my colleague, Senator Casini. I take the floor, among other things, with a certain personal emotion, in view of the relations of attendance, solidarity and friendship that I have had for years with Senator Sandro Fontana. Certainly we will find the way to dedicate a particular and specific occasion to the deepening of the multiple profiles of a personality as significant as that of Sandro Fontana. I merely recall a few moments of his public affair here. For me, Sandro Fontana was first of all a historian, a scholar of history, who wrote extremely significant pages and certainly inspired on a multiplicity of themes: from his essays on the Catholic counter-revolution in Italy, dedicated to the birth and development of the Catholic movement from the age of Restoration, to the valorization of the contribution made by the peasants and the countryside to the process of national liberation in Italy in the years of the Resistance, to the deepening of the meaning of local traditions in the context of Italian history, always addressed with specific attention to the process of constitution of the national unity of our country. Certainly he was not only a historian Sandro Fontana, but a political man of great importance, who had very important initiatives in the public life of our country, however acted and lived with extraordinary coherence. I would like to recall here the fact that Sandro Fontana was one of the very few parliamentarians who in our country felt that he resigned from office when he became Minister in his case of the university: an example, therefore, of good custom and morality that, alas, had no particular follow. President Casini has already recalled the figure of Bertold, the polemicist, the exponent of that member of the Christian Democracy who was the new forces of Mr Donat-Cattin. In fact - and I am about to conclude - Sandro Fontana must be recognized as a singular coherence, because even in the years of his militancy in Christian Democracy, in the phase of the preamble, and then of his closeness to Mr Casini and, then again, of his participation in Forza Italia, Sandro Fontana never failed to the original inspiration that had seen him, very young, begin in the political battle. So I want to pay tribute to his seriousness, consistency and morality. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u47	BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too want to join in the memory of Sandro Fontana, referring to another moment, as President Casini recalled, the opportunity to recall his complex political and cultural personality and the role he played in the progress of our country. I also remember Sandro Fontana for having had the honour to meet him, to attend him, to be with him and to think with him about the future of our country. I think that with Sandro Fontana one of the leading figures of the last ruling political class of this country goes away; a ruling class in which the level of culture was never dissociated from that of political commitment. He is an example to which I believe we still have to look today when we think we have to build a different political life and a new generation of politicians engaged in politics. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u50	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, our group's senators also bow to the news of Sandro Fontana's disappearance. Both Senator Casini and Senator Corsini recalled the scholar: the scholar of the history of contemporary Italy, the scholar of the Catholic world, the scholar of the relationship between the popular world and the liberal world. The university, in the academic sense, sometimes petty, has never been very generous towards Sandro Fontana. I do not know if politics has been more generous, because Sandro Fontana - I think Senator Casini has reminded me - began to suffer from psoriasis since his debut in the European Parliament. He was a man of great civil passion; he was a man who respected and loved politics and never degraded himself to wonder how much he had been given to politics and how much he had been given. It was one of the thinking heads, in the aftermath of the dissolution of the First Republic, in seeking in the new popular and liberal reality, rather than in the ancient demo-Christian internationalism, the ways for a participation and a democratic battle. He certainly never gave up culture. He tried to give a cultural interpretation, intelligent and profound also to the social block that had led to the victory of the center-right in 2001. He was an exemplary minister. With these sentiments, we Senators of the Center Right - but perhaps not only us - feel more alone and embrace with affection his wife and brother, who was our colleague in the Senate in the unfortunate legislature of Tangentopoli. We are grateful to my friend Casini for causing this first memory for now. [[Applause from the NCD Group and Senator Casini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u51	He asked Minister Franceschini to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u52	Mr President, the government agrees with the words that have been said in memory of Senator Fontana for the role he has played. I must also add the personal memory and the relationship he had with the then young people of Christian Democracy, very conflictual, because in Christian Democracy there was a great internal debate, but in which he always participated with great intellectual curiosity, with great vigour. His italics - as President Casini recalled - signed "Bertoldo" had daily discussions. I think he was an interpreter of that great tradition of social Catholicism, of Lombard democratic Catholicism which, although poured into various rivoli in the various political forces, still preserves its history and its strength intact. And Sandro Fontana was a prominent interpreter. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u53	The Presidency obviously agrees with the sentiment of condolence expressed by commemorating the figure of Sandro Fontana by many colleagues (I apologise to those who have not been able to intervene because, as usual, a senator has spoken for each group), to the memory of his true participation, directed to the political debate. He has been a journalist, a man of government, a historian and has shown how the political class has been able to unite civil action, quality and a commitment inspired by very high content. This is not always recognized. The commemoration of the figure of Sandro Fontana allows us to claim this merit to the political class. Senator Fontana was part of this Assembly. We remember it with a minute of recollection. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend a greeting to the students of the Institute "Von Neumann" in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u55	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1190, already approved by the House of Deputies. The President of the 4th Permanent Commission, Senator Latorre, reports on the work of the 3rd and 4th Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u56	Mr President, I would like to inform you and your colleagues that the second reading examination of draft law No 1190 to which you referred could not be concluded by the Joint Committees on Foreign Affairs, Emigration and Defence. However, I would like to stress that the reasons why the Commissions have not completed their work are of an eminently objective nature, i.e. they do not derive from the bad will of the members, of all the members, of the two Commissions. The Chamber of Deputies, in fact, had concluded the examination in the late morning of yesterday, and the conversion into law of the decree-law subjugated at the peremptory end of 9 December, that is, next Monday. In view of the fact that the Conference of Leaders had already scheduled the measure for today's morning, only yesterday's evening remained in order to be able to examine it in the Commissions, which were also called for at 7 p.m. to coincide with the expiry of the deadline for tabling amendments to this House. I would like to take this opportunity, dear President, to make an appeal to you. It is not understandable, it is no longer tolerable for us to organise parliamentary work so as to prevent this branch of Parliament from being able to carry out its functions fully. I believe that this is a problem that they should take into account both the Government and the presidencies of the two assemblies. Of course, a number of groups have taken the view that a number of amendments - 195 amendments, to be precise - and some agendas have also been tabled in the Commissions. Given the impossibility of obtaining the prescribed mandatory opinions of Commissions 1a and 5a, precisely because of the narrowness of the times I have just mentioned, as well as of course the bulk of the proposed amendments, the Presidents of Commissions 4a and 3a (Mr Casini and myself) have worked to ensure at least that the general discussion takes place, in order to allow all political forces to represent their positions, but aware that they cannot reach the vote on the mandate to the rapporteurs. That, then, is the conclusion that I am referring to you, Mr President, and to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Latorre's report, the draft law No 1190, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. The considerations made by Senator Latorre, which are widely shared, must take into account the complex development of the bill of conversion in the other branch of Parliament. Therefore, once again the question of bicameralism, which also belongs to other debates, is again raised.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u58	Mr President, this measure deals with the refinancing of missions abroad. This is a ten-year problem in Italy, which arose when the governing parties of the Second Republic decided, instead of respecting and applying Article 11 of the Constitution (which reads: "Italy repudiates war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of other peoples and as a means of resolving international disputes"), to involve Italy in real wars of aggression and missions of military occupation of foreign territories. The most striking cases are the Iraqi and Afghan cases. 10:37 a.m. (Follows ORELLANA). All this happens with the semantic doubleness to which we have become accustomed: they have defined it from time to time as "humanitarian mission," "export of democracy," or, aligning ourselves with our allies, "preventive war," and lately, more sobriety, "missions abroad." This last definition is perhaps the most devious because it brings back into a single container authentic missions of interposition and peacekeeping, such as the UN mission in Lebanon, with missions that are clearly and tragically acts of military aggression, as in the Libyan case, or military occupation, as in Afghanistan, the longest war since the Second World War on. Moreover, the fact of bringing back into the same decree-law the refinancing of missions abroad, the most disparate, missions that take place in scenarios, with absolutely heterogeneous modalities and purposes, and asking the Senate to vote for a similar cauldron decreto is illogical and senseless. The way in which the text of the decree-law deals with and treats the tragedy with thousands of deaths is also disconcerting: the missions are refinanced each with a specific paragraph of Article 1 (there is not even the dignity of an article for each mission). This is how we find (I quote just a few as an example), in paragraph 1 the war in Afghanistan and the ISAF and EUPOL missions, in paragraph 13 the mission in Libya, called European Union Border Assistance Mission in Libya (EUBAM Libya), in paragraph 16 the mission of the European Union in Mali (EUTM). Paragraph 24, then, authorizes the Ministry of Defence to surrender, free of charge, to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Djibouti four light armored vehicles, means of transport and logistics, authorizing to this end the expenditure of 192.000 euros; therefore, we gift bizarrely armored vehicles to Djibouti, but this gift costs us 192.000 euros! Returning to Afghanistan, for the sole presence of Italy in that country in recent years we have spent billions of euros that could have served, according to estimates of Emergency, to build 10,000 schools and 600 hospitals. This is the help we have brought to the Afghan people, torn by a war that seems endless. The result is that the country is poorer and invaded by the crime of before, the Taliban occupy 80% of the territory and the capital Kabul is torn by frequent episodes of urban guerrilla, while Afghanistan today produces more than 80% of the opium sold in the world. After so many years - we are more than ten - the only center of resuscitation is that of Emergency in Kabul, less than ten beds of intensive care for 25 million people. Many Italian military have lost their lives in Afghanistan because of this madness and hundreds of thousands are Afghan civilians wounded, mutilated or killed during this war. This is to say that the situation in Afghanistan has worsened since the beginning of the war and it gets worse from day to day, just look at the hospital records. Precisely the presence in the decree of the refinancing of the mission in Afghanistan is the main reason for our opposition to this measure of the Government. On Afghanistan our governments have always lied, denying the ongoing war, underestimating the risks for our soldiers, accepting the U.S. definition of collateral damage related to civilian victims, finally promising citizens a withdrawal from Afghanistan that is however denied nothing less than by President Karzai, in a statement of March 9, 2013, from which I read: President Hamid Karzai met Giampaolo Di Paola, then Minister of Defence, to discuss issues of common interest. During the meeting held on Saturday in the Presidential Palace, the two parties discussed various topics including the transition process, training and equipment of Afghan security forces, the post-2014 presence in Afghanistan of the international community and in particular Italy, and regional issues. The real withdrawal is therefore not yet in sight and we will remain in this context of war for many years, without a clear and shared strategy for disengagement. This is the respect that this Government has for democracy, for the pacifism that imposes our Constitution and for the citizens, because I want to remember that Italian citizens are absolutely opposed to the war in Afghanistan as evidenced by the daily support for Emergency and other humanitarian associations that care, help and assist a population torn apart by a real war. The generosity of Italian citizens seeks to soothe the wounds of the war hurled against the Afghan people even by our governments. And while the citizens carry out these acts of generosity and solidarity, the Minister of Defence argues that the waste of tens of billions for the F-35 is justified by the fact that peace must be armed. These statements are indecent, they are an offense and a slap in the face to the Italian families pulling the belt! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Cristofaro.]] I would also like to recall the daily risks that Italian soldiers take: our soldiers have solemnly sworn to defend the Italian Republic, have not sworn to risk their lives as pawns in the hands of parties and governments to invade and occupy foreign states. The government has no respect for our military and for their solemn oath and puts their lives and health at risk unjustly! Moving from the merit of the decree to the method used by the Government, this decree-law does not see the urgency criteria required by Article 77 of the Constitution, being known and for some time the need to periodically refinance missions abroad. Where is the urgency criterion? It's impossible to see. Finally, I recall that the decree-law under consideration was also presented with guilty delay, on October 10 last, leaving our missions, albeit for a few days (one ten), without the necessary financial coverage and thus revealing a management of the institutional commitments that I would call euphemistically censorable. That is why we are calling for this question of constitutionality to be voted on. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u59	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u62	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the Misto-SEL Group, as it has already done in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, when it approved yesterday the proposal for a favourable opinion on the existence of constitutional conditions, expresses its opposition to this measure and to the existence of these conditions. Having said that, we can only be in favour of the preliminary constitutionality just illustrated by Senator Orellana. The first reason why, in our view, the conditions of necessity and urgency do not exist for this measure is in Article 11 of the Constitution. I would like to recall this, because it is not only the question of the interpretation that has been given, but the measure in question contains precisely rules contrary to that article, especially for one of the missions: Italy repudiates war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of other peoples and as a means of resolving international disputes; it allows, on a level playing field with other States, the limitations of sovereignty necessary for a system that ensures peace and justice between nations; it promotes and favours international organizations aimed at this purpose. Well, the decree before us deals with the extension of 26 missions of a completely different nature, and therefore, even with Article 11 of the Constitution, they are very different. Some of these are clearly more in line with the essence of that dictation: for example, with reference to the limitations of sovereignty necessary for a system that ensures peace, we can count the mission in Lebanon, a classic example of interposition work that has guaranteed - hopefully, and at least until now - a situation of truce and reconstruction of the conditions of coexistence and peace in that country. However, the same cannot be said for the mission by name, namely in Afghanistan, because in total contrast to Article 11, even the last part of that article, because we know perfectly well that the intervention began without any kind of endorsement from international bodies, and that only in a second phase was a sort of international legality found. This is the mission which, in our view, presents the strongest elements of conflict: moreover, we are talking about an intervention that has lasted for twelve years now. Last night, in the relevant committees - Foreign Affairs and Defence - we had the opportunity to express our views on the matter. Of course, I regret that even today, with all due respect for the members of the Government present, this House will not have the opportunity to have a serious debate and a serious budget compared to twelve years of our presence in Afghanistan. That is why it may have been necessary to think a little more carefully also in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and not to lightly acknowledge the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency for this measure. The other elements which lead us to consider the draft law No 1190 as lacking the conditions of constitutionality and to be, for this reason, in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling are, in our view, once again the prerequisites of necessity and urgency. It has been going on for years now with these extensions of three months in three months, and for obvious reasons, precisely because they are quarterly renewals that are already planned, so much so that yesterday in the competent Commissions the Undersecretary present tried to reassure us saying that a number of requests would be included in the decree already ready. Clearly, then, this is a way of circumventing Article 77 of the Constitution. Moreover, I would like to remind you that on 31 December, in twenty days' time, the decree under consideration will lose its effectiveness, and in fact we are already working on the next decree. As you well understand, you can no longer go on like this. This morning there was controversy about the fact that the measure was sent late by the House, but I would like to draw attention here to the fact that it was also presented very late; if it really wanted to ensure a more constructive and equal process between the two branches of Parliament, perhaps it would have been necessary and perhaps reasonable, on the part of the Government, for once access to the request to unpack the decree, because this, among other things, would have allowed everyone to express much more on the subject, mission by mission, and we could have diversified positions, but this today, once again, we are prevented from doing so. For all these reasons, to which I could add many others (but I would like to strictly confine myself to the questions relating to the preliminary question of constitutionality: we will then be able to intervene more in the course of the debate on the substance of the measure), I announce my Group's vote in favour of the question referred to by Senator Orellana, QP1. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u65	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, I am speaking to announce our vote against the question of constitutionality QP1. The arguments about the non-constitutionality of the measure put forward by the previous Members seem to me to have all been based on a somewhat unilateral reading of Article 11 of the Constitution. Frankly, with regard to the commitment and honour of our military on mission (all of which are 6,000 soldiers), the words "wars of aggression" and "missions of military occupation of foreign territories," in particular in Afghanistan and Iraq, seem to me out of tone and out of measure, even considering what they cost, to the soldiers of our country, these missions in terms of human lives. With regard to the structure that for some time has taken on the global measure, Senator Orellana spoke effectively of an article for each mission, but this matter does not concern both the constitutional profiles and the modalities of our legislative work and so can be said for those calendar reasons of the two Chambers, ingenious towards the Senate, duly recalled at the opening of the argument by Senator Latorre. Hence our convinced and meditated vote against the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u68	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we will probably later agree with colleagues from the 5 Star Movement and SEL in judging the merits of the matter. We are opposed to this measure. However, objectively speaking of constitutional requirements, we cannot pretend that they do not exist. We must admit that the necessity and urgency, the two requirements to judge the constitutionality of intervening by the Government by decree-law, are obvious. I would add that since 1 October there has been no coverage even for the missions in question. Therefore, it is not just a matter of urgency, but in our opinion it is also a guilty delay for the Government in dealing with this issue. Mr Ergo, of course, there must be an urgent need, given the need to finance activities already in place and already carried out. That is why we cannot agree on the negation of constitutionality, and I would add that in the speeches made by my colleagues we have focused more on the substance than on the constitutionality profiles. [[Applause from Senator Morra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u69	I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling (QP1) by Senator Orellana and other senators. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u70	Mr President, I would ask you, if possible, to try again this vote, because I have seen several senators speak in favour, but there was a certain commotion in this House at that time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u71	Senator Santangelo, I have seen very clearly, together with the Secretary Senators, who are at this moment confirming the outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u74	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I apologise, but I do not know whether a vote of abstention can be taken by way of a show of hands. Therefore, I would like to give you my abstention vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u75	I apologise, Senator Volpi, for not asking who wanted to abstain in this vote. The Presidency takes note of its abstention. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr Franceschini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u76	Mr President, as President Latorre pointed out, the mission decree came to the Senate too close from a time point of view to its expiry. The journey to the House was made difficult by the will of some opposition groups to prevent its conversion, even if it was a matter which, on the contrary, in the past almost always had a converging consensus between majority and opposition of the moment. This forced the Government to put the question of trust, with great regret, even personal. Since the beginning of the experience of the Letta Government - as I also had the opportunity to say at the hearing on the urgent decree in the Senate's Constitutional Affairs Committee - we have tried to correct, to order and regulations in force, that mechanism, which seemed inexorable, made of decree-law, maxi amendment (often corrective of the work of the two Chambers) and vote of confidence on it. Since the Led Government was in office, trust has been placed on decree-laws only twice (two votes) on 16 decree-laws of conversion (therefore, more than 30 votes). This is the third confidence which I will now put forward, which calls for further consideration in the future of regulatory changes to correct this mechanism. With greater regret, I have to put the question of trust, in order to ensure the conversion of the decree-law in the necessary time, on a subject that in the past, beyond the governments that have alternated with the leadership of the country, has always seen a broad consensus beyond the boundaries of the majority of the moment. The vote of confidence naturally acquires political significance, but I would like to reiterate, especially on the eve of a parliamentary passage that will take place next Wednesday in the two Chambers, that in this case the imposition of the question of trust is intended to allow the conversion of the decree-law in the prescribed terms. (The Minister, Mr Franceschini, after having made his speech and sitting down, again asked to be able to speak. The President shall give him the floor.) Mr President, I apologise: I skipped the conclusion of the speech with the ritual formula. For the reasons set out above, I put the question of trust in the text dismissed by the House. [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u77	I call the Conference of Group Leaders and suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of its work. (The sitting was suspended at 11:01 a.m. and resumed at 11:14 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u78	The session is resumed. The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups organised the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law extending international missions, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Ten minutes were allocated for the general discussion for each Group. The final explanations of vote will follow. The call will start around 14:00.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u79	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u80	Mr President, I ask that the Parliament of the Italian Republic does not convert Decree No 144 of 10 October 2013 extending different things, such as the international missions of the armed forces and police and some initiative of cooperation and support for the reconstruction processes. Overall, the decree-law comprises more than 30 different military interventions abroad in 23 countries, not to mention the initiatives that are characterized by the primary use of non-military instruments. In the face of such complexity, the reasons for a direct conversion into law are beyond doubt, which, among many things, has the sure effect of undermining Parliament's role and function in matters such as the war and budgetary matters that are its own. It is impossible not to point out that the decree-law continues to provide for the extension of interventions which, when not harmful, are at least anachronistic. Let me give you an example. Why should we continue to participate in the Active Endeavour operation to closely monitor Mediterranean naval traffic in the hunt for terrorists when we are unable to intercept and block illegal trafficking? It is certainly not by sending a ship up and down the Mediterranean that we can cope with phenomena such as terrorism. Despite this, our country seems to need new tools to deal with other emergencies such as Operation Mare nostrum. The Eufor Althea mission in Bosnia-Herzegovina seems to be just as overtaken by the circumstances. The same applies to the Temporary International presence in Hebron that everything seems except temporary, dating back to twenty years ago. Another clear product of the time that was found in the Peacekeeping Force mission, deployed in the Republic of Cyprus. We come to Italian participation in larger operations, such as NATO's International security assistance force in Afghanistan. We cannot fail to note that the intervention in Afghanistan is evolving into something very different from any other similar experience, since the number of military contractors employed now stands at almost 110,000, thus exceeding the sum of all NATO military contingents. The same programming for the end of the mission, scheduled for the end of 2014, is nothing more than a fiction, since the preparation of the next mission called Resolute support constitutes, for those in Afghanistan, a fake withdrawal to continue the senseless presence in a war already cost 54 Italian deaths in the first eight months of 2013 and 2,500 civilian victims. There are also concerns about the contrast between the USA's intention to continue the fight against terrorism and Karzai's opposition to terrorism on its own. In conclusion, we need to recall the opportunity to make a breakthrough in our country's foreign policy. Alternative instruments should be relaunched to the armed presence around the world, such as preventive diplomacy activities, non-armed and non-violent interventions, activities which, far from being pure utopias, have already been planned and studied by both our country and the European Union. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u81	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u82	Thank you for giving me the floor, Citizen President. Citizens and citizens present in this House, I begin my speech by talking about abuse, and not about the building so much present in this country: in the light of yesterday's sentence, in this Chamber we are all abusive, as elected by an electoral law declared unconstitutional. Prince De Curtis, in art Totò, so dear to me because I am Campania, in a beautiful movie, declaring himself president of the unfair parking union (SPA), enlisted colleagues saying: What do we ask the constituted and reconstituted authorities? A parking lot in the sun! Abusive, this is abuse. He's abusing himself. And he ended up saying, "Connect, squatters, ma'ams! ...Take care of yourselves! Gentlemen, in recent years some words and even some colors have been abused, which we claim to be used semantically. The green color, it's not from the League. Thus the word freedom, the most revolutionary word of the whole vocabulary: it has been abused by a reactionary political formation bent to the will of its by now fallen reigning. Unfortunately there is also the word "peace" among the abusive words used. On the front page of the decree we are debating today - although it will be difficult to discuss it in three minutes - we read "consolidation of peace processes" (i.e., in non-bureaucratic, peace missions). Wouldn't it have been more fair to say war missions? At this point I shall interrupt the reading of my speech because in the three minutes at my disposal I would like to say one thing. Senator Orellana talked earlier about the Emergency Hospital ICU in Kabul. I was there with Emergency and I made that department as an engineer. I could see what war is, indeed the famous collateral causes. The anti-personnel mines - Italy was a great producer of anti-personnel mines until 1997 - we and I produced them in that damn hospital I saw children coming without their hands, without their feet. Is this a mission of peace? Is this the peace we're talking about? We have spent EUR 5 billion since the start of the peace mission in Afghanistan: EUR 5 billion. What are we talking about? Do we realize what we're talking about? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then you say that we are angry: but who has seen with his own eyes what all this means, lives it on his own skin with a fierce anger, and it is that anger that brought us here. Therefore, we are not angry: we are legitimately angry and outraged at what we have seen. And stop using the word "peace" because that's not peace, that's something else. This is war! I shall end here, Mr President, by asking you to be able to attach the written text of my speech. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u83	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u84	Mr President, we cannot overlook the lack of seriousness with which this issue has been addressed. We have already talked about the issue of legitimacy: we start late and, after ten days, we end up with a presence and coverage of expenses. We do not even realize the expiry of the commitments and the Government and the majority are called in default on every measure, while it becomes almost difficult to oppose because we do not even find opposition. I spoke of seriousness. Last night the measure arrived in the Chamber without even the opinions of the 5th Commission, so the Defence Commission was not even able to decide and discuss the amending proposals, because the majority forgot that the 5th Commission had to be convened first on the relevant expenditure cover. Mr Ergo, you come to this House without a vote in the Commission, without a rapporteur and with the need - the Government has announced this - to put trust, because otherwise it will not come out anymore. Guilt, recurrence of responsibility. Why in the House has he been plundered and stalled? The obstructionism that some political forces have done to the House has been seen essentially passively, to the point that now, since the decree expires on Monday, trust must be put in a rush here too. On the subject of which we are discussing, we are talking about missions, the most important of which started in 2001-2002, following the events of 11 September. We must say that in these ten to eleven years the situation has changed considerably both in the territories concerned, first of all Afghanistan - and especially in the Mediterranean: let us say that Tunis, Tripoli, Cairo and now Damascus are certainly no longer what they were ten years ago. All this requires us to focus attention on our neighbours, in addition to the remaining financial resources we have to invest. Speaking of resources, here we continue to finance by successive decrees. I would remind you that the last measure we adopted stopped at 30 September: but was it thought that the interventions and the need to finance them would end on 30 September last? Definitely not. In the stability bill we have foreseen just over 700 million euros to meet these needs: do we think that is enough for 2014? One thing is obvious: we are going through an economic crisis that has never been seen before and we do not have the capacity or the resources to stop the mille rivoli or to face the thousand demands in the many areas on which to intervene. The only thing to do - and we suggest at this point - is to select the interventions according to the financial capacities we have today. We insist on this opportunity also because, by verifying the intervention, we see a multiplicity of small rivoli and a dispersion on the initiatives. I would like to mention very few of them. Without wishing to define the needs or interventions as minor, I remember that in Niger we have 27 men; in Hebron only 13; in Rafah only one person, plus two policemen on the EUPOL mission, always in Palestine; four men in Georgia; two men in Sudan, plus three others in the UNAMID mission; we have four men in Cyprus. I'm gonna stop right here. Do we think it is necessary and effective to maintain this spraying? We have approved a spending review that applies to the entire sector of public spending, but perhaps this sector should also be reviewed, providing for a small spending review in the context of military interventions. Allow me a small picture of at least two countries in which we consider our presence to be the most massive. The first is Afghanistan. Initially we intervene in Afghanistan after 11 September, because international terrorism is the first threat of all Western peoples: there terrorists train, there they recruit, there they self-finance and there - undoubtedly - they must be restrained and fought. This was ten years ago; today, basically, the picture is completely different: today we have reached about 2,900 men and there is a further reduction for 2014, so as to reach around 2,000 men. Let's look at what our neighbours do: Holland and France, for example, have already left that country. There is more: in Afghanistan it seems that it is no longer interesting to fight, at least the Taliban. In fact, the Karzai Government is asking to negotiate with terrorists and to interface with the Government of Pakistan to free the leaders captured and imprisoned in Pakistan in recent years. This framework requires us to reflect: the government that we are supporting and supporting has different guidelines and guidelines. If we look at the structure, we have returned to the Afghan security forces a series of territories, but we consider only one, Bala Murghab, where we have also made an important contribution of blood, we see that there now the guerrilla is the master. It is a daily guerrilla war; the news arrives day by day and is increasingly heavy in terms of security. Herat was considered the safest city in Afghanistan, but today the governor of Herat gave up and even left his post. This is the Afghan situation. As for Lebanon, we participate in the UNIFIL mission, in which all the vulnerability of our presence has been demonstrated. The Syrian crisis is emblematic. We ask ourselves: does Italian diplomacy - so the country - still have an interest, has a benefit, has advantages, has beneficial repercussions? The UN General Assembly took place in September this year: a summit on Lebanon was held in the context of the work and Italy was not even invited. This is the international consideration we enjoy, despite the fact that 1,100 men are still employed in Lebanon, to which are added the about 200 sent last with the destroyer Andrea Doria. What surprises us is that there is a lack of the most interesting intervention, that is the mission "Safe Sea," also defined "Mare nostrum" which should serve to strengthen the action of deterrence of illegal migratory flows that, as has been said, make the fortune of unscrupulous entrepreneurs, owners of real fleets of boats to lose. In our opinion, our attention and our resources must be concentrated there. Basically, we should give priority to interventions that satisfy, first and foremost, the primary and concrete interests of our country. As for the Libyan issue, a greater presence would serve the stability of the country, the fight against illegal emigration and, not least, also to protect the energy needs, the energy supply of our country. I remember that the bilateral agreement with Tripoli allowed the reduction, from the day it was signed, of 8% of the landings on our coasts. I want to say this very clearly: our position of opposition to the extension of military missions as it is carried out does not mean at all to delegitimize the action of our military, our soldiers, which we still call "servants of the State," who are increasingly exposed and to whom our thanks go also in view of the more than 50 victims who have lost their lives and to whom we owe enormous gratitude. However, we believe that we need to think about this in order to understand the best way to value human sacrifices, as well as economic sacrifices. We therefore call for a speedy retreat of the forces deployed in Afghanistan, a complete withdrawal of our soldiers from Lebanon and investment where there are direct interests of our country. In practice: let's focus on the Mediterranean, that is on the doors of our home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u85	Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time in this parliamentary term that Parliament has been called upon to discuss and approve a measure concerning the extension of international missions. The Senate, moreover, does so in a very short time and with a vote of confidence, penalty the revocation of the measure itself. And here, to the attention of all of us, we propose a theme that has already been central in the previous legislatures in the parliamentary confrontation, that is the criticality inherent in the procedure of decree of urgency for international missions: a space too small for such delicate issues that recall important issues such as the role of Italy in the international scene, the defence of human rights, the fight at the various headquarters of terrorism, the construction of peace, the civil and military engagement of many of our fellow countrymen in heavy crisis scenarios, unfortunately also marked by the tribute of human lives. In any case, with the interventions of international cooperation and with the extension of the missions of our Armed Forces, recognized by all for the highest quality of the work done and which I feel obliged to thank here, our Country intends to reaffirm its contribution to stability, peace, the protection of the international order, within the multilateral organizations of which we are part and all this happens in full respect of our constitutional dictation. I think it is useful to remind us all of this, because all too often these issues are simplified in a conflict between peace and war, respect and violation of Article 11 of the Constitution. The simplification, the compression of the debate, is also the negative effect induced by the same procedure of authorization of the missions, based, precisely, on the decree of urgency. Leaving the field from the discussion on these subjects, which we are obliged to repeat periodically with each extension, it would be advisable instead to have all the time to discuss and analyse more in detail the reason, the sense, of our presence in the 20-25 theatres in which we are currently engaged, and this in the light of the objectives we propose to achieve and the coherence between the objectives themselves and the strategies adopted. In this way, there may be more room for punctual analysis of the new fronts of instability in areas that are very close to us: I am thinking in particular of the issue of the Mediterranean, of the Syrian crisis itself. Similarly, more attention should be paid in the parliamentary debate to a more detailed assessment of the type of crisis and the most recent conflicts. In this context, it should be further and more firmly noted that none of the existing international, multinational or regional organisations, like any nation, acting unilaterally, will be able to face the challenges of a truly unpredictable future and in which no positive signs of peace and respect for human rights can be seen. Precisely because of these arguments, I am of the opinion that the Government must act in the coming year to promote a more participated and punctual discussion of Parliament, also working to reach the definition of a framework law in support of our international engagement in the theatres of crisis. In any case, Mr President, remaining to the measure under consideration, I note as the qualifying point of the decree the increase of the resources destined for international cooperation for the year 2013: it is the overall highest budget recorded since 2008. These are a series of interventions in support of humanitarian initiatives in many countries and areas of the world; they are actions that qualify and enhance the international role of our country in support of development, peace and respect for human rights. I should also like to say to my colleagues that the original forecasts of the decree under consideration on this particular subject, and this also happened thanks to the debate held in the Chamber of Deputies, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be able to intervene further with a sum of about EUR 3.5 million in the case of any new needs. Finally, with regard to Afghanistan, that is the mission in which our largest contingent is employed, I point out that 2014 - as, moreover, already emphasized - will be a very important year: in addition to the elections scheduled for next spring, in December 2014 the ISAF mission will expire. Therefore, it will be even more necessary in the coming year to support the international community to complete the transition, the assumption by the Afghan national authorities of all responsibility in the management of the country. From this point of view, it must be reiterated that all our possible participation in the training and training mission of the Afghan security forces, following the conclusion of the ISAF mission, as discussed at the NATO Summit in Chicago in 2012, cannot - I stress - but will take place after the debate and approval of our Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u87	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at yesterday's sitting, the House of Deputies finally approved the measure under consideration for the period - as the previous speaker reminded me - between 1 October and 31 December 2013. The majority groups voted in a bad way, as several members of the Democratic Party have pointed out. It was, therefore, a meditated vote, not a random one and - I repeat - suffered. Moreover, we have witnessed the rebirth of the so-called broad agreements, because the Members of the Forza Italia-Il Popolo Della Libertà-Berlusconi Group, the President, voted in favour despite being in opposition; obviously, in the face of the issues of war and peace a reflection is given. The measure under consideration provides for fundamental steps. I am thinking of paragraph 3 of Article 1, which authorizes the expenditure of approximately 22.4 million euros for the continuation of the Italian military presence in the Balkans. The same article 1, paragraph 1, authorizes the expenditure of 124.5 million euros for the participation of Italian military personnel in the ISAF and EUPOL missions in Afghanistan, while the next paragraph authorizes the expenditure of 40 million euros for the participation of the Italian contingent in the mission of the United Nations in Lebanon. During the examination that took place in the Chamber - and that we had to follow rebound, in a speculative way - several amendments were approved and certainly not those to which he referred the harsh opposition that Left Ecology and Freedom led together with the 5 Star Movement. Thus, for example, the funds allocated reserve EUR 139,000 for the sending on mission of a diplomatic official to the Turkish-Syrian border area. Paragraph 2 of Article 6 reads as follows: An allowance shall be paid to the same official... and a flat-rate reimbursement of the daily charges for duty travel within Turkey. In order to carry out his activities, that official may use the support of two units of staff to be found on site. 800,000 euros are also allocated to the Italian contribution to the United Nations Special Court for Lebanon (Article 6, paragraph 3) and an expenditure of 151,600 euros is authorised to ensure Italian participation in civil peacekeeping and preventive diplomacy operations (Article 6, paragraph 5). In short, many issues have become entangled in a way of working that unfortunately has begun to be systematically proposed in the decrees of the Government, that is to say put everything and the opposite of everything. Not long ago, on the occasion of the examination of the decree against feminicide, I heard from senators exponents of the majority that it would be the last time that we would be faced with delicate arguments with an overlap of absolutely contradictory elements between them: well, here we are again in full and even with contingent times and the position of the question of trust, that is with everything that had been solemnly denied, precisely, not long ago, to the resumption after the summer break. I do not believe that this should happen at all, but it is systematically proposed. An important step in our contribution to international peace and security is the missions to Lebanon, which have been carried out since 1982. If since the beginning of the second post-war period Italy has participated in more than 100 missions, it is in recent years that there has been a strong acceleration of the profile of the involvement proper military: to 31 December 2011 our Armed Forces participated in 23 activities in 22 countries area, for a total of 6.677 military. In this context, Italy spends around 26 billion euros a year in the military sector, i.e. 70 million euros a day, and is the tenth world country for military spending. In Afghanistan, Italy continues to spend EUR 1.6 million a day to - we have to say - bombard and kill children often, tragically. Only a short time ago the AMX fighters of the Air Force hit two stations of hostile elements in the west of the country, we do not know with which balance of victims. Italian aircraft are increasingly being called upon to provide cover to troops fighting on the ground: for example, at the beginning of September Army helicopters were engaged for several hours to bomb Afghan guerrillas and through repeated response interventions, recited the military bulletin, the Mangusta have neutralized the threat to the ground and allowed Afghan forces to regain control of the area. In Afghanistan 1,756 children were killed or injured. It was said that with the mission to Iraq on the mouth of the cannons democracy was exported: we saw how it ended, and we are seeing how the situation is developing tragically in Afghanistan. Think of the solemn declarations that had been made to justify the military intervention, of war, in that grieved country: an intervention that should have been used to try to bring him back not only to democracy, but also to a situation of legality, that free him from drug trafficking, being Afghanistan one of the countries where this activity was carried out in a deadly way, with connections with the international criminal centers. Well, all the years of the war have multiplied this phenomenon and Afghanistan, as far as the opium market is concerned, has gained a position of absolute dominion in the international dimension. It was then said that terrorism had to be cut off. We think that terrorism feeds on this philosophy: war, opposition. So let's abandon the advertising phrases, which we often hear from the government, such as the one that claims that to love peace we must arm peace, while perhaps they send around, with incredible costs, the F-35, a weapon clearly of attack. Let us hear the views of those who understand military matters. We spend important resources, in this dimension of crisis and spending review, to adapt the armament system, for example for the aircraft carrier Cavour. But this Parliament had expressed itself both on the F-35 and on the fact that no resources had to be invested in the military sector, except for the safety of our soldiers, to give dignity to their work, of course, but not for arms that were bluntly offensive and not aimed at any defence element. To do this we mortify a work plan capable of generating employment in the areas of renovation and safety of public buildings, renewable energies, hydrogeological reorganization (the law of stability on this front has failed to do what was absolutely indispensable, even in the face of the tragedy of Sardinia), the valorization of cultural assets and our artistic heritage. In this sense, without such demagogy, we are certainly not pacifists of Antan. We were faced with a strong message about peace and war: that of Pope Francis. Faced with the question of what and who serves the war and the activities related to it, the Holy Father recalled with great simplicity that it serves those who sell arms. Without so many twists of words. 11:48 a.m. (see CERVELLINI below). Let us also take this courage to say and do consistent acts accordingly, so that the dramas arising from wars may be interrupted. We do not make our country look like a country of gun planners, sellers of horrible instruments of death; we do not send around the world our equipment, like the aircraft carrier Cavour, as if it were stalls to try, verify and maybe give extremely delicate countries the possibility to make purchases in the Italian armament system. Colleagues, we have a chance to reverse the trend, to change choices that, involving economic implications, prevent others. On the ground of peace we will always be giving battle, without if without but. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u89	I communicate that there is a delegation of Iraqi MPs and other authorities in the gallery, accompanied by Senator Adragna and Senator Bianconi. I extend my greetings to them on behalf of the House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u90	He's enlisted to speak Senator Minzolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no point in saying that I and the movement to which I belong, Forza Italia, are in a particular situation. On the one hand, we are convinced of the role that our country must play in international missions in crisis areas. We are convinced of this because we continue to believe in the system of alliances that has guaranteed us peace and democracy over the last sixty years, which is based on commitments and solidarity. We also admire the skills, dedication and preparation that our armed forces demonstrate in carrying out the delicate tasks assigned to them in these interventions. There is no doubt about that. On the other hand, however, for a matter of time, the Government was forced to put trust in order to be able to bring home a measure that must be approved by today in order not to expire. Not to mention that the funding that we are authorising in fact has already been spent, since it concerns the quarter of October-December 2013. In short, the Executive, demonstrating its already archaic inability to govern, is forced, in order to approve the measure in the required time, to give it, with the use of the vote of confidence, that political characterization that prevents that part of the opposition, sensitive to these issues, to make its own positive contribution. It never happened in the past or it rarely happened. But that's the way it is. After all, this difficulty in making the right decisions in the right times - which is one of the essence of governing - President Letta and his ministers demonstrate it every day. Just think of the roamable decisions that the Economy Minister Saccomanni has made on house taxes in the last six months. And apparently, the minister in question hasn't finished surprising us yet. More generally, it is the whole system of Italy that pays a structural inadequacy to the government: the decision of the Constitutional Court that delegitimizes this Parliament, this Government, the Head of State and ultimately the same Consulta shows that we are now at the final comedies. But let's get back to the measure. Well, let us be clear: we will be forced not to vote for it because of consistency with the position we have taken towards this Government, but there is no doubt that the measure also contains some critical issues. It does not see an innovative philosophy, nor a foreign policy that compares with the changes that have taken place in recent years within the international and internal framework. They refinance themselves pedissequamente, putting in place a superficial automatism, all the missions in which we are engaged, in some cases for decades. It goes on because of inertia, in some cases proposing the logic and atmosphere of the desert of the Tartars. We are not confronted with enormous problems that would require a change of attitude, of philosophy. You don't apply, and you motivate this cognitive laziness with an empty rhetoric as anachronistic. To scroll through the long list of missions in which we are engaged (we are the second or third country in the calculation of resources in men and means engaged in international missions), we have the feeling that the logic of the rain interventions that has done so much harm to the economy of our country: we are present everywhere and we count nothing anywhere, or at least we count little compared to the commitment that we put ourselves. Therefore, it is the whole philosophy of the missions that needs to be revised: not in terms of alliances, but in the characterization and selection of the areas of intervention. There are many reasons for this. Meanwhile, in the light of the economic crisis that our country is experiencing, we need a verification of our commitments, knowing that the phase has changed. If we want to maintain the support of the public, we must motivate our international commitments in more accomplished terms, also in the light of the national interest. We will talk about this for the future, but it is obvious that we must give priority to our commitments in the nearest and most strategic chessboard for us, that is, the Mediterranean region: I am talking about Libya, Lebanon, the problems related to migratory flows from North Africa to our country, which cause tragedies every day. On the other hand, it is clear that we must demand - I say demand - that this commitment and our presence in so many theaters of crisis also correspond to the fact that the international community recognizes us as a suitable role and weight. This is unfortunately not the case: it is not the case at the UN, it is not the case in Europe, it is not the case in international fora. It is a contradiction which is not a small one with our widespread commitment. You see, we cannot spend millions and millions in the fight against piracy in the Indian Ocean, engage men and means and be repaid with that monument to infamy that is the trial against our two marathons in India. It is not possible, it is not acceptable: it is worth the dignity of our country! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the extension of Italian participation in international missions. What I want to talk more about here is yet another refinancing of the activity involving the armed and police forces. I wonder and ask myself, putting myself in the shoes of a common citizen who hears this issue spoken regularly: have we ever seriously stopped to reflect on the effectiveness of this type of intervention? I say this because, in the exchange of previous governments, almost automatically and as if it were an immodifiable reality or a sort of inevitable destiny, it has persevered in allocating funds to the so-called peace missions. And not a few. In the text we are analysing today, so as not to spread too thinly, the expenditure on peace missions amounts to well over €751 million. I repeat: 751 million! Is it worth it? Or at a dramatic time such as what our country is going through would it be appropriate to use these figures for many other purposes, not least to offer financial coverage to the income of citizenship that we of the Five Star Movement have already presented and offered for Italy? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Only 40 million have been allocated within the budget: just the cost of the photocopies of the House of Deputies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover - and I remind myself in this Parliament - in Article 11 our Constitution (which should be considered sacred, while it is no longer sacred) states that Italy repudiates war as a means of resolving international disputes. Many of the missions in question were born precisely from the choice of using arms to solve issues that could and should be addressed using the path of international diplomacy, dialogue and above all respect for other peoples and countries. The only fair and deserving war is war on wars, colleagues. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u93	He's enlisted to speak Senator Gualdani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are about to vote provides funding for the participation of the armed forces and police in international missions and for the interventions of development cooperation, reconstruction and consolidation of peace and stabilisation processes, which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for the period from 1 October to 31 December 2013. The measure is in line with what has been practiced continuously since 2001 and also provides, with reference to the missions provided for in the same measure and with effect within the time limits laid down therein, the provisions to be applied to staff employed, as well as in criminal matters and accounting matters. These forecasts respond to the need to adapt the regulatory framework to the particular operational needs related to missions, in the absence of a stable legislative framework ensuring uniform discipline to be applied in all cases of participation of military personnel in international peace missions. First of all, it must be remembered and reiterated that the action of Italy and above all of the Armed Forces in international missions has always been characterized by an incisive commitment in the participation of military personnel in support of peace and stabilisation processes that has resulted in a general appreciation at international level in terms of authority and credibility of the contribution made, always giving prestige to our country and making it always a positive protagonist in difficult years for international security. A reflection must also be made which must necessarily touch on the responsibility of both the majority and the opposition. The request for a vote of confidence with regard to an area, such as that of international missions, which has always been supported by large parliamentary majorities, is a novelty to which the Government has been forced to resort in order to avoid the risk that our military and our co-workers may be exposed to conditions of insecurity, especially in the theaters most exposed. At this stage and at this stage, we have to approve a three-month financial cover with respect to an approach and programming that are already defined. Today, however, we would not even be in the right place and in the right place to be able to change and modify what has already existed for some time. The imperative, at this time, is to give a message of clarity in terms of law and institutional closeness to our armed forces, which, at international level, cannot be treated, much less carried out during the debate for the adoption of a measure covering the three-month period, which has now passed. At this moment it is a question of fully and dutylessly supporting the conversion into law of this decree-law. The price paid in terms of human lives was very high. However, these reasons that have always characterized the action and intervention of our Armed Forces have been peculiar in the context of the mission in Afghanistan that is entering a new and important phase, since it will be about managing the delicate return of the military, which needs a planned action with security implications of not little time. In this respect, a wide-ranging reflection is needed on all the issues highlighted by the debate that has just ended. It is clear that the framework of the missions that emerge today has changed a great deal over the years; so it is not possible to exclude having to intervene by specifying the various types of intervention. It will be necessary to revise the basic approach, starting with defence policy, until certain aspects of foreign policy are reconsidered. In this context, the examination of a framework law on international missions, aimed at ensuring the involvement of all constitutional powers, within the framework of the respective powers, must be reduced, providing, in relation to the authorization to intervene, the information to the President of the Republic by the Government, the deliberation by the Council of Ministers, the communication to Parliament of the resolution of the Council of Ministers, the assumption of the relative determinations by the Chambers and, on the basis of the latter, the adoption of the consequent legislative measures of authorisation. And it is precisely in this specific area that the particular operational needs associated with the individual types of military intervention will also have to be taken into account. In conclusion, apart from the different ways in which it is possible to consider and conceive the role of the Armed Forces, we must not forget - right now, here and on this precise occasion - that they have represented and best represent our country and that they have never spared themselves in terms of generosity until the extreme sacrifice that, unfortunately, has been paid in many circumstances, always with honor. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u95	Senator Alicata is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the draft law for the conversion of the decree-law on the extension of international missions arrives in this House. The discussion takes place at a time of widespread instability of the international geopolitical framework, with possible risks also for our country. In this context, international organisations, the UN, NATO and the European Union have set themselves the objective of stabilising areas of crisis from which dangers can arise, including for our borders. Italy is historically part of the European context and in recent decades has never failed to fulfil its commitments resulting from membership of international alliances with the objective of common security. Our country therefore plays a leading role in the international scenario on defence and security issues. This important commitment is manifested, moreover, at a time of serious economic conjuncture, which has led and will lead to a revision of the military instrument with a forecast, however, of an armed force of high quality and technology, albeit of considerably reduced structural and organic dimensions. It emerges, however, clearly as our country, participating for more than twenty years in more than 130 missions, has gained credibility and remarkable recognition, thanks to the high professionalism of our military. Years of missions and experience that constitute an undeniable, important heritage to draw from when the serious economic crisis that gripes the world feeds strong social tensions and risks of serious instability even at the doors of our home. The above makes it essential to refinance international missions where our military are engaged, as well as cooperation and civil reconstruction to consolidate peace in risk areas. However, it is clear that, in view of the many responsibilities that our country assumes, an increasing conditioning of the choices of international bodies that require our commitment should correspond. It must be made clear that Italy participates in international missions not only because it is required by these bodies, but because it believes that the mission can also coincide with our strategic interests. Has it been convenient, Mr President, to support intervention in Libya, in accordance with an inadequate American foreign policy and the unjustified pressure at higher levels, which has produced, in our days, the poisoned fruit of the exodus of desperate peoples, while Germany, the rich Germany, remained at the window? The commitments, of course, are maintained, but we do not think it is necessary to take for granted, in the future, the Italian participation in expensive, not only economically, missions that are decided elsewhere. I say this because our country has recently been seriously wronged about the kidnapping of the two Maròs, with our allies who, at best, turned to another side, perhaps also because of the superficiality of the Government, not necessarily the latter, who mishandled the affair. We have witnessed, in the circumstance, an act of over-archy and bullying by a country that, at the same time, saw its own sailors paradoxically saved by our military engaged in other scenarios. This irrational gesture was followed, above all by the previous Government, by a disarming superficiality. Foreign policy, Mr President, is for us politics. An unbelievable government in foreign policy makes the country unreliable. We wish the current Commission every success in resolving this matter quickly. Your credibility is at stake. Perhaps the life of our two maroons is at stake. In any case, the latest events testify that terrorism remains very active and the international missions in which our country participates serve to keep serious episodes of violence away from our borders. The sacrifice of our fallen and the work of our military has, until now, served to bring better living conditions in Afghanistan, the Balkans and in the other scenarios where our contingents operate, as well as guaranteeing security in Italy and Europe. To date, we have about 6,000 soldiers engaged in the various scenarios of world crisis: 32 missions in 18 countries. The greatest effort is, as is well known, in Afghanistan where nearly 3,000 units are currently operating which will conclude the transition phase to the Afghan security forces at the end of December next year. Commitments, therefore, onerous, appreciated and recognized at an international level that are certainly a qualifying point of our foreign policy, with undeniable repercussions of prestige and consideration for our country, thanks to the professionalism of our military. A valuable experience which should ultimately guide Parliament towards wise and shared choices, if only to honour the fallen Italian military and those who, still today, are and will be committed to ensuring peace and our security. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u97	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u100	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we are genuinely shocked at the government's decision to include in a single decree 21 between missions and military operations, involving the commitment of 6,000 of our soldiers abroad. Left Ecology and Freedom had asked, with purposeful spirit, to discuss in a decree apart from at least the mission in Afghanistan. We believe that the unbundling of the decree would have been a measure of common sense, because the mission in that country presents delicate aspects, which cannot be concealed within what is a real omnibus decree, which unites missions with very different characteristics, as different are the theatres of commitment, the forces on the ground, the purposes and the consistency of the contingents of our military. Each mission would have deserved an in-depth analysis, including in order to better guarantee our military engaged in these theaters and to enable Parliament's sovereign power to assess the political orientations, modalities and opportunities of this commitment. What does Afghanistan have to do with Kosovo, Bosnia, Lebanon, the Eastern Mediterranean, Hebron, Rafah, Sudan, South Sudan, Cyprus or missions to the sea of Somalia against piracy? I must not remind you, fellow senators, Mr President, what is the ISAF mission, the poisoned tail of the infinite war, propaganda as a Manichaean doctrine, which divided the world into two categories: either friends or terrorists (or the most potential accomplices of terrorism). The fight against terror as a preventive war erected as a new model of relations between States. Still shouts revenge the permanence of human beings locked up like animals in Guantanamo cages, some buried alive there for years after being kidnapped in some corner of the world to be deported without trial, suspended in a legal limbo that closely recalls the figure of the sacred man, the man reduced to naked life, superpressible by anyone for any reason, as the philosopher Agamben would teach us. Afghanistan reminds us of that bad season; yet, after 12 years, we are still there. We have transformed our presence, changing the rules of engagement, from garrison to guarantee the population in a presence voted to offensive projections, endowing us with increasingly sophisticated weapons, such as assault helicopters. 53 of our soldiers, 70,000 civilians, thousands of children have died in these years; civilians often mowed down by aviation or unarmed in gunfire without weapons in their hands. In that country, after 12 years, unfortunately, there are neither a functioning democracy nor even stable institutions; and while the Taliban and the fighting factions have never been eradicated, with which inevitably (with more or less silent and more or less semi-clandestine agreements) it has had to treat also the legitimate government and which are now indispensable for any attempt at peace more or less lasting. And what has changed? It happens that on the agenda of the Afghan political debate (think, in theory that country is a democracy), there is the re-introduction of stoning for adulterers. He is very sorry that we Italians were the international consultants for the reconstruction of the judiciary and criminal law once the war ended. There must not have been much left of that work, which has certainly been done with commitment and seriousness, if that is the Afghan political debate at the moment. Still - as my colleague Cervellini mentioned earlier - in Afghanistan, after 12 years of mission, 90% of the basic product from which heroin is obtained is produced, which from there flooded, thanks to the low cost, the world market for drugs. The opium market finances warlords, Taliban and non-Talibans, and feeds huge corruption, and is together the only culture that allows many peasants to survive in an economy destroyed by civil war. That is why we need urgent international cooperation to make it possible to convert crops. This is the situation, and it is humiliating that we think we will continue the ISAF mission while other countries, like France, have withdrawn without anyone daring to challenge this choice as an escape or as a betrayal. Our presence - as has been said - has so far cost 5.5 billion euros, against which we devote only a few hundred million euros to cooperation, ridiculous sums in a country that would need instead to strengthen the tools of civil coexistence. It is significant that the Afghan network has called for 30% of every euro saved in Afghanistan to be reserved precisely for international cooperation. It is a proposal that we feel we share completely. Every year we allocate EUR 26 billion to military spending, which apparently, Mr President, is exempt from the spending review. We are at the last place in European rankings for spending on culture, university, school, research, but we are in excellent placement for military spending. It happens, however, that we are the same country in which the Constitution repudiates war as an instrument for the resolution of international disputes: even admitting that Article 11 must be read in full and that it must be interpreted in relation to the commitments and burdens imposed on us by the alliances of which we are part, we would never have imagined that this interpretation was bent in such an imaginary way that it was made to say to Minister Mauro that, if peace is loved, then we must arm it. We will take 6 billion in the next six years in new military ships. The construction of the FREMM frigates alone will cost 2.5 billion, and we are also ignoring the timid motion adopted in Parliament on the F-35 purchasing programme. Other than spending review! We, Mr President, do not think that every mission is equal, and we do not understand why we should vote in the dark for the refinancing of this mission in particular, or perhaps we understand that very well, since NATO has long since not published statistics on the situation in Afghanistan. This is also why we are concerned that the new mission may represent a similar failure of the ISAF mission, exposing our soldiers to even greater risks. The doubt remains that, due to weakness and political short-sightedness, we are losing the opportunity to make a contribution and reverse a logic that, to date, has been totally bankrupt. We are also concerned about other aspects of the vagueness of criteria and objectives. What are, to say one, very important, moreover, the guidelines of our intervention in Libya? There too we have a manual case of destruction of a rogue state, as was said some time ago in the political gates. It was a war against a regime not a champion of democracy, whose leader however we welcomed here only a year earlier with all the honors of a Head of State, and then left that country in chaos. Again, at what risk do we expose our soldiers? With what times and with what rules of engagement? We need more than that. We should be interested first in the stability of a country like Libya, with which in the past we have made agreements that are often very questionable, confirmed also by the new authorities, which have transformed vast desert areas of that country into bearings against emigration to our country, dotted with real prison camps. We should have been bearers of the need for a peacekeeping mission, under the control of the UN, which after the war could have helped rebuild a state entity and instead we take on missions without guarantee of not falling into an unmanageable situation. The dramatic events of the Syrian civil war are still under way. It was already with the finger on the trigger in recent months for a new war: the fact that we stopped before unleashing a carnage greater than the one in progress - on this we recognize the commitment of the Government - shows that the road of arms is not necessarily the only one and that, instead, that of negotiation and international collaboration, if it fails to put out the fire, it does not throw any more gasoline on us. We will not vote for this decree, but we will continue to remind you that it is dialogue and diplomacy that constitute peace, and not bombers. We will continue to do so, even if we have little hope of being listened to, but let us say, we are somewhat used to it, since for many years we have been left completely alone to make these proposals. But this political season will pass, and this government will pass. The reasons for peace and rights, however, will fortunately never pass. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u103	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the imposition of the question of trust on the decree concerning the missions of our soldiers abroad forces the Group of Great Autonomous States and Freedoms not to participate in the vote. We are obviously sorry, because we have always been convinced of the importance of the missions of peace and the need for the role of interposition and of everything that constitutes meritorious action of our soldiers where they are engaged, which contributes both to democracy and to the building up of social peace. The missions have so far shown that our quotas have worked well, receiving esteem and admiration that have also reverberated positively on the image of Italy. Thanks to self-denial, professionalism and humanity - an Italian quid, among the most appreciated compared to others - our soldiers distinguished themselves in the areas of crisis. However, we cannot participate in the vote because this messy government, which acts in a confusing way, had much more time to devote to the debate, the deepening and the approval of the measure by the two Chambers. I remember that the decree was deposited in the House on October 10th. After the examination in the Commission on 5 November, the decree came to the Chamber of the House on 27 November, after 22 days of quarantine, to be postponed on 28 November to the Committees of Merit and arrived here from the Chamber of the House on 2 December for the Senate to approve it, given the scheduled deadline of 9 December. Of course, this is unacceptable: it bears witness to a clear compression of the rights of senators and parliamentary groups to have knowledge and time in order to make a serious and thorough assessment of the measure, a violation of regulations and established practices, which provide that the second Chamber is entitled to a reasonable deadline for the examination of decree-laws. However, for some time now we have been witnessing the conduct of the work in this House by President Grasso, who sometimes does not take into account the needs of the senators and the House itself, and the position of confidence in the bill of stability, with leaflets and charts and tables on which it was not even clear what was written, since those schemes are largely without content, is an indicative element of presspochism, hastyness, as well as the lack of a pulse that the Senate Presidency should have as a function of guaranteeing the rights of the senators and of the Senate Assembly. I want to make a brief digression, entrusting it to the government representative. In 40 senators we have signed an urgent question to the Minister of Health: 35 days have passed and we do not know when we can have the pleasure of being able to discuss it with Minister Lorenzin, who lets know - his goodness - that it would be available between the end of January and the beginning of February. I believe that someone in this House - particularly President Grasso, to whom I will entrust this complaint at the next Conference of Leaders - should explain to the Ministers, as is the case in the House, that they have to adapt to the needs of the legislative chambers and not us to wait for their gracious availability. I shall now come to the specifics. I have listened to my colleagues from the Left Group on Ecology and Freedom, to whom I give an act of seriousness and preparation (I would like to say that everything is common to us except political belief). When, on this type of measure, the apology of pacifism is made, digressions are made that have nothing to do with a warlike vocation of those who support them, because there is no possibility of doing this paradigm with those who vote the decree on missions. They are in fact missions of peace and interposition, missions that have defeated terrorism and allowed the control of the territory, the capture and killing of Osama bin Laden; of mission that have allowed to eradicate a large part of the qaedist cells that have so much threatened and so much death and destruction have brought. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of supporting arms manufacturers. I am reminded of an anecdote by John XXIII, who entered a suburban parish at the beginning of his pontificate and took charge of talking with the children, with the young people, and a child asked him: Holiness, but how is it that faith is 20 centuries old and there is still someone who does not believe? John XXIII replied: "See, it's like soap: it's not the soap's fault if there's someone who doesn't wash. The problem is not the production of weapons: it is the use that can be made of these weapons, because if these weapons are to defend civilization, democracy and the building of peace, then let them well come. If, on the other hand, they are an instrument of offense, aggression, occupation or threat to other countries, it is clear that it is not the fault of weapons if those who use them use them in a distorted way. Let me now turn to the theme of peace, which is different from pacifism, which - let us be honest - in this country has always been directed against the reasons of one of the two former superpowers, the United States, while they have always been subjugated and tolerated many other aggressions (from Chechnya to the aggression by North Vietnam of South Vietnam and the whole area of South-East Asia), because on the left there is - and there has always been - a little strabism. I would like to remind those who confuse peace with pacifism, and worse still with a pacifism that is labeled and oriented only in a certain sense, that it cannot be considered as a war-war-breaker who votes for a mission of peace that also has other purposes. Perhaps, if Chamberlain and the other Ministers of Free Europe had opposed arms to a madman like Hitler already in Munich, we would have spared much mourning compared to those achieved with the unarmed and pacifist politics that he thought he would hire in Munich in 1939.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u106	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have just heard Mr D'Anna call the government "pasticcione". In fact, we don't know how to define it anymore, we don't know if we have to say that it's messy, or that it's struggling. Apprenticeship should be finished: this should be the stage in which, when the machine is oiled, it goes into production. In the last few days a provision has arrived in the Senate on which the question of trust has been placed in the Chamber of Deputies, which has remained there for an indefinite time, with a guilty carelessness - almost a tracchettazione - except to realize in the end that there was no more time and that it was necessary to recover even running. I am told, even, that the Government wanted to make the measure lapse in order to re-present it and push on the times, forgetting that the Constitutional Court has stated the impossibility, in case of revocation of the decrees-laws, to repeat them with the same content (and in this case the content could only be identical). From a mess to a mess, you run, and you get to the Senate, and you do so by making the Commissions for Foreign Affairs, Migration and Defence suffer the humiliation of not even being able to examine the measure. Why? The measure came to the Senate, but there was no time to reason on the amendments. Why? Because the 5th Commission was not convened to give an opinion on the coverage of the amendments: in the absence of the opinion of the 5th Commission, the Commissions 3a and 4a cannot express their views, so the measure came to the Chamber without a rapporteur and without even having passed the normal process of inquiry in the Commission. This has led to the removal, even, of the functions of Members of Parliament. What contribution is being made at this point to the formation of this measure? It could be said that this is enough, but that is not the case. The Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr Franceschini, takes the floor in the Chamber and makes his point, after which he sits down. Then he asks again for the word, saying that he forgot to say something. I could have understood if he had to remember twenty arguments: by the nineteenth he could have forgotten the last one. On the other hand, Mr Franceschini comes to the House to put his trust; he gets up, talks, sits down and says he has forgotten one thing: I should ask for confidence in the measure. How can we define this government? Look, it's hard to oppose because we don't find opposition, but we find... We can't use the terms we want, but it really sounds like a first-rate apprenticeship. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Airola.]] On the content we should repeat ourselves. We continue to fund three-month missions in three months. Why? Can we ask why? Because we don't know if in three months we'll have the resources to move forward. But do we have to feel ashamed to say that we are going through the worst crisis this country has ever experienced and that we do not know how to cover the expenses? If extraordinary measures have been developed in the context of the spending review to review all commitments a little (the public administration must verify the revenues and expenses it has to face following criteria of essentiality, punctuality, objectivity and effectiveness), why can the same not be done for military expenses, for expenses that at this point we struggle to justify? I've had the chance to read all that series of micro-interventions. We have two men in one area, four in another, four in Cyprus, four in Beirut, two in Palestine, Niger, and so on. I don't read them so I don't tedious the coworkers. It still makes sense to have this myriad of symbolic covers, which I do not know if they actually benefit the country and if they really protect the interests of Italy, at least as a fallback on diplomacy and image. The two areas on which we have concentrated most, where we have the largest number of presences, are Afghanistan and Lebanon (almost 3,000 and 1,100 presences respectively). In order to verify the effectiveness of our action, I recall that we went to Afghanistan because we were called by the Western world to protect our interests in a war that seemed to come from a jihadist, international terrorism that focused on the great European and American capitals; it spared ours, but it was essentially an attack on our system and our culture. In Afghanistan they concentrate, train, recruit and train these terrorists, and therefore it is right to fight them in that country, because when they arrive at our home they have no face, they are not identifiable and therefore they suffer only the results of their activities. That was true when we left, but it is less and less true today. In fact, if we look at the attitude of the Kabul Government, we have to ask ourselves why we should stay. However, as already mentioned, France and the Netherlands have made their quotas part of the quota. The Kabul Government goes to negotiate with the Taliban and the Government of Pakistan to free those few terrorists still held in Pakistan prisons in order to find stability within it. Well, can we think of giving more blood for the stability of a country that has already decided its future, which must be mediation and negotiation? We have left some territories in the hands of the Afghan stability forces, and in those territories it is a massacre: we see a daily carnage. I wonder if it made sense our (it was also our) blood tribute. Probably not, or at least not yet. To conclude on Afghanistan, we thought that the Herat region and the capital were the safest areas in that country, but now we see that the same governor of Herat throws his towel and resigns from his office. There is such a situation that we have to ask ourselves whether it still makes sense to leave our quotas there. The situation in Lebanon is completely different: we are present in a massive way, but we are totally ineffective because the rules of engagement require us essentially to warn Beirut's forces without intervening. We know of the existence of convoys of weapons, which seem to come from the North, probably financed by Russia (we always use conditional); these convoys pass before the eyes of our military, but they cannot do anything, they absolutely cannot intervene. Does it make sense to remain under these conditions, that is, to witness a conflict with tied hands and - I add - sometimes even kneeling? With regard to the international image and benefit (perhaps the term is exaggerated) deriving from our presence in those territories, I would stress that last September, at the last UN General Assembly, space was cut out to carry out a deepening on the Lebanese issue, but our delegation was not even invited. Italy, therefore, is completely sidelined. Let's think about whether this still makes sense. In our view, it still makes sense to step up controls in the Mediterranean. Today, in fact, the Mediterranean is no longer what it was until a few years ago: in fact, the geopolitics of the Mediterranean constantly changes. We have verified that the only effective activity that our diplomacy has managed to build was that bilateral agreement with Tripoli, which has allowed in a few years to cut down almost 90% of the landings of illegal immigrants from those areas for economic purposes. We have not been able to change the text of the measure in question, because the question of trust has been raised on it. However, we are asking for a lot of attention to be paid to the fact that we do not spend more than 4 million to protect our citizens, as well as Italian interests, in war territories or in conflict and post-conflict countries. We translate what has been said: too many international organizations with excessive ease and freedom operate motu proprio, completely disconnected from everything, in those territories, and after it is claimed that the Italian State arrives, intervenes and pays for the ransoms. We say: let's avoid these things happening and have to pay ransom, because even the state bribe would seem too much to us! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Mr President, we would like to focus on the interests we have in the Mediterranean and, practically, to pacify our home, so that for objective reasons we cannot vote on the measure and, as requested, trust. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u109	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us, apart from any similar political exploitation, deserves all the respect, urgency and pragmatism that a legislative assembly should always guarantee. In this perspective, a much faster and faster process would have been appropriate, not only to renew the legal framework within which our forces operate in international theatres, and therefore to allow Italy to respect its commitments in a consistent manner, but also and above all to initiate an appropriate deepening and debate in order to define the 2014 Mission Decree, for which we will hopefully have more time. But, as everyone knows, it was preferred to create around the decree a frame that I would call deconstructive, of which frankly one could do without. There has been a real conflict in the House, with questionable amendments aimed at reducing and sometimes abolishing certain missions in which Italy - I repeat - plays a decisive role. Of course, it was an instrumental provocation, considering that it would have been in fact and above all illegitimate to precede in this sense in a few days. A clearly obstructive approach, which has degraded what was to be a work of deepening by the competent Commissions and the House, resulting in the questioning of democracy. What is difficult to understand, or rather, that some obstructive spirit seems not to want to understand, is that by this decree we do not just talk about missions and when and how they should be carried out. Here we are called to renew the credibility of the country and its role in international superstructures legitimized by pacts and commitments made. The military involvement and the pursuit of specific objectives of peacekeeping and international cooperation are one of the backs of Italy's credibility in foreign policy, not an optional one that can be abandoned depending on someone's political moods. One insists on mistakenly trying to categorize missions as peace or war, greatly demeaning the very meaning of the country's involvement and the ratio of international missions. If we pause for a moment on the meaning of Italian engagement in complex theatres such as the Afghan one - the subject of many accusations - any kind of critical reasoning would lose sense. Such a mission cannot be regarded as a military occupation, it would run the risk of showing historical ignorance and poor pragmatism, because a mission of that type was aimed at the construction of a scenario of security and democratic building, demanded, among other things, loudly by the Afghans themselves in 2001. It was therefore an evolving commitment, which has gradually been contextualized and adapted to a social and political scenario certainly in transformation. The conclusion of this commitment must also be seen as the achievement of a social and political maturity by local authorities and the population to enable locals to start a real process of self-determination. This would have been unthinkable if we had left that land at the mercy of insecurity and clan struggles; but perhaps this is forgotten instrumentally. Do you think it would have been feasible to achieve the important results of female emancipation without the ISAF mission? I ask you, ladies and gentlemen; I personally have some doubts. Do you really believe that the rebirth of a country and its economic reconstruction, after years of Taliban regime and after a significant conflict, can take place without prior stabilisation? I doubt anyone has the courage to say that. We must keep our feet firmly on the ground and really understand what international cooperation means. I tell the many colleagues who have made fake pacifism exagued their battlehorse. Of course, some aspects of the very configuration of the provision can be changed. We wanted to do it; it was not made possible. In this perspective is the hypothesis of a framework law, probably calendarized to the House, which distinguishes those on missions from all other provisions that risk weighing down the measures, with the hope that this new structure can minimize attacks and speculations by the usual obstructionists. With a specific framework law it will be possible to define the individual missions and the specific use of the Armed Forces, with the hope that the premises will be created to identify also the appropriate rules to regulate the role and modus operandi of our military under certain circumstances, such as that to us all known of the Maroons. Even in the light of these considerations and of the desire to create conditions more and more suitable and functional to the achievement of the objectives of safety, of which Italy has always been the maximum referent, ours is a vote in favour of the measure. And in doing so, we want to invite everyone to reflect on the role of our young people abroad and on the ability of them to always be a metaphor of that dignity and of that sense of duty that often seems to be lacking here. I therefore want to renew to them the most sincere thanks for the ability to show that there is still a beautiful Italy. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u112	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Group will vote in favour of this measure. We do so in the continuity of a vocation and tradition of international and Western solidarity (Mr D'Anna went back many thirty years). I think, also to follow the debate as it has been articulated, that many considerations of my Divine colleague before me, who broke mission by mission, were partly shared, in part much less. But I have the impression, not only and not so much because the Government has been forced to put the question of trust in order not to see the decree expire, that the most global approach to the measure of my colleague Di Biagio is what better interprets, in terms of international politics, the continuity of the presence and action of Italy. We always claim as a country, beyond the positions of majority and opposition, the continuity of our international policy on the two great degasperian choices of the immediate post-war period: Atlanticism and Europeanism. I would say, however, that in the last twenty, perhaps twenty-five years, by the Spanish Government and by the command of General Angioni in Lebanon, if we want to talk about the continuity of our international policy, we must refer precisely to our missions. The presence and action on world territory of 6,000 soldiers in almost 20 missions represent the international credibility of our country. And it would have been really irresponsible to put it at risk because of the bullying of a branch of Parliament that, perhaps because of the pacifist and third world sensitivity of its President (but I don't even want to think of it), considered it correct, thinking and speaking from a bicameral point of view, to hold the measure for more than 55 days and put the Senate in the condition in which it was found yesterday afternoon in the Commission. So, from this point of view, pro futuro, I think that the methodological proposal put forward by Senator Di Biagio, which then meets the needs represented by Senator Divine, can be interesting to discuss and examine more in detail the presence of our armed forces in international missions. However, it would have been an act of real irresponsibility, in times of budgetary session, not to make time to approve this measure and leave 6,000 soldiers, and if you allow me the Homeland, in those conditions of institutional uncertainty in which so many easy and qualunquistic gargisms of antibicameralism many times place us. Hence, Mr President, the strong vote in favour of our Group. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u115	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, we have been called exagitated pacifists; I respond with true, relaxed warmongers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Italy repudiates war. Italy repudiates war. Italy repudiates war. Italy repudiates war. I repeat it four times. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , but I could repeat it all the time in my speech, and this would clearly and simply express the whole sense of our position towards this yet another step towards war and against peace. Our Constitution doesn't use half terms, it doesn't use bland terms (we don't agree, we don't agree), but it uses a categorical term of contempt, which leaves no doubt: repudiation, indignation, disgust. War stirs up disgust and repudiation. Colleagues, all citizens, we are about to vote for the refinancing of war missions abroad and we will vote against them for two reasons. The first is the method, and that is why we are voting against not only this, but many other government measures. This decree was issued as a matter of urgency by the Government and covers the financing of war missions from 1 October to 31 December 2013. Today is December 5, 2013. It is a mockery, gentlemen, it is a mockery: we approve of a measure which has already carried out all its effects and which, if it were not approved, would have devastating effects. How can one think of keeping our military forces operating abroad by means of a measure issued at nighttime, which has risked on more than one occasion of decay, given the fragility of this Government, which had to resort to trust and which also had motions of distrust, because of the shocks received? This is a late measure, on 9 October, which left our military for eight days without economic, legal and political cover. I repeat: eight days. How can a country that sends its armed forces around the world, in very dangerous war scenarios, seriously be defined, entrusting their logistics to decrees issued from time to time in an emergency, three months in three months? What will happen on 31 December? Someone tell us: is the new decree ready or we will have to approve it in February, when its effects will be over, as it happens every three months? You will open the oxygen valve for another three months with an urgent decree that we will find to approve, as usual, quickly, with a confidence in flight. Not to mention the iter, on which everyone intervened. This decree was stopped for 55 days in the House. What is the consequence? You have actually applied the monocameralism that you so long for. In this way you have mortified the parliamentary debate and used a single branch of Parliament to approve the decree. Perhaps you were afraid of confrontation in the House in both rooms. Maybe you were afraid of confrontation in this very House. [[Applause from Senator Airola]] , which is perhaps the most representative of Parliament's heterogeneity, tripolarism. Minister Franceschini said that in the past this type of measure was passed with the support of oppositions, of those who were not in the majority. This doesn't happen anymore. Well, Minister Franceschini asks himself a question, but the answer is also given. It does not happen anymore because now there is an opposition that brings the citizens' demands; because now there is a majority in this House and there is an opposition outside, which is made up of all Italians, against this Government [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which no longer has the consent of the Italian people. But let us now turn to the merits of the measure, to its contents. As on many other occasions it has been done, I would like to quote Pope Francis, to whom his ears will now whistle, and his words: "Peace possible, no more weapons." Here is the key word, the element that unites all the politics of military interventionism: the weapons that we produce; weapons that we export; weapons that we sell in countries where there is war, but also where there was no such thing as it, so that we can intervene always with the same weapons to bring the so-called peace. The anti-personnel mines, for example (already mentioned by my colleagues), which we produce, sell and for which we then mobilize to clean up. It is EUR 750,000 that we have produced and sold the mine mine mine mine mine mine. We use weapons to arm peace, says the Minister of Defence. Arming peace is an oxymoron that we do not accept. Peace is brought with peace and not with weapons. The proliferation of war leads to the frenzy of the ever more powerful armament, in a sort of penis envy. We demand to bring democracy with arms, but let's bring war! We will have heard from our fathers what happened in Vietnam: they wanted to bring freedom to that place. What were the weapons for? We'll have heard from our grandparents what happened in Libya and Somalia. Now the relatives of the veterans visit their dead in the military cemeteries. What were the weapons for? While today our children's bodies return home with all the military, civil and religious honors, wives and parents have the faint consolation to weep at home. What are the weapons for? Military missions - I stress - abroad must be abolished. The idea that the military mission can be reconciled with peace should be deleted. The side effects it produces are never included in the political debates and final budgets. How can it be argued that, with military missions abroad, we export democracy, when we do not want to take into account the opinion of the Italians and the judgment of the people who suffer this pettyly defined humanitarian invasion? The allocation for the humanitarian part, for cooperation, is less than one tenth of the total. What is the model of peace and democracy that we spread in the world, then? The one in force today in Val di Susa? Taranto's ILVA? Niscemi's? Is this the democracy that we export and demand to export to the world? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Or is it that of the dead at work or the dozens of entrepreneurs who take their lives because of the failure of their companies? Is this the democracy we want to bring into the world? Your concept of democracy and peace is fake like the bronze faces you perform at the funerals of our fellow countrymen killed abroad, in front of the coffins wrapped in the tricolor that these reckless missions give us back, missions that do nothing but increase hatred and intolerance. The war is here too, it's within our borders and pretend you don't see it. A war of survival against poverty, poverty, injustice, impunity and social inequality. A silent and unheard war that could become loud and deafening. We therefore call for the abolition of the re-financing of military missions abroad and the immediate withdrawal of our troops from those territories. We need resources and men to revive this country. Have the courage and honesty to move men and resources to the Italian people. A real peace financing. We must transform the sword into aratro, always to quote Pope Francis, who also said: But when will all this happen? What a beautiful day it will be, on which weapons will be disassembled, to be transformed into tools of work! What a beautiful day that will be! And that's possible! Let us bet on hope, on the hope of peace, and it will be possible! I shall conclude by quoting another person, whom I saw as a ghost today, because I do not often see him in the Chamber, the former Minister Tremonti, who said that culture is not eaten; well with military missions abroad instead someone puffs up abundantly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u118	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Group, in its initiatives in Parliament, in all the legislation and in the responsibilities of the government it has assumed, has always strongly supported and promoted the military peace missions, those carried out under the auspices of the UN, those made with NATO and those made by the European Union. Still we are well aware of the fundamental role that Italy, thanks to our military, is playing in Lebanon, in the Balkans, in Somalia, in the Horn of Africa, up to the distant Indian Ocean. In twenty years we have supported 130 missions, and they have served. Some countries that were the scene of our missions entered NATO, started intense exchanges with Western reality, made prodigious progress towards a stable democracy and regained their freedom. I say this in days when, perhaps with little attention, the sacrifices of many Italians have been remembered. In November there was the anniversary of the ten years of Nassirya: we remember with emotion and regret, but also with pride, those days, with the Altar of the Homeland covered with flowers, with those our soldiers who were honored by Italy as a whole. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We say that ten years later, thinking about their families, those wives and those children, some of whom we have met so many times in recent years, proud of their parents. I say this to those who are skeptical: you should take lessons from some of those fallen sons. You would also say less nonsense to the Senate of the Italian Republic. We have always made a clear choice for the West. We have supported the fight against international terrorism, and the governments led by Silvio Berlusconi have been determined and determined in this respect. I also want to claim at this stage the protagonism of those governments and the fact that both in international missions and in the great agreements of peace and dialogue (I remember the treaties and meetings between the Russian Federal Republic and the United States of America, which took place a few kilometers from here, in Pratica di Mare, at the initiative of the Italian Government and Silvio Berlusconi) we were the promoters of dialogue and peace at all levels. We have also done so because we are convinced that we are taking part in military peace missions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We have therefore supported and will support these initiatives. We know that there are 6,000 of our military, women and men, 32 missions in progress in 18 countries. These missions have exported rights and democracy. There are data that speak: literacy, which has grown in Afghanistan and other countries; women's rights, which have been promoted and protected in countries where the compression of those rights is unfortunately still in many respects a tragic reality, a legacy of fundamentalisms that still wish to oppress those peoples. And then, yes, we must also use the aratro (Senator Crimes, it is said aratro, not aratro), but I also want to say that our military have acted more with ladles than with weapons in helping the people in many parts of the world! And we are proud of this, and our armed forces are proud of it! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Compagna]] Unfortunately, others have used weapons, and we have, alas, a long list of martyrs and fallen who honor our homeland, who have been killed by those who have hindered those who defend rights, freedom and democracy. Today, our senators, such as Senator Alicata and Senator Minzolini, have highlighted some problematic aspects. We continue these missions until 31 December, so in a few days we will talk about it. Perhaps, however, we need to focus more on Italy's attention in some geographical areas. And I also want to say to some that, while we are convinced in supporting military missions, we would like to understand what they say today about the degree of democracy and freedom of Libya or Egypt those who greeted the Arab Springs with too much superficiality. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Compagna]] We are not nostalgic about dictators, but we have horror at the wars between gangs that are taking place, alas, in those countries, with all the consequences of migration and despair. Perhaps one was right even when there was some prudence in arming armies and making wars, perhaps he decided too hastily. The center-right government of the time, which was accused of waiting, perhaps had seen more clearly what would happen. So there is a lot to talk about: new missions, how to concentrate the Italian commitment, how to concentrate the expenses. There is the spending review and we will also have to decide how to use our limited resources. But we can't change part of it. I also want to say that we take the opportunity to urge the government. I do not address the blameless Undersecretaries who bureaucratically represent the Government here, but above all I say to the President of the Council and to the Minister Bonino that the issue of the Marò cannot be a cowardice of the Italian Republic! He can't take it anymore! You can't take any more of this cowardly system! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Compagna.]] And as our colleagues in the House have said, we are not only in solidarity with Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, but we thank their families for the demonstration of composure and seriousness, even if 600 days have passed since the beginning of this affair now unacceptable! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Compagna.]] We urge the government to finally reach a final point. Mr President, after having made it clear that we are with the West exporting rights and not arms and that we are with democracy and with our military in all parts of the world, the Senate has been asked the question of trust for reasons - I understand - of procedure and of time: the decree is running out, in the House someone has obstructed, the times have lengthened and the decree, almost expired, expires in these hours; therefore, confidence is a technical fact. However, we cannot vote for trust. There are two votes in the House: one on trust and one on provision. As Mr Rocco Palese said, speaking of trust, we did not vote for trust. And Mr Elio Vito, President of the Defence Commission, presented the vote in favour of the measure. The Rules of Procedure of the Senate are different: the vote is unique and we cannot distinguish the two moments. Our Group therefore decided not to take part in the vote at a meeting with President Romani and his fellow Members. There can never be a vote against the armed forces and our military, that is clear. There will never be a vote against foreign policy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Compagna.]] And many colleagues will remember that there was a tearing debate when, at the time of the Prodi Government, we voted in favour of peace missions, with a government that did not have the numbers to ensure a decent foreign policy for our country. And it was the government of Prodi and the left. So, we have shown attention, generosity and love of Homeland. On this occasion, the single vote does not allow us to distinguish these positions. Our choice, however, is very clear: with the missions of peace, with our Armed Forces, with Italy that must make its voice heard with force and authority; not with the Government, for many other reasons that we have illustrated (and this is certainly not the time to talk about IMU, about taxes and the law of stability, because other colleagues have done so in recent days). Therefore, by not participating in the vote we will not have a position of hostility in any way, but we do not want the confidence to be smuggled with an attitude of poor seriousness: we have made a painful choice, meditated and motivated, of global judgment on the Government, and we confirm it today. But we are with our military, with our armed forces, who will always be able to count on our affection and support because they are a reason for our pride! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u121	TONINI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, the Senators of the Democratic Party Group will give confidence to the Government and will therefore vote in favour of the measure on missions abroad. We too would have preferred - as Minister Franceschini said this morning - not to be able to vote on the question of trust on a subject like this, because in the tradition of our Parliament, a tradition now more than ten years ago, the decree for the financing of missions abroad has always been a bipartisan measure, shared by governments and by a substantial part of the oppositions, depending on the different political phases of our country. This, I believe, is a heritage that must be safeguarded. Personally, I feel the need to apologise to colleagues who would have liked to approve the measure and are unable to do so (I refer, in particular, to colleagues and opponents of Forza Italia). In the same way, I feel the need to apologise to my colleagues for the opposition that is contrary to the decree and that they would have liked to develop in a broader way the arguments of their opposition. However, I believe that, with the same intellectual honesty, we can recognize, each other, some reason and some mitigating to this situation, the main one of which is the absolute novelty of the distribution of the times between the House and the Senate, which penalized the Senate in an intolerable way. The extension of the debate to the Chamber for fifty-five days has objectively put the Senate in a position to vote on the measure in a few hours. This I believe is a fact that must not happen again. I think that the presidency of the Senate must take steps to deal with the House Presidency in a precise way so that such incidents do not happen again: it is not acceptable and conceivable that the 60 days that Parliament needs to convert a decree the vast majority of the time, fifty-five days out of sixty, is absorbed by the debate in a single House. This concerns first of all the responsibility of the presidencies of the two branches of Parliament, but also the behaviour of the political forces. In fact, after having apologized in particular to the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement and SEL for having compressed, with this procedure of the works, their opportunity to express themselves, I cannot fail to recall that the House was obstructed by these same political forces that helped to lengthen the times in an intolerable and unsustainable way. I therefore believe that this confrontation must be continued between the two Presidencies. In addition, we proposed a pact last night for the opposition forces to avoid a vote of confidence, asking them to withdraw the amendments and to limit themselves to leaving very few to vote with the possibility of a full day dedicated to the debate. This pact has not been collected, and today we are therefore voting in such a situation. Of the two other brief comments I would like to make, the first concerns the fundamental question: the meaning of our commitment. Before, my fellow Senator Crimi used very harsh words, accusing these missions of being an instrument of war. I do not share this position, which I naturally respect, and I would like to call for a more complex and comprehensive reading of Article 11 of the Constitution and even of that biblical quotation which, using the words of Pope Francis, Crimi wanted to introduce - I think usefully - in our debate and in our discussion. You see, Senator Crimes, the full quote is from the second chapter of the Book of Isaiah, which reads: At the end of the days, the mountain of the temple of the Lord will be built on the top of the mountains and hills, and all the nations will flow to it. Many peoples will come and say, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the temple of the God of Jacob, that he may show us his ways, and that we may walk in his paths." For the law shall come out of Zion, and the word of the LORD out of Jerusalem. He shall judge among the nations, and shall be a judge among many peoples. And then they shall cast their swords into plowshares, and their spears into sickles; and a people shall not lift up their sword against another people, neither shall they exercise themselves in the art of war. Well, these words, my colleague Crimi, are carved in English outside the United Nations Palace, which is in very small approximation the attempt to make concrete in history the great utopia (religious for those who are believers) of Isaiah's prophecy. The United Nations Glass Palace is the place where one tries to exercise the most difficult art of political mediation and international law. Well, all these missions of ours, as Article 11 of the Constitution prescribes in a strict manner, all our missions have been possible only because they are within this channel of international law, they have the full legitimacy of the United Nations, which is the concrete temporal instrument through which we try to make the utopia of the "forge their swords in plowshares, their spears in moths" something possible and realistic. This is the meaning of these missions of ours; a sense that recalls the theme of Article 11 of the Constitution, which does not prescribe to Italy a selfish pacifism that makes us say: leave us alone, we do not want to know about the problems of the world. 13.16 (Followed by Mr Tonini) It prescribes Italy an active pacifism, interventionist as it were; a pacifism that says: we must commit ourselves to building an international order based on justice and peace. And if we go to assess in a complex and articulate way (because it is not easy to make this assessment) the historical effects of our missions, we see that they have contributed significantly precisely to the construction of that order based on peace and justice. Yesterday we met with the Croatian President, who came to thank Italy for the great contribution that our country has made to Croatia's entry into the European Union. Through him we recalled the tragedy of the Balkans that bloodied the passage between the two centuries in the heart of Europe. Well, with him we have also remembered how it was thanks to Italy and the interventions that our country together with the international community has done and continues to do in some areas of the Balkans if those territories, those populations, those countries have approached Europe and today are within a virtuous path that is leading to a system based on justice and peace. This is the meaning of our missions, after which there is all the space for a critical analysis of every single mission; it is necessary, it must be done and it is Parliament's task, but this critical analysis will be all the more effective, all the more credible, at the least it will be ideological and the more concrete it will be in the evaluation of the results: from the greatest mission we have, the one in Afghanistan, which is coming to an end - by 2014, as prescribed by international agreements, the mission in Afghanistan will be concluded - up to the smallest of the Italian missions, up to that only our military present in the difficult and decisive crossing of Rafat, in charge of controlling that location so delicate and so sensitive. This is the spirit in which we vote for trust in the Government and, through trust in the Government, this provision: a spirit in which we confirm our commitment to keep Italy among the countries that, as prescribed in Article 11 of the Constitution, move to build an international order founded on justice and peace. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senator Fravezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u122	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u123	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 1190, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 114 of October 10, 2013, in the text identical to that approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on which the Government raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of the Senator The Judge is drawn by lot.) Exceptionally, to Senator Angioni, who had a very serious mourning in the family, we allow to vote before his turn. It's the only exception. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Lo Giudice. (The Senator Secretary of Giorgi and, later, Senator Secretary Barani make the appeal). (In the course of the voting operations, the Presidency shall take the place of - at 1.28 p.m. - at 1.28 p.m., at 1.28 p.m., and - 13:33 -). The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bilardi, Borioli, Bubbico Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Caridi, Cuomo D'Adda, D'Alì, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, De Monte, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippingo, Di Giorgi, Dirindi, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fattorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippini, Filippingo, Fincori, Finferi, Finferi, Finmore Giuseppio The senators: Airola, Arrigoni Barozzino, Bellot, Bencini, Bertorotta, Bisinella, Bitonci, Blondo, Bocchino, Bottici, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Bell, Candiani, Cappelletti, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Cervellini, Ciampolilo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio Davico, De Cristofaro, De Petris, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Fattori, Fucksia Gaetti, Giarrusso, Girotto Lezzi, Lucidi Mangili, Martelli, Martelli, Molinari, Montevecchi, Moronese, Morra, Munerato, Mussini Nugnes Orellana Paglini, Pepe, Petraglia, Petrocelli, Puglia Romani Mauri Santangelo, Scibona, Simeoni, Stefani, Stefano Taverna Uras Vacciano, Volpi. (In the course of the vote, Senator Barani stated that he did not vote.) I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 114 of 10 October 2013, in the text identical to that approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 228 Senators voting 226 Majority 114 Favorables 159 Contrari 67]] The Senate approves. It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 114. 14.22 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u126	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to invite my fellow Members to stay in the Chamber, so that they can have some audience, but I will be brief. The story that I present to the attention of the Assembly is complex and goes back to 2009, when, following a question on the incentive premiums paid by the City of Florence to its employees, ministerial investigations were started on the ancillary allowances granted by the Florentine administration since 2000, followed by the intervention of the Court of Auditors, which contested the way in which it was paid due to the absence of selective and meritorious criteria. Following the observation of the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the City of Florence, instead of taking action to find political solutions to the situation which was rapidly falling, considered it more appropriate to cut wages and put its employees in default, even before an effective ruling by the Court of Auditors. As the basic union denounces, while municipal leaders and trade union representatives have been sent back to judgment for the alleged responsibilities in the signing of the supplementary agreements and in the alleged erarial damage, the current mayor - I do not know if you remember the name, Matteo Renzi; it is now a mantra in these days - seems to be limited to assigning every responsibility to the previous administration. Too committed to complacency in the television lounges, the non-Mayor of Florence, in eternal electoral campaign for the conquest of the center-right electorate, has distinguished himself in this affair for the ability to download the managers he himself appointed and for the kind words reserved for the workers. It is to be thought that Renzi took the ball to jump to exploit the situation in his own favor, and in an already national perspective, to accredit himself to those who think that cutting wages to civil servants in any way is a necessary condition to heal public spending and the country, thus winking at the prejudice - unfortunately widespread - that all civil servants are privileged and idle, so as to exploit the electoral return of such a position. In the municipality, however, there are graduate and graduate people, over fifty, who have been working for the municipality since the late 1980s. They are smart people, who have always worked, who used to take 1,300 euros a month and now, after the treatment Renzi, takes 1,200 euros. I wonder: are they the ones who harm Italy and now have to pay the bill? The idlers in the public sector - as there are, moreover, parliamentarians and mayors absent (and in the matter of absenteeism Renzi is second to none) - harm those who work seriously. The feeling is that the non-Mayor of Florence has this time moved with the right level of superficiality regarding the solution and the true merit of the problem, throwing it into political marketing. "Calling them Fantozzi would give them a compliment" he said referring to the workers and workers of the municipality and defined a "pagliacciata" as an assembly of them in front of the municipality. It is a way of expressing itself and dealing with the social partners who, if perpetuated, are likely to ignite their minds and protest. A dangerous and inconclusive electoral cynicism. Also because the problem of Florence could have a domino effect. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. BENCINI (M5S). Two seconds and I'm done. In Siena, too, the Court of Auditors issued a letter of formal notice to Councillors and Trade Unions, having found similar situations to the case of Florence in the award of ancillary allowances. It is perhaps right for the legislator to address this issue in such a way as to protect workers who see their claims in retrospect which they have perceived in good faith and in accordance with agreements concluded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It really ends, senator: there are three minutes available for interventions at the end of the session. BENCINI (M5S). You are very kind, President Calderoli: I miss a few words. It is perhaps also necessary for mayors to return to take full-time care of the problems of their citizens and to think less about their scale of power and election. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u129	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen (most of them have gone away), in my brief speech I would like to highlight the very difficult financial situation facing the small Italian municipalities, which is determined by the constant and gradual reduction of transfers of resources, and by the obligation to deal with the Stability Pact, which considerably reduces the possibility of making investments, as further imposed in the decree for the cancellation of the second IMU instalment. The spotlights of the media and newspapers are constantly focused on national politics, often on issues and issues that have nothing to do with the needs and needs of citizens, and unjustly neglects the hard work that, in almost impossible conditions, is carried out daily by the mayors of small municipalities, the only administrators who, in the current national political landscape, are truly in close contact with the territory and aware of the difficulties that families live every day. The drastic reduction in the transfer of resources inevitably affects the scope of the mayors and their effective potential to affect the performance of their duties and duties, especially in the provision of assistance services to the population, in road maintenance, safety and education. As usual, it is only and exclusively the citizens who pay. These difficulties are now amplified by the chronic regulatory uncertainty in the area of local authorities, especially in the tax field, and consequently by the impossibility of seriously planning their interventions. Very often, it is spent on the basis of estimates and then, due to subsequent changes in local taxes, the same expenses already incurred cannot be covered. [[Recalls of the President]] I'll finish in a moment. In recent weeks we have had a clear demonstration of these problems, with continuous changes made by the Government in the impositions on the house and on the waste (the TARES, the TRISE, the TASI, the IMU, up to the new IUC) on which the municipal budgets are based, which are now forced to yet another stiffening, as the entire amounts will be due by the citizens to cover the services. It is not possible to meet the needs of citizens if the mayors are emptied of their duties and powers, if they are not allowed to invest, to make a stable estimate and to be able to rely on resources within their own resources. A few days ago the mayor of a very small town in the province of Lucoli, Lucoli, confided to me these problems and its difficulty to put in place social policies for the elderly, disabled and poor families with the small resources that were transferred to him. Especially in a small municipality, a mayor, who receives - in this case - a maximum allowance of 670 euros per month, cannot afford to look into the eyes of his fellow citizens, who do not know how to help.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u130	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-147.ana.u131	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 10 December, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.31 a.m.
