ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.40 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 16 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:45 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u4	The next item is: The Government's communication on the draft legislative decree concerning supplementary and corrective provisions of Legislative Decree No. 61 of 18 April 2012 laying down further provisions on the regulation of Rome Capital. The Minister for Public Administration and Simplification has the floor, Dr. Patroni Griffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reason why we are here is a draft legislative decree correcting the previous legislative decree on Rome Capital. For the sake of clarity, allow me to briefly recapture the process. As they know, in implementation of Law No 42 of 2009, Legislative Decree No 156 of 2010 concerning Rome Capital was adopted. This decree was subsequently supplemented by Legislative Decree No. 61 of 2012, which completed the legal framework of the new entity, proceeding with the conferral of state administrative functions in Rome Capital. With the draft legislative decree under consideration, provision is made for the additional and corrective provisions of Legislative Decree No. 61 of 2012, exercising a faculty of additional or corrective delegation provided for by the delegation law. The scheme was approved in advance by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2012 and provided for amendments to Legislative Decree No. 61 essentially times, first, to safeguard the coordination between the negotiation of the objectives of the Internal Stability Pact between Rome Capital and Government and the general discipline in the matter of territorial stability pact; secondly, to eliminate the forecast contained in the old Legislative Decree on direct financing to Rome Capital of the essential levels of performance and service objectives; thirdly, to introduce provisions on legal aid in the management of Rome Capital. The draft legislative decree adopted in advance by the Council of Ministers thus began its whole process. It has been submitted to the opinions of the territorial authorities concerned, acquiring the favorable opinion of Regione Lazio, Province of Rome and Rome Capital, has acquired the understanding in the unified Conference, with a request, on which we will return, from the ANCI and was then transmitted to the competent parliamentary committees. The Chambers V and 5a Committees and the Senate gave a favourable opinion, but a number of conditions for the favourable opinion were laid down by the Bicameral Commission for the implementation of fiscal federalism; conditions which were mentioned in a series of integrations, even quite numerous, compared to the preliminary scheme approved by the Council of Ministers. The draft decree again transmitted to Parliament, that is what we see today, contains a series of amendments to the text approved in the preliminary session that derive precisely from the transposition of the conditions imposed by the Bicameral Commission, fully transposed by the Government. In particular, this is the forecast contained in paragraph 2 of Article 1, which repeals the rule that refers the provisions on Rome Capital to the metropolitan city of Rome Capital; this has also become necessary for the coordination with the law of stability regarding the ordering of metropolitan cities. A total transposition is also in the forecast that repeals the transitional rule contained in the law of stability that provided for the aid of the Municipality of Rome to the achievement of the objectives of public finance; moreover, a complete transposition there is also as regards the request concerning the sponsorship of the part of the Court of the State of the management of the commissioner of Rome Capital. For the remainder of the conditions required by the Bicameral Commission, the Government in the preliminary draft considered to share the ratio of the conditions attached to the opinion given by the Commission, but to make some specific changes and additions, and it is on this part that obviously it was imposed the referral to the Chambers, having not been the total adaptation to the opinion of the Bicameral Commission. Therefore, the three points on which the Government has not fully transposed, or supplemented, the conditions attached by the bicameral commission are as follows. Firstly, there was a condition in which the government text dismissed in the preliminary session was called for to be supplemented, with a view to introducing a transitional regulation on the remodulation of the programme of interventions for Rome Capital. To this end, the Bicameral Commission has requested (and the Government has accepted this indication) that a process be outlined to fill the regulatory gap in terms of remodulation of the resources already financed, or a different allocation of the resources themselves. The integration that the Government has included with respect to the condition of the bicameral Commission concerns two aspects: firstly, to provide for the concert of the Minister of Economy and Finance, in order to foresee an involvement of the state administration in the process of remodulating resources; secondly, to clarify that any remodulations take place in compliance with what is obvious in trend trends and in any case to invariance of burdens. The second point on which there has been a non-full transposition of the Bicameral Commission's indications concerns the powers of order by way of derogation from the mayor of Rome Capital, and this for a essentially technical reason that I will try to clarify. In the formulation posed as a condition by the bicameral commission it was provided the possibility for the mayor of Rome Capital to provide by way of derogation to the implementation of interventions on its territory in case of declared state of emergency for situations other than those deriving from natural disasters and with unlimited duration. This wording posed a number of critical issues, particularly in connection with the reform of the civil protection system which Parliament itself had approved in the 16th legislature. The Government therefore, instead of intervening as requested by the Bicameral Commission on the legislation on this matter, which now limits the declaration of emergency status only to emergencies arising from natural disasters, has thought to accept the spirit of the opinion. It provided for a power of order by way of derogation from the mayor of Rome Capital in matters relating to traffic, mobility and noise and air pollution, but it no longer linked it to a declaration of state of emergency, which in the legal system is now linked to natural disaster, but to a plan authorised upstream by a resolution of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the President of the Council of Ministers. This is precisely because it is the power of order by way of derogation in matters not related to natural disasters. The third and final point on which we have deviated from the bicameral Commission's opinion concerns a question of direct financing in relation to charges arising from local public transport. The bicameral commission has asked - we keep in mind that a direct financing was not contained in the schema of legislative decree approved in the preliminary part - to introduce a direct financing for the burdens deriving from the local public transport, with exclusion of the burdens connected to the railway transport. An agreement was also requested between Roma Capitale and the Lazio Region for the determination of the share of Roma Capitale. Once the quota was determined, of course, direct financing would be provided to Roma Capitale. This condition of the bicameral commission contained in its purpose, aimed at ensuring a direct share of financing to Rome Capital, obvious criticalities for the manner in which it was formulated. This is why the Government, once again receiving the spirit of the request but adding to it, modified the request in the following terms. Firstly, direct financing is planned in Rome Capital of local public transport costs, but not excluding rail. This is because a separation of what was intended for rail transport and, of course, it was a technically very complex issue, not to say impossible. Second, the understanding between Roma Capitale and the Lazio Region for the determination of the quota put back to the direct financing of Roma Capitale was seen by the Government as a positive fact, on which however it was necessary to make two clarifications. The first clarification was that, in the mores of the understanding, the resources had to continue to be provided in favor of the Region. Otherwise, we would be faced with a stalemate. With regard to the second clarification, it has been clarified that the quota, and therefore the object of the understanding, should necessarily concern that pertaining to the Lazio Region in order to avoid, as a consequence of the understanding, a breach of the plafond destined to other Regions. Finally, we made it clear that the share for Rome Capital should be determined by ensuring neutrality on public finance balances and that, therefore, within the framework of the agreement, the objectives of the Internal Stability Pact of the Lazio Region and Rome Capital should also be re-determined. As you can well see, with regard to the requests for conditions put forward by the bicameral Commission, we can say that some of them have been fully incorporated into the scheme brought to your attention, and therefore nothing at all. On the other hand, we have raised a problem with regard to the conditions of the bicameral Commission, which, although we believe have been transposed by the Government, has been a problem with some additions and modifications. This has led us to believe that the legislative provision that the Government should make communications to the Chambers should be implemented in respect of the points to which it intends to depart from the opinion of the bicameral commission. Excuse me. This is perhaps a very complex matter and I hope I have given sufficient clarification. Anyway, I'm here to provide more.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u6	I declare open the discussion on government communications. Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I speak in this House as a senator of the Democratic Party, but also, for a very few days, as city councilman of Rome Capital. This is a task that I have been honoring for over 19 years, thanks to the support always received by the Roman citizens. In my opinion, serving one's own city is, from a political point of view, how much more can give satisfaction, because the continuity of daily relationship with the big neighborhoods, with the municipalities and with the citizens all, leads you to have the pulse of what happens in your territory. By decrees Rome Capital has been defined - by now - also Metropolitan City of Rome Capital. It gathers an immense territory. Rome is as big as the largest nine Italian Provinces put together. Rome, for those of you who do not know, is also the largest agricultural municipality in Italy. Usually, when you think of the great agricultural municipalities, you think of the great plains and the great granaries of the country; no, Rome is the largest agricultural territory in Italy, which means that over the years the administrations that have moved have preserved the territory and this immense heritage. I say this because the decrees for Rome Capital that have changed over the last few years have nevertheless brought to the administrative machine of the City of Rome - or Rome Capital, as we say now - great and substantial changes also with regard to representation. For the first time, in a month and a half, in this municipality we will vote with a small number of city councillors, who, with the decrees, has dropped to 48. Fortunately - I say this thanking all of you who have been to Parliament before me - the law on double gender preference has allowed an extended representation of women also in the Administration. I would remind you that in the current municipal council, where 60 municipal councillors sit, there are - unfortunately - only three councillors. I wanted to say this in order to introduce some specific issues. My speech will be very brief on the current decree and the motion for a resolution that I have tabled together with my colleagues Mr Tocci and Mr Astorre and Mr Zanda. In modifying, with this decree, the previous one, the Government made some right moves, which modified the text that came out of the bicameral commission. I will focus in particular on two points: the possibility of the mayor making orders by way of derogation and, as Minister Patroni Griffi explained, the concert between the Ministries. I emphasize that this decree arrives, with respect to the timing that we had also expected as City Council of Rome, with some delay. In fact, it is not an innovative decree with respect to the functions of Roma Capitale, but it is only an amendment to the previous legislative decree no. 61 of 2012. This is a political Chamber, where we can make tactics and talk about fork, but it is a Chamber in which we cannot hide behind certain situations: the delay of this decree is derived from a very strong friction, which lasted all last year, between the mayor of Rome and the president of the Lazio Region, just about what the Government has changed compared to the direct arrival of funds on Roma Capitale, which instead by the bicameral Commission has been modified by making them pass through the Region. In the first version of Legislative Decree no. 61 of April 18, 2012, the mobility resources were allocated directly to Rome Capital without any agreement with the Lazio Region. All this certainly constituted an error and it was good that such parting has been modified by the Government creating - precisely - the parting of funds for local public transport through the understanding between the Municipality and the Region. This leads to a great improvement in the mobility situation in Rome for two reasons. In the first place, the system of transport on iron and in particular on rubber of the Municipality of Rome is characterized by urban and extra-urban routes that very often overlap with each other and sometimes even the extra-urban transport, when it enters the City, plays local functions; therefore, on the same transport can affect an extra-urban function and a local. On this point, it is good that the funding is concerted. I think of the great areas surrounding the city of Rome, all those small municipalities (some of which will enter the belt of the Metropolitan City), where now reside hundreds of thousands of commuters who come to work every day in Rome. On the railway that runs the line from Civitavecchia to Rome, passing through Ladispoli, Cerveteri and other small municipalities (I don't know if any of the present has ever used it), in the hours of commuting, in the morning and afternoon, there is such a flow of people that you cannot even sit. Therefore, it is clear that the financing concert on these lines is more than fair. The second point concerns the Roman railway system which consists of more than 330 kilometers of local railways; it also largely works as a service that is outside the areas of the city of Rome, but from the entrance into the city it also works as an external subway. That same line, which I have already mentioned as an example, from the first stop inside the ring road (which is that of the Aurelia) to the subsequent ones of San Pietro, of the Termini station and of the Ostiense, runs from the external metro. Let us turn briefly to Law No. 396 of 15 December 1990, which is the first measure on Roma Capitale. Let us reflect on the fact that already 23 years ago Parliament had raised the question of how to finance its capital and therefore had posed the problem of how to support Rome Capital within all the other municipalities. Let us also reflect on the fact that the rules that have followed actually make this measure a little worse in the financial aspect because the relationship between the State and its Capital has in fact been emptied and has been definanced in relation to Law No 396. There are no more infrastructure programmes and the only financial commitment is certainly a commitment of current expenditure, but it is determined year by year; therefore, even for the administration, even for the mayor with full powers and even with superpowers such as those of the ordinances, it is increasingly difficult to make programming. Therefore, current expenditure is being financed, unfortunately more than half as much as the approximately EUR 200 million of the previous rule that I recalled. Then, in order to support the metropolitan area and Rome Capitale we need to return to a financial plan of certainties, but certainly we cannot solve the problems of Rome by giving the mayor commissioner powers without adequate resources. With regard to the powers of the Commission (as highlighted in our motion for a resolution which will be presented by Mr Tocci), we asked that, before the mayor comes to the Council of Ministers to have his programme of powers approved, this programme should either pass into the council room or, in any case, be kept in mind the guidelines given by the Chapter Assembly, precisely to ensure that there is a real relationship with the territory and with the elected representatives who represent it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Onghia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u8	Senator Ferrara Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u9	Mr President, I am speaking again and I reserve the right to do so in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u10	Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on another aspect of this appropriate measure presented by the Government. As you well know, as Minister Patroni Griffi knows, one of the main problems raised by the legislative decree of 18 April 2012, n. 61, concerned the conflict between the Lazio Region and the Municipality of Rome, in particular the recourse to the Constitutional Court that the President of the Lazio Region had to do. The move of the chamber of council of the sentence of the Constitutional Court from March to June I think it is appropriate and in this period of time it is inserted this modification that pertains in particular to the destination of the funds of the local public transport (as regards both the Municipality and the Region it is a financial lot not indifferent), introducing a principle that should be the basis of federalism, therefore at the basis of a correct relationship between the institutions, that is that of the loyal collaboration. According to this principle, the corrective decree currently under consideration provides for an understanding within the funds allocated to the Lazio Region. This too has gone to resolve the doubts that colleagues from other regions had rightly, i.e. whether the local public transport fund for Rome should be deducted from the overall fund or from that of the Lazio Region. Therefore it is specified that it is within the framework of the fund destined to the Lazio Region, but that there must be an understanding between the Region and the Municipality so that then it can be destined directly to Rome Capital. I therefore believe that a principle of loyal cooperation and not of recourse to the Constitutional Court should be the basis for cooperation between the various institutions. About local public transport, for anyone familiar with the large metropolitan area of Rome, certainly for Rome one of the most serious and most important problems concerns traffic. Therefore, resources, instruments, interventions, solutions to problems in this area and in this direction must be absolutely encouraged and supported. I think it's one of the biggest problems that Rome and its hinterland have. The other aspect which is called for and highlighted in the motion for a resolution, as Mrs Cirinna said, concerns the Metropolitan City. I take inspiration from this measure to remind everyone that 2014 should be the start year of the Metropolitan City. Let's talk about a large area: Rome - according to the last census - has 2 million and 600,000 inhabitants; its Province has 1,400,000 inhabitants. So we are talking about a large area of 4 million inhabitants, which needs a government for broad area issues, from health to transport, to infrastructure. Let's think of the port of Rome located in Civitavecchia, the airports in Fiumicino and Ciampino. I believe that a synergy, and therefore a government of the processes of vast area, is indispensable, also and above all in the light of the now indifferent suppression of the Provinces. It is essential to have a large-area government that safeguards the specificity of Rome, the capital of Italy and the world capital of Christendom: we have seen it in recent times with the election of Pope Francis. It is certainly one of the most important realities in the world but the reality of Rome and its hinterland, which consists of 4 million inhabitants, needs a government. Then, the commitment to the government and also of course to fellow Members of Parliament is to be able to proceed in a swift, real and concrete manner, without further referrals. We are talking about the Metropolitan City since the reform of local self-government, Law No. 142 of 1990; we are talking about it but we have never done it. We have also foreseen the metropolitan cities in the Constitution, and I think it is appropriate to go on this route quickly. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u12	Senator Palermo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u13	Mr President, I would also like to thank the Minister for the clear presentation he has made to us of the procedure that led to the measure under consideration, which is certainly very significant and interesting. I note a detail which, however, has not yet been highlighted here. This is already, as we know, the third decree on the implementation of Article 24 of Law No 42 of 2009 on fiscal federalism, and it corrects the previous decree of last year. From what can also be seen from the Minister's report and the technical report, this decree has essentially two aims, if I can trivialize: to bring technical additions, on which I do not dwell, necessary for the application of the previous legislation, and above all to put stakes, even clearer than those already there, on the prohibition of producing additional burdens on the state budget. In particular, it is reiterated that any remodulation of the program of financial interventions cannot result in an increase of the requirements for the realization of the works inserted in the same program (this would be the new text of article 3 of Legislative Decree no. 61 of 2012). In the same way it is also stipulated that there should be a concert with the Ministry of Economics and Finance for any remodulation hypothesis, a limit of the invariance of the burdens for possible remodulations, etc. The extraordinary power that the Minister mentioned to adopt orders from the mayor is also limited, inter alia, by the prohibition of additional burdens on the state budget and by the fact that the same union orders can only be adopted within a plan authorized by the Government. If the point is very commendable to allow the operation of an important aspect of the legislation on fiscal federalism and to prevent additional costs (two noble and commendable objectives), it must also be emphasized that once again, unfortunately, the conciliation of these objectives is done in order to place the territorial administrations under protection by the State, in this case by the Government. It is also a proof that the only provision that operates in the opposite direction in this decree is the result of an appeal to the Constitutional Court of the Lazio Region, as already anticipated by a colleague, who in reality, precisely to prevent this decision of the Court, eliminates the previous system of direct provision to Rome Capital of the additional resources destined by the State for the special interventions aimed at achieving the objectives of article 119, paragraph fifth, of the Constitution. The decree that is proposed to us in fact takes account of these observations but only - the Minister reminded us - in the matter of local public transport. Also here, I am not sure that this new discipline completely solves the doubts of constitutional legitimacy already raised by the Lazio Region, also because the decree here provides for the understanding with the Region, but lets assume that in fact in this way it would end up subtracting to the availability of the Region itself resources otherwise due to it, and this is not entirely clear. The forecast of the understanding between Roma Capitale and Regione Lazio, referred to in article 1, paragraph 7, of the decree that we are discussing, makes me think - but this to me is not entirely clear - that for the other LEP (the other essential functions), apart from the local transport, the Lazio Region is instead competent to establish the quota to be allocated to Roma Capitale: I ask the Minister if it is so, because it is never specified (and, if so, it would certainly be an opportune thing). Generally speaking, having differentiated funding criteria depending on the different essential levels of performance may create further confusion, thus also procedural and bureaucratic burdens, with the risk of higher costs. So perhaps we should be a little careful about this: a single forum for consultation in this respect could perhaps help. I would like to conclude with a wish: I do not believe that this attitude of the Government - which I described at the outset as "paternalistic" - towards the territorial and local autonomy (in this case of Roma Capitale, but the subject is of course much wider), which characterizes the entire law on fiscal federalism and, even more so, its implementing decrees, is really the only way to guarantee budgetary discipline; I do not believe it personally or even as a Group For the Autonomies we believe it. Finally, the problem - which has already been raised - of a transitional discipline for Roma Capitale, which coincides with the territory of the Municipality of Rome, remains, of course, when, for over twenty years, the discussion on metropolitan areas has been open. Here I do not repeat what my previous colleague has said, but I close with the hope that this decree will indeed be a stimulus for the establishment of the metropolitan cities, which would also make the reasons for a differentiated financial regime for Roma Capitale less than the ordinary one that is hoped to characterize the metropolitan cities. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u14	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u15	Mr President, Minister, Senators and Senators, the amendments to the legislative decree for the Rome Capital Order, in our examination, have become necessary because the text of the decree differs in some respects from the parliamentary opinions already expressed. From the moment of the expression of the opinions themselves to the present time, there have been regulatory changes that obliged the Government to the current communication, which contains precise requests for variation. The procedures used by the Government in order to reach the present text agree with us. We are in the presence of unanimous concordant opinions and uniform opinions by numerous representatives of the local authorities involved, from the mayor to the president of the Province, to the regional presidency. Among the most important changes and for which a satisfactory solution has been found, it is certainly to be counted the attribution to the mayor of the power of extraordinary order for the emergency connected to the traffic (as provided for in paragraph 4), also in derogation to every provision of law, even in the framework, within the limits and according to criteria indicated in an authorized plan with resolution of the Council of Ministers, in compliance with the general principles of the legal order and with charges charged to Rome Capital. This easily overcomes the difficulty associated with the reform of civil protection, which occurred less than a year ago, and without incurring, in the matter of emergency orders of the mayor, in the dangers, jumped to the attention of the public in the past, in the matter of public order, with reference to the so-called mayors sheriffs. Another solution, in paragraph 7, which we are convinced is that of the proposed method of financing local public transport and rail transport. The difficulties connected to the transfer of resources that involve not only the Municipality and the Lazio Region but overall the procedure for the division, between the Regions all, of the single state fund on the local public transport, are overcome defining that the distribution of the resources to Rome Capital takes place only within the quota assigned to the Lazio Region, thus excluding the other Regions, and inclusive of the charges relative to the railway transport. The resources to be paid directly to Rome Capitale will be defined by a common-region agreement and, in the more of the same, will be guaranteed the supply of resources in favor of the Lazio Region. Also within the framework of the understanding must be redefined the Internal Stability Pact, the Region of Lazio and Rome Capital, in order to guarantee neutrality on the balances of public finances. Then there is an addition of total relevance of the Government, as it is not reflected in the previous hearings, and it is the one that concerns the remodulation of the programming of the interventions of Rome Capital. The Government has integrated the provision previewing that the definitive approval of the deliberation, defined from the Minister of infrastructures and the transports, is adopted in agreement with the Minister of the economy and the finances and that eventual remodulations of the participations does not involve an increase of the necessities and therefore that there are no negative effects on the balances of public finances. We believe that this forecast is justifiable in general terms, but since the requirements relating to the Municipality of Rome, as Capital of the Republic, any remodulations must not fall solely on the Roman citizens, in terms of tax increases, but on the general taxation. Here there is a fundamental theme, not contained in these amendments, but which will have to commit the new Parliament, about the order of Rome Metropolitan City, Capital of the Republic. In fact, it is no longer possible to postpone an adequate, harmonious, effective definition and therefore corresponding to the extraordinary specificity of Rome, starting from the concreteness of the policies of the vast area, starting precisely from the patrimony of the State in the city and from how it is managed. In recent months and even in these days very delicate events have characterized problems that the new Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, as emerged from the vote, certainly have the duty, I believe also and above all the abilities and the will, I mean of women and men who want to open a season of real change, not only announced every time, but practiced, that improves the material living conditions of citizens, here and now (we speak of the Roman ones and the vast hinterland metropolitan). In general, we are called to show maximum determination to address issues and problems on which the past, even recent, has seen the failure of politics, not knowing how to give answers and even less solutions. I am talking about very concrete things, which on the Roman area, more than in general, weigh heavily on the lives of millions of people: mobility, public transport and waste disposal system first. Responsibility, like positive actions, can no longer be postponed. The change, however, is in place at the Lazio Region and is imminent to the Municipality of Rome. Whatever the electoral outcome, we will have to be able to use this new condition of complete renewal that has been created in the institutions and in the local authorities of reference. The commitment of Left Ecology and Freedom on this ground is everything. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u16	Colleagues, I would like to greet the young people of the middle school of the Institute "Father Angelico Lipani" in Rome, who follow our work carefully. [[Applause.]] We thank them for this participation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u17	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u18	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the corrective decree before this House raises serious concerns, both with regard to its content and with regard to the manner in which it was presented. We therefore believe that the communications you have made, Minister, are certainly not enough to overcome these concerns. First, it should be noted that the deadline for the expiry of the delegation, foreseen for the definitive adoption of this corrective decree, pursuant to the Law on fiscal federalism (Law No 42 of 2009), is set in three years from the date of entry into force of Legislative Decree No 61 of 2012, which is precisely the precedent of the one under consideration. That is, the deadline would expire on 2 June 2015. In the presence, therefore, of a resigning Government and loose Chambers, with political elections already held for February 2013, clear reasons for institutional correctness should have led to the adoption of the legislative decree: there was no reason for urgency and the times for the exercise of the delegation - it should be emphasized - are very wide. The framework for procedural forcings and ill-adjusted and unrespectful institutional behaviour is quite clear and we cannot fail to note this even during the debate here. When the bicameral commission for the implementation of fiscal federalism examined this corrective decree at three successive sessions in December 2012, it should be noted that no representative of the government competent for the matter, both with regard to institutional and financial aspects, participated in the proceedings of the Commission, despite the obvious and repeated invitations of President La Loggia. No representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance spoke, nor did you, Minister for Public Administration and Simplification. Nor has the Minister for Regional Affairs, Dr Gnudi, or, for example, the Minister or Secretary for Relations with Parliament intervened. In the end, in order to ensure the necessary presence of a representative of the Government at the time when the amendments were to be debated, explained and then voted on, as well as the proposal for an opinion (as it was then done), it was only possible to refer to the representative of the Government present, namely the Secretary of State for Cultural Heritage and Activities, therefore not competent on the subject, who could not but refer to the decisions of the Commission. With regard to the substance and content of the decree under consideration, it should be noted that it has changed - this is true - in relation to the opinion of the bicameral Commission. First of all, it is necessary for us to point out that the Group of the North League has also expressed the clear opposition to the opinion given by the bicameral Commission, so much so that one of the two rapporteurs on the measure, belonging to our Group, because of the obvious inacceptability and non-satisfaction of the amendments that were tabled, felt that he had to resign from office. Our dissent, which we reiterate here, is motivated primarily by a fundamental reason. In Law No. 42 of 2009 on fiscal federalism, a rule of delegation had been inserted concerning the discipline of the law of the Municipality of Rome as Capital, which should have taken into account the specific functions carried out, precisely, as Capital of the State, which, however, should have been of transitory nature, so as to apply, it is expressly said in the law, until the implementation of the discipline of the metropolitan cities. With legislative decree no. 61 of 2012, instead, the delegation was used to confer to the Municipality of Rome - and this must be said and emphasized here - in a basically permanent way powers, prerogatives and privileges that make this Municipality a particular entity, different from all the other Municipalities, a sort of super Municipality, which incorporates the competences of the Province and even tasks and functions of the Region or the State. The special prerogatives that are attributed to the Municipality of Rome by Legislative Decree no. 61 are numerous and concern both institutional and financial aspects of absolute importance that, going down more in the technical, I cannot fail to emphasize. Suffice it to think of the assignment to the Municipality of administrative functions of the State and the Region; the institution of a special session in the unified Conference, with the direct participation in it of the mayor of Rome; the special powers also in the matter of organization and discipline of the staff. On the financial side, then, the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 61 place the Municipality of Rome in an even more obvious condition of anomaly and privilege. Special procedures are laid down for the multiannual programming and financing of infrastructure development operations. I would like to remind my colleagues in the PD Group that there are clear reasons for difficulties in terms of road and infrastructure in Veneto and Lombardy too, with thousands of workers moving every day, with vehicles and heavy goods vehicles. Therefore, even from the point of view of the Internal Stability Pact, it is only for the Municipality of Rome that the possibility is introduced to agree directly with the Minister of Economy its contribution and to exclude important categories of expenditure from the constraints of the Pact; while the constraints (we know well how heavy) of the Stability Pact apply to all the other Municipalities of Italy. The opinion approved by the bicameral Commission used the corrective which we are now examining not to limit, but to further extend the prerogatives and special powers which the aforementioned Decree No 61 had already assigned to the Municipality of Rome. From here we can only derive the reason for our firmest opposition. The further strengthening of the special status of the Municipality of Rome concerned in particular two aspects. First of all with the opinion it has been demanded the insertion in the legislative decree no. 61 of 2012 of forecasts that extend in an abnormal way the power of the mayor of Rome to adopt ordinances in case of state of emergency declared on the basis of the general discipline in matter of civil protection. It was also envisaged that the state of emergency and the consequent power of order of the mayor, by way of derogation from the general rules, which apply to all other municipalities, would not have a limited duration, as it should have been, but would have continued until the state of emergency, adopted by resolution of the Council of Ministers, was expressly revoked. Secondly, the opinion also called for the direct provision of State resources to Rome for the financing of the essential levels of benefits and for this provision to be supplemented with a further forecast that, again by way of derogation from the general rule, it was expected that State funding, as we have said, relating to local public transport, would be granted directly to the Municipality of Rome. It is true that the new text that we are now examining, compared to that opinion, mitigates certain aspects and in some respects deviates. You mentioned earlier, Minister, that the mayor's power of order is now exercised only in the case of emergency situations connected with traffic, mobility, air and noise pollution, and that orders must be adopted in accordance with a plan approved by the Council of Ministers, and this must be done. The derogation from the general legislation for which the state of emergency and the mayor's power of order would have been of indefinite duration in the case of Rome is also eliminated. In addition, as regards the direct distribution of funding relating to local public transport, the new text specifies that the share owed to Rome Capital must be determined within the quota allocated to the Lazio Region, which then has to redistribute resources within its territory, among the municipalities, in accordance with the general system. In addition, a financial neutrality clause has been included with regard to transitional rules. It must, however, be noted here - and I am sorry to go into technicalism in particular - that the changes brought about by the new text can be regarded as improving if compared to the opinion that had emerged from the bicameral Commission, but they cannot be considered satisfactory at all. Many others are the anomalies contained in this decree and therefore clearly emerges a political position of ours that can only be opposed and that, perhaps in the explanation of vote, we reserve the right to argue. It should be recalled that the direct allocation of state funding to a municipality is contrary to the constitutional provision, so that the State grants directly to the municipalities only financing for equal purposes, not related to the normal exercise of functions, while in matters of regional competence, such as local public transport, it is the Regions that have to exercise programming and allocation functions of the funds. For this reason, it is easy to assume that, on the point, the corrective decree issued precisely to avoid the continuation of the action that the Lazio Region has opened, with appeal filed in July 2012, in fact will not be suitable to overcome the litigation. In addition to the deletion of the measures contained in the Commission's opinion, this corrective decree should also repeal the most obvious elements of singularity which Legislative Decree No 61 conferred on the law of the Municipality of Rome, namely the special arrangements for planning and financing infrastructure developments and, in particular, the provisions relating to the Internal Stability Pact. For these reasons, I announce the presentation by the Northern League Group of a motion for a resolution which, in expressing an assessment which cannot but be negative on the communications which you, Minister, have made here today and on the text that has been forwarded to us, commits the Government to withdraw it as inappropriate, not urgent and above all as it contains statements of undoubted constitutional illegitimacy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u19	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u20	Mr President, I would also like to stress a certain discomfort that always strikes me when discussing the problems of capital in Parliament, problems which, as we have seen this morning, are being dealt with either by elected Members of Parliament in Rome or by those who have always been proud of the constitutional issue of Roma Capitale, such as the representatives of the League Group. I believe, instead, that we must reiterate and recall the reasons for the constitutional recognition of the role of Capital which, not by chance, was inserted parallel to the introduction of a greater federalist articulation of the State and, therefore, for a reaffirmation of the values of the national unity that Capital interprets in Italy and in the world. And as far as Rome is concerned, it is not only the institutional, political, historical and monumental values of our country, but also those linked to being the seat of Christendom and therefore, as such, to speak to the whole world. I also act as a member of the Committee on Bicameralism which that legislative decree approved. I believe that this should be seen not only as part of the process of implementing the constitutional rule on Rome Capital, but as a step towards the adjustment of the system of self-governments which has been under consideration for many years and which has not yet been implemented. And it is not realized because the resistance to change, which in words is declared instead to want to fight, are strong, and are strong in particular in our country in the organization of the local government: the code of the autonomy - we remember it now as a ritual fact - date to 2006 and for the umpteenth time in this legislature has been sank; the reform of the Provinces the Minister knows well how it has ended; the metropolitan cities are in the middle of the ford. Roma Capitale, then, is in some way an opportunity to anticipate an important reform of the system of autonomy, because Rome itself is a metropolitan city. While the other so-called metropolitan cities are centers of a metropolitan area in which so many other municipalities have to protect their administrative and historical identity, and therefore do not accept to adhere to a project that in their opinion would dilute this identity, Rome is in itself, because of its geomorphological characteristics, a metropolitan City and, therefore, is the place where you can anticipate this model. Of course Rome also has its contradictions, and the contradiction of Rome Capital Metropolitan City is called Regione Lazio, because the Lazio Region, if we cut out the Municipality of Rome, is a doughnut in which remains a large hole and a very small edge. So, what's the point? To live together these two entities that are claimed and claimed essentiality. I personally, with a proposal that I recognize to be a bit radical, but in my opinion consistent with a vision of real change, on the eve of the past regional elections I had proposed, not by chance, the abolition of the Lazio Region and a more marked acceleration of the transformation of Rome Capital into a real district of Capital, as other European countries, especially Anglo-Saxons. However, once we have made the choice to protect the binary structure of Regione-città di Roma Capitale, we must guarantee a principle that I believe should be the compass today but also tomorrow, when we have to rewrite Title V of the Constitution, which seems to me to be one of the reforms on which it is largely appropriate. What is the fundamental rewriting of Title V that the country asks for? That of specializing functions, of saying that each level does one thing, is financed for that and is not conditioned by the other levels, because, otherwise, this kind of federalist pyramid becomes an unsustainable pyramid under which citizens and businesses are crushed by the mechanisms of reciprocal prohibition of each level that prevent the decision and, above all, the imputation of the substantial element of federalism, that is, the imputation of responsibility. That is why I believe that the bicameral committee on federalism was right in its approach to the question of transport, and I regret that sometimes we change our opinion according to who plays the institutional roles and not because of an objective assessment of the adequacy of the institutional structure. Members of other groups in the previous parliamentary term also agreed that there should be a very clear distinction between competences, responsibilities and financial flows with regard to mobility between the municipality and the region, and this, Mr President - let me say - not only responds to the principles I said, but to practical experience. In fact, the practice that the Municipality of Rome has lived in the last 15 years tells of a very complex relationship between the Municipality and the Region regarding the financial relations relative to the government and the management of the local public transport. This last not only determines an essential condition of livability of the metropolitan area, not only is a very expensive service because the metropolitan area of Rome has a huge dispersion of the inhabited and therefore the cost of the local transport is very high to satisfy the demand of the citizens, but it also represents the decisive share of the financial structure of the Municipality of Rome and also, historically, of its level of indebtedness, determined by abnormal costs in the past never brought to efficiency in an integral way, because never has it proceeded in the Municipality of Rome to a true and complete liberalization of this field. However, there has been a phenomenon in the state-region-common supply chain, both on the part of the funds but above all on the provision of financial flows, which invested the Municipality of Rome, which was the terminal point of the supply chain, in relation to the resources that financed the service contracts. In this regard, I would also like to express at least some doubts as to the alleged difficulty of distinguishing and identifying separately the cost of rail service from that of road service, since they are the subject of separate service contracts and should, by their nature, have differentiations. So much so: once the resources have been allocated by the State, they have historically stranded in the coffers of the Lazio Region, not out of malice, but because it has so many problems, in the first place that of financing health care: as is known, in fact, the Lazio Region has the highest level of unpaid debts in the health sector towards the enterprises of the territory. This means that, since the money does not have color, once it arrives in the coffers, those of the transport are confused with those of the health care and, since the Region is pressed by its creditors, the money of the transport goes to the creditors of the health care. And the City of Rome no longer sees the money destined for local transport. Having said that, I express my deepest concern about the proposed amendment and, above all, I draw the attention of the Government to the fact that the rule contained in paragraph 7 of Article 1 of the corrective legislative decree represents - in my opinion - a sort of incitement to criminals. It is said in fact that, until there is the famous understanding between Rome Capital and the Lazio Region - an understanding that contradicts the principle of specialization of functions and autonomous responsibility for each function (it is exactly one of those mechanisms of prohibition and blocking that determine a difficult management of the decision-making process in federalism) - the funds remain at the Lazio Region. It is therefore obvious that the latter will tend to never reach the agreement, so as not to deprive itself of the resources it needs to finance a budget in very large deficits. Therefore, in understanding the reasons that prompted the Government to adopt this measure and sharing other parts of it, I still draw the Minister's attention to what I consider to be a lack of coherence with the general principles of evolution of federalism and above all the risk of a lasting and repeated financial difficulty of the Municipality of Rome, which results in an increase in financial costs because, if the Municipality of Rome does not have the money from the Region, it goes to take them from the banks. I therefore recommend that the Government take further consideration of this point. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator De Pietro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u21	I declare the debate on government communications closed. I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions have been tabled: No 1, by Senators Tocci and others, No 2, by Senators Bitonci and others, No 3, by Senators Gasparri and others. I call on the Minister for Public Administration and Simplification, Dr Patroni Griffi, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u22	Mr President, the Government is in favour of the motion for a resolution No 1 by Senators Tocci and others, against the motion for a resolution No 2 by Senators Bitonci and others, and against the motion for a resolution No 3 by Senators Gasparri and others.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u23	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u26	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, I speak very quickly. The Gruppo Per le Autonomie intends to vote in favour of the draft legislative decree under consideration. As has already been said in the debate, however, we want to express some doubts about the method which, in fact, have been mentioned earlier, especially with a view to rethinking the system of relations between the State and the territorial authorities in the future. We want to see this decree on Roma Capitale as an example of a series of problems in the relations between the levels of government in Italy that should absolutely be resolved. Budgetary discipline, as mentioned, cannot automatically be translated into a centralization of power at the head of the State and the "bypassing", as it were, of the Regions. It seems to me essential to point out that a general centralization of decision-making processes also involves an overall distrust of sub-state bodies which, up to now, has characterized the implementation of fiscal federalism. Therefore, by voting favorably, we hope that in the future territorial autonomy can all be valued and - above all - seen as an opportunity for the best government of a complex country like Italy and not only as cost centers (which, instead, is done more and more frequently).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u29	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, of all the good intentions of the last parliamentary term, this is the only one who leaves the perilous waves and approaches the dock of the landing place. We had discussed fiscal federalism and the revision of local institutional structures (read: reform of the Provinces) and we had talked about the possibility of establishing metropolitan areas: all this remained in the waves. The only thing that arrives in the Chamber are the Government's communications on the draft legislative decree on Rome Capital. There is a record that becomes mandatory: this decree would not have come to this House if there had not been a good mediation, then, in the bicameral commission for the implementation of federalism, of Senator Calderoli. In this respect, a good mediation has been made and a measure has come out that we do not know if it is a good measure, but I and my colleagues in my Group are convinced that it is the best possible today. In short, with respect to the expert opinion of the Commission, today the Government makes some notations that we can consider plausible: it puts a safeguard clause for public finance and the need for institutional concert; moreover, it transforms into positive the limits of power for the autonomy and Rome Capital as had already been defined and modified by the Commission. What we want to observe is that, when we spoke of fiscal federalism, at the same time there was a debate in Parliament about the fact that federalism should be accompanied by a modification of the Constitution, because federalism works, where it works, if, at the same time as the exaltation of regional and local realities, there is a review of the capacity of central power. This whole debate has been abandoned and we have not moved forward with fiscal federalism and the exaltation of the ability of local realities to self-determine themselves in a more complete and perfect way. We are now approving a corollary of the transformation in the sense of centralised strengthening, and we are therefore approving a rule that concerns capital where it would have a fair meaning if, at the same time, the central power, that is, the unifying representation of the nation, had already been discussed, revised and approved. I am talking about the debate for the direct election of the President of the Republic, the debate that has passed through Parliament in the past legislatures, in particular in the previous one, for the transformation of the perfect bicameralism into an asymmetrical bicameralism, into a Senate of the Regions, in a confidence that should not be given specifically by both Chambers, but only by one, and for certain measures when speaking, not of presidentialism, but of semi-presidency. These are all those innovations that today would give a deeper justification for the approval or, better, the launch of the decree for Rome Capital. I repeat: we do not know if this is a good measure, but we do know that it is the best possible and that going back to what represents a step forward would be detrimental to the positive transformation of our democratic order. Therefore, we cannot avoid declaring the vote in favour, but at the same time we cannot fail to note on this provision not only some reservations that have a connotation of rituality, but also reservations that have their meaning in the fact that the project, of which we have spoken several times, today remains monco and has a corollary annotation that instead is definitively hesitated. Therefore, our vote in favour necessarily combines the hope that everything that has been discussed in the previous legislature can be launched, that federalism can be a done fact and that at the same time Parliament can find the strength, courage and determination to face peacefully, but with conviction, the debate so that constitutional arrangements can be transformed in terms of democratic representation, decision-making capacity, the powers of the Government and the figure of the Head of State. We therefore vote in favour of this measure, but we hope that it will be combined, in the strictest possible time, with something more serious that has not yet been done and that we hope will be achieved, not only because hope must be a firm point of the mandate that we have received, but also to try to offer the voters who have voted to free us from certain constraints that do not make our nation modern. At the same time it is necessary to find the right determination and the right space for the modernization of the country to be the adequate response to the expectations of our people, our electorate, who in the last electoral round expressed a vote that then is the point of the debate that seems almost to have a surreal characterization and that today is realized in the country. It seems strange to me that we are talking about something that has a meaning in the discussions of the past, that is of great importance to the country and, at the same time, we are very distracted by some needs, such as that of the formation of the government and that of the next election of the Head of State. We do not realize that in the country the expectation is totally different: it is much higher, evident and important. Its relevance is not considered with the proper attention either by us or by those who have even greater responsibilities than our own. [[Applause from Senators Scilipoti and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u32	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, our explanation of vote is obviously based, not only on the evaluation of the text, but also on listening to the debate and above all on the fact that it gives us a responsibility: to make this decree an important and initial act to address the fundamental issue of giving an effective institutional dimension, corresponding to the extraordinary capacity of Rome Capital and Metropolis of Italy. We have wasted a lot of time on this issue and, above all, we have made millions of women and men pay for it, not just citizens and Roman towns. In fact, for the fundamental strategicity of our capital city, they have paid many not only for lack of services, but as a quality of life. It is the lack of a possible subject that can dialogue with the great institutions and with the fabric of Italian and international society and that does not have a corresponding institutional dimension, a governance that can respond and indeed propose appropriate solutions to the entire country. This is the commitment that we must put in our experience as legislators, so as to overcome the limits that characterized the events that in the debate, with euphemism, were said to have remained in the ford. If the story of the metropolitan cities is in the ford, as far as Rome is concerned metropolitan city and capital of the country is in a situation of absolute unsustainability. Therefore, with courage and responsibility we must address this issue and we must find the strength to be able to translate the responsibility we take into concrete acts that must be initiated immediately and must see this House as the protagonist in order to provide institutional solutions, which are then truly effective and adequate conditions of government for this extraordinary and unique metropolitan area. I conclude by announcing the vote in favour of the Left Group on Ecology and Freedom, with a principle that has also been mentioned in today's debate: the identification of institutional solutions must correspond to capacity and efficiency. For the Metropolitan City of Rome the principle must be as follows: broad-area policies must correspond to broad-area governance at the head of the Metropolitan City of Rome. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u35	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the concerns we raised earlier in the debate on the corrective decree are important and concern both procedural and technical aspects and substantive content. Starting from the method, I can only reiterate what was expressed earlier: the deadline - it is worth remembering - of the delegation for the definitive adoption of the legislative decree implementing, pursuant to the law delegation n. 42 of 2009 on fiscal federalism, is three years from the date of entry into force of legislative decree n. 61 of 2012. This means that it expires on 2 June 2015. I can only reiterate the lack of opportunity, the inappropriateness of the behaviour that the Government has held in its institutional relations with Parliament, at the time when it adopted this corrective decree as a discharge, in the presence of loose Chambers. Therefore, the most obvious reasons for institutional correctness in the relations between the Government and Parliament should have led to a succession. The timing for the exercise of delegation, therefore, is very broad and these reasons of urgency are completely unmotivated. It should be added that the Government adopted this implementing decree on 18 January 2013, that is almost a month after the resignation of the Government itself and the dissolution of the Chambers, and just over a month before the general elections took place. It is not possible to understand frankly the reason for such conduct, except, perhaps, the diligent willingness to comply with solicitations from the Municipality of Rome and the Lazio Region. This method of proceeding is inappropriate and this judgment is confirmed by the fact - which is also worth remembering here - that the decree adopted on 18 January was sent to Parliament only on 21 March, because it clearly had to be waited for the new Chambers to settle, on the basis of the electoral outcome. Another fact that is worth mentioning - and I should like to mention this point again - is that no minister responsible for this matter has followed the work of the bicameral Commission, and this has created great difficulties in working there: the Minister for Economic Affairs has not been present, nor a Undersecretary; you have not been present, Minister, who had a specific delegation, or the Minister for Regional Affairs Gnudi; Not even the Minister for Relations with Parliament or his Undersecretary. This has led to obvious difficulties at the time when the amendments were to be presented and voted and the opinions expressed, and it was necessary to use the presence of the Undersecretary for Cultural Heritage and Activities, which was not competent on the subject and could not but go back to the Commission's examination. I felt that I would reiterate these elements relating to procedures, timing and lack of dialogue in the institutional relations between the Government and Parliament, because I would like to point out that here too, as in many others, it is evident that, precisely on the profiles for which a technical government would be able to expect the utmost attention, the Monti Government has shown disinterest, negligence and even arrogance, such as to cause any political government to regret. As for the merit, analyzing the content of the decree, the League has always maintained a position of opposition, also and above all on the opinion rendered by the bicameral Commission, so much so that - as I have recalled - one of the rapporteurs of the provision belonging to our Group, for the evident distortions that were introduced in the text, has had to resign from the task. We confirm our dissent because with legislative decree no. 61 of 2012 you have used the delegation to confer to the Municipality of Rome powers, prerogatives and privileges that make it a particular entity, a super Municipality, in contempt of what is provided by the general order for all other municipalities. So much for what is planned - it would be said - for all the other municipalities, perhaps virtuous and perhaps, in certain parts of the country, massacred by the constraints and limits of the Stability Pact and by the continuous cuts imposed by your Government to their already strenuous resources. The forecasts of the decree cited here give the Municipality of Rome special prerogatives over the others. It is not by chance that a constitutional appeal has been made by the Lazio Region, as the provision contains clear reasons for illegality with respect to the constitutional dictation in relations with the Lazio Region. It would have been much better to allow the Constitutional Court to express itself on the illegality (in our clear opinion) of the provisions contained in Decree No 61, and then, on the basis of that judgment, to draw up the corrective implementing decree subsequently. The opinion of the Bicameral, also in effect - and it must be said - of direct solicitations from the mayor of Rome Alemanno, intervened specifically at the hearing, used the corrective not to limit, but to further widen the prerogatives and special powers that already decree no. 61 had bestowed on the Municipality of Rome. Hence the reason for our firm opposition. It is true that the new text improves on the Commission's opinion, but these improvements cannot be considered satisfactory. The only truly satisfactory solution would be the total abolition of the special prerogatives which the opinion had intended to confer on the Municipality of Rome, both as regards the mayor's power of order and as regards the direct transfer of State resources. In the first case, that of order is an extraordinary power to which already excessive recourse is made, and there is no reason to extend it exclusively in favour of the mayor of Rome; in the second case, the direct allocation of state funding to a municipality is contrary to the constitutional forecast. Before concluding, we would like to add a last more general political consideration: the Monti Government, during the whole period in which it remained in office, adopted only two legislative decrees implementing the law delegation on fiscal federalism (No 42 of 2009), that is, the whole system of fiscal federalism. The first was the decree on Roma Capitale (legislative decree no. 61 of 2012) and the second was the one we are discussing today, corrective. This means - and it must be reiterated - that of the whole system of fiscal federalism that we of the North League have tried tirelessly to define - certainly a path that can be improved and that to a large extent still has to be implemented, but that is the only hope for this country of redemption and salvation from the serious recession in which it slipped because of the Monti Government, a government of only taxes - the only question that has also affected its Government, Minister, is to regulate the organization of the City of Rome Capital: the first act adopted by you and the last, by Government resigned. It must be said that it really seems like a joke of fate. With regard to the financial autonomy of regions and local authorities, however, we know how heavily the Monti Government has hit it and limited it through a long sequence of decree-laws approved by means of trust, measures that have imposed only cuts, without having ever attacked the real centres of waste of resources, that continue to increase the public debt, that is, unproductive public expenditure. Suffice it to say that if the system of expenditure and standard costs were finally implemented, the State would already have a lot of resources. We are tired of paying for cicadas that do not realize the great and tiring work of so many ants. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It is a consideration that shows in the most obvious way the importance that the Monti Government has attributed to fiscal federalism and that helps explain why, as a result of the activity of this Government, the country is in such a serious economic and financial situation. It's really time to move on. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u38	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, despite the objective political and institutional problems that in fact undermine the fluidity of parliamentary activity and the management rules of the institutional system, today, in my opinion, we are demonstrating responsibility and real will for intervention, because unloosed nodes and standby measures cannot actually wait until the institutional impasse of the moment is finally overcome: it would risk creating an administrative and organizational paralysis of the country that we do not want and cannot allow. With these simple comments, I would first like to reply to those who have raised some objections regarding the possibility of proceeding with the opinion of the so-called Rome Capital decree scheme, by virtue of the extraordinary character of the political moment. Of course, it would be added that the moment, as well as extraordinary, is also historical, but our civic commitment, even before political, must be placed far beyond the demagogy that someone is manifesting. Aware of all this I believe in the name of Civic Choice, that the transmission by the Government of the draft legislative decree places itself precisely in the direction of containment of the limit of the current impasse. The measure under consideration has governed the conferral of state administrative functions in Rome Capital with the objective of guaranteeing, as provided for in Law No 42, the best organization of functions that is called to carry out as the seat of the constitutional bodies, as well as the diplomatic representations of the foreign States present there to the Italian Republic, to the Vatican City State and to the international institutions. Article 24 of the aforementioned law was greeted with enthusiasm and attention also because it was enforceable in accordance with Article 114 of our Constitutional Charter. The financial, legal, organizational and political peculiarity of the Italian capital has become the subject of specific discipline that has then been structured into appropriate implementing provisions on which we are called today to give an opinion, colleagues. The decree under consideration represents a sort of legacy of the last legislature, the term of which in fact prevented the natural iter in view of the fact that the expiry of the same was scheduled for the day 11 February 2013. In fact, the scheme under consideration comes from far away. Although it has been the subject of several renovations over the last few months, it was previously approved by the Council of Ministers in May 2012, bringing amendments to Legislative Decree No. 61 of 2012 aimed at safeguarding the coordination between the negotiations of the objectives of the Stability Pact between Rome Capital and the Government and the general discipline in the matter of the Territorial Stability Pact. Moreover, the forecast of direct financing to Rome Capital of the essential levels of benefits was eliminated and provisions were also foreseen for the patronage of the commissioner's management. After the acquisition of the favorable opinions of the bodies and institutions directly involved, according to the procedures prescribed, the scheme was then the subject of an opinion in the two branches of Parliament in November 2012, then in the last lines of the last legislature. The Government, as stated in the comments annexed to the scheme, intended to transpose some of the conditions and comments expressed by the Commission for the implementation of fiscal federalism. It deserves particular attention, in my opinion, to the amendment of paragraph 3 of Article 1, which had already been requested by the unified conference and subsequently placed as a condition by the bicameral Commission. In this it is previewed a temporary discipline of the remodulation of the program of participations of Rome capital, through also the involvement of the Minister of the economy, previewing that this happens in compliance with the trends and in any case to invariance of the burdens. It is not, as some have pointed out, a reduction in the powers of the mayor; rather, it is a rebalancing of his functions, also through a further confrontation with the central government. On this delicate front I think it is particularly interesting the operational correction of paragraph 4 of Article 1 in the matter of civil protection: the Mayor has been granted the power to adopt orders, also in derogation from the current provisions, for the implementation of interventions concerning emergency situations related to traffic, mobility and pollution, also in execution of a plan authorized with resolution of the Council of Ministers with charges charged to Rome Capital. It seems appropriate to point out that although this is in a different case from the civil protection legislation, the peculiar status of Rome Capital allows an extraordinary power of intervention of the mayor in its territory. I believe that on this front too it has been forward-looking and pragmatic to proceed in this direction, also in view of the multiplicity of calamitous events to which the city has been subjected and the many instances of interventions that a complex reality such as the capital may require. It would also seem appropriate to focus on the introduction of the amendment to the forecast of direct financing in Rome Capital of the essential levels of performance and service objectives. The new formulation in fact previews the direct financing of Rome Capital of the burdens of the local public transport, without excluding the railway one, and an understanding with Rome capital and the Lazio Region for the determination, within the quota due to the Lazio Region, of the resources to be delivered directly to Rome Capital. It is also expected that resources will be provided in favour of the Region, in the mores of the understanding, and - within the framework of the aforementioned understanding - a re-determination of the objectives of the Internal Stability Pact of the Lazio Region and of Rome Capital, in order to guarantee neutrality on the balances of public finance. These measures certainly improve the scope of the provisions of the second decree, which had reduced the potential of Roma Capitale and had rekindled criticality, such as that of the management of funds by the Lazio Region in a difficult sector such as that of transport. Let's not forget complex situations such as the failure to collect claims against the Region from ATAC, the subsidiary of Roma Capitale, which also led to the significant increase of travel tickets last year. This is something that deserves attention and that, as usual, risks falling on the citizens, whose difficulties are clear to all. I believe, on behalf of the Group that I represent, that with the current formulation of the measure a right path has been taken, a process of remodeling legislation based on the careful evaluation of the opinions and observations of the competent bodies, through listening to the institutional contacts directly involved. With the approval of this measure, as has been pointed out by the mayor himself, an important response is given, which allows the administration to prepare these opportune interventions more and more in line with the needs of a changing society and a growing city. As has already been pointed out by my previous colleague, this measure represents a stage of rapprochement with that system of reorganization of the self-employed which has been going on for years, but which is difficult to achieve. One can therefore begin to look at Roma Capitale as a pilot project to be taken as an example and as a reference for the new definition of Italian administrative geometry. That is why I am announcing my Group's vote in favour of this draft legislative decree. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u41	AUGELLO (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the People of Freedom Group welcomes the changes that the Government has made to the text approved in the bicameral Commission. In particular, I believe that an important point of balance has been found, both in the matter concerning the mayor's power of order, and also in relation to the question that had been - and still is - at the center of an institutional dispute between the Region and the municipality, concerning instead the transfers of the flows of public transport. It goes without saying that the situations we are living in often hide - as Mrs Lanzillotta pointed out earlier - very concrete problems, behind which seemingly redundant constitutional challenges lie. The underlying problem is that this decree largely anticipates issues that we will probably come back to discuss when there will be a wider debate on areas and metropolitan cities. In the situation of suffering - especially cash - in which so many Italian Regions are located, it is of all evidence that the power of programming and negotiation of service contracts cannot be transformed into power of discretionary management of the cash, even beyond the will of those who exercise this power, perhaps simply because attacked by the injunctive decrees. I therefore honestly struggle to read this decree as a measure of absolute privilege for the city of Rome: it is simply a translation into a legislative act of a long debate that involved all political and institutional forces. I believe that the city of Rome owes a thank you to all those who have helped to reach the end of this path - albeit an intermediate goal - and I really say to everyone, because I think that today we would not be here to discuss if with the previous Government the norms concerning Rome Capital had not been included in the provisions on federalism. Therefore, this very delicate balance that has been achieved also within the relationship between the various institutions that have contributed to finding this point of fall and have endeavoured with it in a recent past, when still existed the Province, then the City of Rome, the Region, the previous Regional Council, all this work passed then in the State-Regions Conference is precious because we are not merely giving concreteness to years of discussions - which unfortunately did not lead to much - that established the need for Italy also to have an adequate system to take decisions in its capital. Rome from this point of view is much more than a capital. I think Rome is the only city in the world to boast a series of imitation attempts: the second Rome was Constantinople, the third claim to be Moscow; Washington itself, with its somewhat baroque appearance, is not exempt from the suspicion of having pursued the myth of Rome. But then translating this great cultural heritage, this great cultural heritage, this great tradition into a modern and efficient city also means facing some of the nodes that we are facing here all together this morning. Therefore, from this point of view I think that every product is perfectible but what we are discussing today represents a reasonable point of fall and above all represents the background of other experiences that will then bring us - as I said before, when we put hand, I imagine with a new Government, to such a plan - to define overall the most complicated and articulated matter that passes under the title of "areas" and "metropolitan cities." At that moment this work will prove to be very valuable. For all these reasons, the People of Freedom Group has tabled motion for a resolution No 3 in which it simply states that it has listened to and approved the Government's report. If, as I think, other Members who have tabled the other motions for resolutions will shortly come to the presentation of a single text which can very simply conclude this debate, we will subscribe to it. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u44	TOCCI (PD). Mr President, there are three possible reading plans for this measure: the technical one, the one of the citizens and the one of the historical one. As far as the first is concerned, the Government has put forward reasonable arguments in this House and we are therefore in agreement and willing to converge on a joint motion for a resolution. There is only one question: why did the technical government not have - let me say, Minister - the technical expertise to submit these objections to the bicameral Commission? We would have saved ourselves a parliamentary passage. As for the second aspect, I heard the League raging against the measure. Perhaps he forgot that these rules are the daughters of the 2008 agreement between Alemanno, Polverini and Bossi. In Rome it is known as "the agreement of the pajata" [[Applause from the PD Group]] because sealed by a ridiculous gastronomic event that took place in front of Palazzo Montecitorio, accompanied by a choice, in my opinion, that of canceling investments for Rome and bringing resources only on current expenditure, with the results that are before everyone's eyes. After five years, in fact, the effect of all this normative apparatus was only the change of the header of the Municipality: on the cars of the urban vigilantes there is no longer written "Comune di Roma" but "Roma Capitale" (Rome Capitale). Citizens have seen no other improvement than this. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]] Finally, as far as the historical aspect is concerned, in these Aules of Rome Capitale there has been much more discussion in the history of the country. I went to read again the debate that led in 1990 to the approval of Law No. 396, thanks to a great Lombard - I say to Senator Calderoli - who loved Rome: Antonio Cederna. That law was about the central archaeological area, the Forums, the Viarum Queen, the museums, the culture, the great rivers, the Tiber, the transport networks, the international role of Rome. That's what that law was about. Allow me, Minister, you are a legal scholar and you know that the lexicon in the law is a measure of its effectiveness. When it comes, therefore, to highly symbolic issues - and capital is - legislative language should have that clarity, that far-sightedness, that hieraticity that suits the subject. This - let me say this - seems to be a regulation of condominium, full of paragraphs, of referrals, of incisions, of administrative details. I don't blame him, but I would point to an inadequacy that we will have to overcome in the future. If we compare the text on the historical level, then I come to mind that thrilling judgment that the great Puccini gave to one of his students when he brought him a score: "What is beautiful is not new and what is new is not beautiful." Having said that, however, we, as Members of this House, have a duty and a duty to discuss the substance of these measures. I can tell you then that the rule on the mayor's powers of order for the traffic emergency has certainly improved: they are mitigated and placed under the control of an address document. However, Minister (I am always addressing you for your legal competence): it is surreal that the Government of a large country should deal with the traffic procedures of a single city. If we need such strong compensation, it means that perhaps the rules of the mayor for traffic are wrong. On the other hand, Veltroni has used them well, but in recent years they have only been used to derogate from invitations to tender and service conferences. Above all, after the excesses of Bertolaso, it was agreed that the commissioner's powers should concern only natural disasters, and traffic is not. From personal experience, I know that the city councilman's job to traffic is a difficult one, but certainly there is no shortage of laws in our country to exercise it. There are so many laws, so if you want to do it, you can do it. To administrators who always ask for new powers to have the alibi of their inefficiency the Roman popular common sense will then find a way to respond with his wisdom. Already I imagine some people will say: Did you want the bike? Now pedal it. Finally, on the transport funds the legislative decree confirms the principle of direct allocation to the city of Rome. Now there is an agreement with the Lazio Region and we are sure that from the new Junta Zingaretti will be support and collaboration to the city. In terms of infrastructure investments, the expression "in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs" is also added. This Ministry has shown in recent years an unnecessary exuberance: for every measure it asks for the signature of the implementing decree, but, as Mr Sangalli showed very well yesterday, then it fails to exercise all the powers it asks for. The Ministry of Economy, therefore, has become a large bottleneck in the administration of the State. Finally, we would have preferred the first version of the legislative decree, which established an automatic procedure for the transfer of the powers of Rome Capital to the new Metropolitan City, but prevented it from being established by the current mayor of Rome. We are on the eve of an electoral report: it will be the citizens who will assess the work of the mayor. But here, as far as we are concerned and we are concerned, I believe that it has weighed very negatively on this debate the vindictive attitude and continuous institutional conflict expressed by the mayor of Rome, reaching the point of colliding with the Lazio Region, which was also administered by the same political color. We do not hide that we are here, with this urgency, to approve this legislative decree because against these norms even depends an appeal to the Constitutional Court by the Lazio Region. In general, this vindictive attitude harms our city. Even if it were to achieve positive results, governing Rome with a vindictive attitude and a break with the national interest and interest of the other cities hurts in Rome because it affects its prestige and its authority as capital. Rulership of Rome is not a claim, it is a national responsibility. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So when you do something in Rome you have to do it for the Roman citizens, but always having in mind that those achievements must be perceived by the entire national community as an enrichment of all, as an additional resource for the whole country. This means above all culture, this provision should be dealt with and unfortunately there is no trace of it: the cultural function of Rome, its history and its memory, which today is a passage of epoch with the new world of digital culture. The great challenge of the passage between ancient and modern should make Rome a great center of culture and production. The capital, after all, is above all this: it is not only the place where the Ministers reside, it is not only a sum of rules and procedures such as those we are approving here; a real capital is above all a center of transformation of culture, a place that contributes to the elaboration and improvement of the national spirit, that is, it collects all the energies of the country and leads them to a higher level of elaboration. In capital, what is particular becomes universal, what is implicit becomes explicit, what is still crude in the vital energies of a country is refined in a new and higher feeling of the nation. Allow me, Minister, and allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude with a historical reflection. When Rome became Capital, in the government of the country there was a right of European rank, the great Italian historical Right, and to deal with these subjects were personalities of the highest level. The minister who was in charge of Rome Capital was Quintino Sella and, when he began his mandate, called the great historian of modern Rome Theodor Mommsen and asked him what he had to recommend. Mommsen replied: "Dear Sella, to rule Rome requires a great idea. One does not govern Rome without having a great idea. I believe that this warning is especially valid for us, for our generation, a modern generation, full of technologies, full of knowledge, but that today is unfortunately not up to those aspirations and suggestions. Quintino Sella spoke of Rome as the great capital of culture, defining it, in his Aulic language, as a place where one has the hub of ideas, that is, as a center of debate and production of national culture. We are dwarves and we are not even on the shoulders of the giants, but at least keeping the memory of the giants can serve everyone: to the left, to the center, to the right; I do not make a partisan speech here, but I express a wish that applies to everyone. Reminding us of the memory of the giants can revive the hope that in future the new generations can express new ruling classes capable of thinking Rome and its destiny up to the nation, that they can think of the future of capital as a positive resource for the whole country. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u45	I note that motion for a resolution No 1 has been reworded and is now also signed by the Senators who tabled motion No 3, which has been withdrawn accordingly. I would ask the Senator Secretary to read out motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u46	The Senate, after hearing the Government's communications on the draft legislative decree concerning the supplementary and corrective provisions of Legislative Decree No. 61 of 18 April 2012 laying down further provisions on the legal system of Rome Capital; positively evaluate the additions and changes made after the approval of the opinion by the Bicameral Commission for the implementation of fiscal federalism, approves them. The signatories are Tocci, Gasparri, Cervellini, Mauro Mario, Ranucci, Augello, De Petris, Zanda, Valentini, Cirinna, Ferrara Mario, Astorre, Maturani.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u49	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, when we come to the vote on the motion for a resolution, we call for it to be voted simultaneously by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u50	I do not think it is necessary to ask the Government to give its opinion on the rewording of motion for a resolution No 1, not least because it is the result of motions for resolutions Nos 1 and 3. 1 and 3, on which you have already expressed a favourable opinion; however, for the sake of respect for the form we ask for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u51	The Government's opinion is favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u52	I note that, in line with established practice, if the motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2) approving the Minister's communications is adopted, the motion for a resolution No 2 will be precluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, previously made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of motion for resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Tocci, Gasparri, Cervellini, Mauro Mario, Ranucci, Augello, De Petris, Zanda, Valentini, Cirinna, Ferrara Mario, Astorre and Maturani. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 252 Senators voting 251 Majority 126 Favourites 193 Contrars 12 Absent 46]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]] The motion for a resolution No 2 is therefore precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u55	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, Senators and Senators, this is the first time I have spoken in this House and I do not hide my emotion; an emotion that is amplified because the request I want to make you, dear President and dearest Senators and Senators, is to observe a minute's silence. I'll try to explain why. In a few days, on April 6th, the fourth anniversary of the tragic earthquake that struck L'Aquila and an important part of Abruzzo is celebrated, causing the end of many lives and the destruction of many houses and churches. 308 were the victims of that earthquake. Then another was added to them. That morning a little girl was to be born in the hospital, but she was never born: her mother, unfortunately, who had to go to the hospital, remained under the rubble. Thus, the number of victims rises to 309. Four years later, dear President, dearest senators and dearest senators, the memory is still very strong. There are people in this House who like me have lived and shared those moments of pain. We lost relatives and friends. We lost our homes. We'll never see those 309 people again. Four years have passed and the memory is still very strong and tormented. Many things have been done and many still have to be done. I am sure that the Senate, Parliament and the Government will continue with greater drive to follow the tragic story of my city and my land. I am convinced that there will be the answers that the citizens of L'Aquila and Abruzzo are still waiting for. Four years later, the city experienced a very tormented moment of great disarray. I ask you to observe a minute of silence so that my fellow citizens, my people, can feel less alone, now, for four years when the date of April 6 approaches for us everything changes: that pain, that fear, returns the clear feeling that we will no longer see those 309 people and we also fear not to see our beautiful city again as it was before. Knowing that Parliament, the institutions and the State are close to us helps us to bear the pain more. That is why, dear President, my dearest senators and my dearest senators, I ask you this: it is the first request I make to this House and it is very much felt. Important celebrations will be held on 5 and 6 April. Here I would like to publicly thank President Pietro Grasso, who will attend an important conference on the 6th morning. It's a very important sign for us. The community needs the state and the state will be present on the 6th morning with the President of the Senate. It won't be enough, but it will be important to us. Then there will be other occasions, other moments of confrontation, on the tragic story that struck the city of L'Aquila, which remains a great national issue. Thank you for listening, ladies and gentlemen. I really ask you with your heart to do so, without rhetoric and without false or hidden thoughts. Stay close. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u56	I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. (The sitting was suspended at 3 [[He stands and observes a minute of silence. General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u59	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank my colleague, Senator Stefania Pezzopane, for bringing to you the very important message of a city on its knees. I join his request and thank you for the minute of silence that was made in memory of the terrible moment lived on April 6, 2009. We are talking about a completely destroyed city and 309 martyrs. I ask you, my fellow senators and senators, to be present at this anniversary. We, Senators and Members of the 5 Star Movement, have joined and will be present. I would also like to thank the President for joining us and I would like to make a proposal. In the light of everything that has been so well illustrated by my colleague and since citizenship is really in conditions of total discomfort and discouragement, I ask that a Senate session be held at the Eagle. I am launching this proposal and I ask that it be accepted, at least to give a strong signal of presence, sharing and understanding. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u62	PELINO (PdL). Mr President, as Abruzzo and as a person living in the province of L'Aquila, I cannot do without associating myself with what my colleagues have said. It is true: it is a very strong pain, a pain that will probably never go away from our heart. It is clear that, in conjunction with the anniversary of the tragic 6 April, a huge wound is reopened within us, which - I repeat - will always remain open, despite today, after the destruction that there has been in social terms and human lives, we are trying in all ways to rebuild the social fabric and, then, that of a capital of Region, as is L'Aquila, which is evidence of a truly important architectural heritage, not only of our Region, but of Italy as a whole. We have always said that, since 2009, the Berlusconi Government has been working in an emergency phase that has left the whole world open, precisely because, in a few months, they were delivered to the eagles of temporary houses (which have really little temporary, because they are welcoming and comfortable), while we expect a reconstruction, which is undoubtedly slow precisely because we are talking not about a small country, but about a big city. After that phase of emergency, we have moved to the most difficult and complex phase, which is that of the reconstruction of a historic center. If we can discuss measures that will also affect the city of L'Aquila, I would ask this House to try to eliminate as much bureaucracy as possible in order to speed up the reconstruction process and that phase which is really essential to restore a social heart to a city that hosts so many young people, being a very important university city, and which today has lost its heart and core. That is what I am asking of us, and we can legislate on that. Of course, our thoughts today and in the coming days, even through prayer, for those who believe, go to the poor innocent victims of a catastrophe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u65	IN MAY (SPI). Mr President, my point of order is a point of order which has in its very words the greatest significance, especially at this time. Many in this House are freshmen compared to the day-to-day work. In the wake of what happened yesterday, I would like to point out to the Presidency that very often there are senators in this House who are not very interested in the work of this House. For the future, I would ask you, if it were possible, to invite them to carry out different tasks than what is done here in as many welcoming rooms outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u66	Sometimes this can also be achieved through hints that manage to maintain an active and active presence of senators. Another attitude that should be avoided is to answer the phone at the time of a memorial. In any case, if possible, when talking to one another, we must avoid giving our backs to the Government, when it is present, and to the Presidency. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-8.ana.u67	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12:01 a.m.
