ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.37 a.m. and resumed at 9.57 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u6	Let's resume our work. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:57 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00144 (text 2), tabled by Senator Fedeli and other senators, abbreviated under Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on war crimes. I call Senator Fedeli to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u10	Mr President, sexual violence used in conflicts as a form of control and oppression has unfortunately crossed and crosses every corner of the earth. During the wars, rapes are intended to sow terror among the population and, in some cases, change the ethnic composition of subsequent generations. Sometimes rape has been used to infect women knowingly with HIV. Rape, even during conflicts, is an unacceptable violence that causes physical, psychological and social damage. The 2010 report of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) clearly states that women rarely make war, but too often suffer the worst consequences: sexual violence is a repulsive and unfortunately increasingly used weapon of war. Looking only at the last twenty years the figures speak for themselves: more than 200,000 women raped during the war in the Democratic Republic of Congo, 60,000 in Sierra Leone, more than 40,000 in Liberia, almost 60,000 in the former Yugoslavia; and still in Chechnya, Darfur, Iraq, Libya, Kosovo and Rwanda. In Congo it has been and still is a real genocide: mass rapes, mutilation, mass graves, genital organs to which is set on fire, fathers forced to rape their daughters or their children mothers: horror that affects three-year-old girls as elderly of ninety. I'm not ‐ I want to say it clearly ‐ "side effects" of the war, but a military strategy of both sides with the aim of striking those who pass on life, that is, women. In Libya, since April 2011, US ambassador Susan Rice has denounced the distribution of Viagra to soldiers to be sexually more aggressive during the conflict; also in Egypt, in Tahrir Square, there have been rapes to intimidate women who participated in the protest and for the sadistic taste of doing evil, and the same thing happened in Syria. The United Nations began to deal with the rapes in the conflicts in 1992, following violence in former Yugoslavia, declaring the rape of women an international crime and then activating over the years various bodies and groups engaged in the fight against sexual violence in the conflicts. The European Council also intervened in 2008 with two resolutions. It is instead of April this year - and it is also the point that indicates the importance of this motion - the G8's understanding that indicates sexual violence in conflict zones as a war crime and launches a conflict program by investing $35 million. The initiative started out as a stimulus for the British Government, which during the G8 Presidency launched the campaign "Stop Sexual Violence in Conflicts," which in February was also presented to debate in Rome, always on the stimulus of the British Embassy, to raise awareness and also involve Italian public opinion. Now is the time for clear institutional acts and a shared commitment, such as the united motion of all the groups that we present here today in the Senate. That is why we call on the Government to undertake to act, at national and international level, to take the necessary measures to prevent, suppress and put an end to rape as a weapon of war. First of all, we need a better system of justice, which cannot be left to individual states alone, but instead implies a shared definition of a specific international crime, in order to make individual countries responsible, in order to ensure compensation for victims, in order to strengthen the ability to investigate and sanction criminal acts, including with dedicated judicial police and a specialised section within the International Criminal Court. It is also necessary to promote the inclusion of women, both in the armed forces and in conflict resolution groups, where today there are only less than 10%. Women in the army and in civil organizations working for peace play the role of gender intercultural mediators and are a model that facilitates the emancipation of local women and their organisation, also contributing to the deconstruction of stereotypes. It is also urgent and necessary to ensure adequate training - this is an important point - of the military on the implications of sexual violence during wars and adopt codes of conduct, as well as rules. The mandate of the UN Special Representative for Sexual Crimes in Conflict Situations should be ensured and the work of the expert team provided for in Resolution 1888 of 2009 should be supported. Fighting violence also means removing the barriers that prevent monitoring and reporting: only adequate documentation can really identify and punish the culprits and provide health, psycho-social, legal and economic support to the victims. We therefore need a cooperative and comprehensive approach both from the point of view of the application of shared principles at international level and from the point of view of the activation of the necessary funding, such as those provided for by the European Union. It is crucial, also in this field, to pursue a common European strategy, strengthening the Union's capacity to be incisive in influencing the point of view of international rules, including on conflicts and war crimes. It is also important - and I say this to the Deputy Minister - that the UN General Assembly intervenes, rejecting, in peace agreements, any possibility of amnesty for these crimes. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and M5S groups.]] Instead, the whole international community must recognise war rape as a serious violation of Article 27 of the Geneva Convention, together with genocide crimes, crimes against humanity and all war crimes. It's really no longer tolerable for things like war rape to happen in the world. The international community must intervene to tighten up the rules and severely and exemplaryly punish those who suffer similar violence in order to change culture, widespread mentality and practices. For centuries rape during wars has been tacitally accepted and considered inevitable. That is not the case, it cannot be the case: we must say it more and more with acts that commit the institutions. We must give visibility to judicial proceedings and spread the message that rape during conflicts is a shameful, deplorable, unjustifiable and punishable action. We must therefore give women back the conditions to express their strength and freedom, to access education and work, to build paths of life that allow them to unite, to promote their rights, their dignity and integrity of people, even during conflicts; to know that there are values, international commitments and legal norms for which and with which to defend themselves. The rape as a weapon of war - as they say too often, even legitimately - does not directly touch our daily and material lives here today, but it touches and must touch the conscience and moral and ethical responsibility of acting that each of us has as a person, even more so we who carry out elective and institutional representation tasks and, therefore, also as a part that can influence, with its own decisions, actions and interventions, decisions and their implementation in international fora. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, SCpI and Misto-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u11	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u12	Mr President, when we talk about the violation of human rights in our country, our minds run immediately far away, to foreign, exotic, distinct and distant places from us, which carry with them nefariousness from which we believe we can be exempt. But when we talk about such a brutal phenomenon as that of mass rape, the words written by Hannah Arendt come back to mind, commenting on the trial at Adolf Eichmann after World War II, in his well-known book "The Banality of Evil": "The actions were monstrous, but he who did them was almost normal, neither demonic nor monstrous." When we talk then about mass rapes, we certainly talk about something that today does not question Italy, as a place that for decades has not been the theatre, nor the engine of war. But in order to understand the deep sense of this ultimate gesture of overwhelming male gender over female gender, we need to question what would happen if we were in those conditions, starting with an assessment of what happened when we were in those conditions, that is, in a state of war. Italian women have lived on their skin over and over again, in history, the mass rape, starting from that act, which is one of the founding myths of our country history, told us as children as a harmless story, the rat of the Sabine, which in reality was a violent mass rape, to continue, then, with the other occasions when Italian women found themselves, as civilians, in a theatre of war. I am thinking, for example, of what happened in Italy after the defeat of Caporetto in 1917, with the rapes put on the field by the Austro-German troops, who left in a vast area of our country a flood of illegitimate children, children of war; or of what happened at the end of the Second World War, after 1943, when German troops in the occupied territories put on the field more and more and more acts of rape against Italian women, in particular, partisan women; or of what happened in Italy in 1944, with the so-called Moroccans, immortalized by Moravia and De Sica in the "La ciaciara," but also with 40,000 women forced to prostitute themselves to Anglo-Americans. Even more serious is to emphasize what Italian men did when they were in war territories, for example during the conquest of Eritrea, with so many documented cases of continued and mass rape; or what happened in Libya during the reconquest, between 1930 and 1931; or again, what happened in Macedonia and Greece during the Greek campaign, in the following decade. That is why we are not talking about something far from us, but about something that strongly questions the relationship between men and women in any area of the planet, to any degree of civilization. Suffice it to say that one of the most atrocious, serious and enormous, quantitatively, mass rapes happened a few years ago a few kilometers from here in the former Yugoslavia. That is why it is very important that we address this debate not as something that concerns others and of which we are witnesses, but as a debate that concerns us directly, as state policies, but above all as a way of building our gender identity and our gender relationship. If it is true - as I consider deeply true - that prophecy of Gandhi that said "You are the change you want to see in the world," then today we will vote, I hope unanimously, on the request to the UN Assembly to speak on this issue. It will be an important forum for us on these issues also the forthcoming adoption of a law against feminicide, which specifically concerns the way in which we will be able to put in place those profound cultural actions that involve a radical modification of the violence of men on women, which unfortunately still goes through, in a very strong way, our society, our culture, our way of living private life. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, Misto-SEL and Senator Torrisi groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u13	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion we are debating today is an extremely important act, for which I would like to thank all my fellow signatories; in particular, I would like to thank our vice-president, Mr Fedeli, for having written a profound, elaborate and rooted text in history, with important examples, which make clear exactly what Senator Lo Giudice has just said: rape as a weapon of war is not far from us, it is not a phenomenon that we can speak of as a historical memory. It is true that history and literature have told, then they have accepted, sometimes they have also colored this criminal phenomenon, present in conflicts already from ancient times. My colleague Lo Giudice recalled the Sabine rat, but just think of Homer and the stories about Troy. This criminal phenomenon, however, has changed over time: it has changed its being, its motivations, why it is perpetrated. Rape against women as a practice in conflict has crossed every corner of the earth in all ages. During World War II, Japanese and American armies had sexual slaves, that is, captive women, captured and forced to suffer sexual violence. I remember that the Americans in Italy - we are talking about a few years ago - forced 40,000 Neapolitan women to prostitute themselves after being raped. But this is also colored. Do you remember the song - certainly my colleague Mussolini would be better at pronunciation than I am - in which we say "He was born a n u criaturo, was born a niro"? Often one forgets, colors and justifies a tragic phenomenon. If rape before or during world conflicts was an instrument of vengeance on the enemy, things have changed since the 1990s. It is the Bosnian conflict that transforms rape, which is used as a weapon, into ethnic cleansing, to the extent that the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia has specifically prosecuted rape and enslavement offences as it has finally been considered, after those years, crimes against humanity. There is a quote that must absolutely be made, the one recalled by Margot Wallström, UN Special Envoy for Sexual Crimes in Conflict Situations, who explained how "Sexual violence is used by fighters as a weapon to instill fear among people." Moreover, the phenomenon has become systematic and extensive: in fact, there is an increase in cases of violence against women perpetrated by civilians aware that they do not incur criminal sanctions. This is the basic point that is perfectly highlighted by the motion before us: to combat the awareness that nothing will happen to you, that there will also be impunity. In this regard, it is necessary to fight a point of view which considers rape during periods of conflict only as collateral damage, as if it was set on fire to the homes or if bridges or companies were destroyed, that is, as a damage to be considered possible within a war. This can't be. Rape is neither a cultural nor a sexual fact: it is a criminal act. That is why I want to remind you of the tragic effects that socially devastate countries that suffer this type of situation: abandoned children, infanticides, women who are driven away from the family, the same dishonored families. That is why - and I agree with what my previous speakers have said - an international effort is absolutely necessary, of which our Government can certainly promote. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u15	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech in support of this motion by telling the story of two courageous journalists threatened with death for denouncing the rapes committed during the armed conflicts that still upset their countries. The first case is that of Caddy Adzuba, a Congolese journalist who has been fighting for 13 years to identify and punish those responsible for violence against women in Congo. From his testimony emerges a story of true terror. In the African country they rape women in front of their husbands and children; they use kalashnikovs and knives as sexual organs, causing terrible lacerations. This is the raw description of rape as a weapon of war. Caddy Adzuba tells us how people's control is exercised through fear. According to the journalist, in fact, if the rebels have to control, for example, a city of 20,000 inhabitants, but do not have enough ammunition, then they use sexual violence, not to satisfy their pleasure, but with the real goal of destroying the entire community. Can we really imagine the terror, the trauma suffered by a family that has lived this hell? First, let us think of the woman who is the victim of rape: the effects of this violence will remain sewn on her forever. Then we must not forget our husband and children, who are sometimes forced to witness violence without being able to react. Adzuba assures that this drama is repeated year after year. Unsolved conflicts in your country allow armed groups in Congo and neighbouring countries to commit these crimes. The result is perpetual insecurity. The rebels, however, are not the only ones responsible. The soldiers of the Congolese army have also committed these terrible violence against the women of their country. Despite the efforts being made in Congo, Caddy Adzuba accuses us that the perpetrators of these rapes are never arrested: impunity is the most total. Moreover, in many communities - not only in Africa, but also in other parts of the world - women are doubly victims. As if sexual violence were not enough, the woman must also suffer the humiliation of the abandonment of her own community: women forced to wander in the most complete poverty because they had to abandon all their belongings. The other case I'd like to tell you is that of Colombian journalist Jinneth Bedoya. This woman has experienced the terrible experience of rape herself. Ten years ago, while she was investigating an alleged arms trade between paramilitary groups and the police in her country, she was kidnapped and raped. There was so much damage caused by the abuse that he could not walk for 15 days. She decided to denounce her experience so that the guilty could be arrested, because - as she herself says - it is impossible to overcome this trauma, especially when there is no justice. I wake up at night and relive everything again, I feel the fists in my face, the pain in my back, in my legs. For this woman it is impossible to forget, even for the continuous anonymous threats she receives to force her to silence. Always to stay in Colombia, a study conducted on the numerous cases of rape as a weapon of war found that the guerrilla recruits of underage women to serve as sexual objects of the commanders. In case they get pregnant, they're forced to have an abortion. It is thanks to the testimony of so many courageous women that we can face this terrible aspect of war today and try to do something about it. The government should therefore commit itself to carrying out all the points of the motion tabled today. Just to mention a few measures, without forgetting the others, I think that the Italian Government should ensure adequate and effective training for military and civilian personnel employed in conflict scenarios, as well as in peacekeeping and peacebuilding missions, according to a gender approach. Cases of sexual violence by humanitarian personnel, representatives of international institutions, peacekeeping forces and diplomats, through severe administrative and criminal sanctions should be prosecuted. The increase in the number of women in the armed and civilian forces engaged in peacekeeping operations, and the guarantee of full participation by women in the conduct of peace negotiations, are undoubtedly very important news to try to stem this deplorable phenomenon. Equally crucial is that the Government undertakes to exclude from the amnesty provisions crimes of gender violence in armed conflicts. Finally, I think it is essential, as is indicated in the motion, to give a high visibility and publicity of judicial proceedings so that the message is spread that rape in conflicts constitutes an unjustifiable and criminal behavior. Indeed, as has been pointed out by many studies carried out in the conflicting countries, one of the greatest obstacles is the lack of visibility of this aspect of the war. Women do not denounce their abuse for fear and above all for the uncertainty that this might serve something. I therefore agree that it is necessary to guarantee the possibility for women who are victims of sexual violence during conflicts of international jurisdictions under conditions that are compatible with their dignity. Finally, recognizing war rape as a serious violation of Article 27 of the Geneva Convention, and therefore as a criminal case under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, together with crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and all war crimes, is a necessary step to try to stem this terrible violence against women. I therefore conclude by hoping that this motion will be accepted and that the Italian Government will undertake to act to try to prevent, suppress and put an end to rape as a weapon of war, demonstrating that our country is at the side of the thousands of women in the world who have suffered sexual violence. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia's PDe Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u17	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u18	Mr President, first of all, I would like to express my thanks for the valuable work that has been done to the House through this motion, for the timely, precise and painful work that has been presented to us. I will not repeat what has already been said, which I agree with and endorse. On the other hand, I would like to focus on some of the points proposed in the motion. First of all, I would like to reflect with you on the fact that there can be no peace if there is no justice and there can be no justice until the heinous men who commit those horrible actions, which have been called actions against humanity, crimes against humanity, will not be punished. Sadly, such figures often enjoy a sort of permanent impunity that hangs around them making them almost unattainable. I therefore think it is important to work on a number of points. First of all, it is necessary to ensure that women are more present where they decide because, as has already been said, they are currently less than 10%. How can it be thought that men (who do not want them and who listens to us) alone, without knowing the pain, violence and everything that is inflicted on these women, can decide and make the best choices? It has been noted and confirmed that where women are present in decision-making bodies, stronger and more decisive choices are made, because women are cultural mediators, because the median women every day, because they build peace, making those women aware, allowing them access to culture, school, health and health. Where they are present, these women build bridges and help to make men and women aware of their dignity and rights. We hope, then, that there will be more women in decision-making and leadership places, both because they give confidence and increase self-esteem in the people who are raped, and because they are positive models to be opposed to the old stereotypes. It has been said - and I agree - that these processes have always occurred in history, but they must not continue to exist for this reason. Another thing that means forcefully: they must also be denounced those operators who, taking advantage of the extreme weakness of the people who are victims of their pain, rape them in a more silent and less denounced manner. I am thinking of minors and women in the reception camps. Many times this scandal has emerged, then suddenly implied. It is therefore necessary to have the courage to strike even those who, by playing the institutional role of mediator of peace, reception and relief, in reality further violate these people already wounded. I am about to conclude by reminding all of us that these things do not only happen in distant countries. Bosnia has been remembered, and in this regard I would like to mention the precious work of women who have been going to Bosnia for years to try to sew and help these people to be born again. In fact, a category too often forgotten by politics is that of fraternity, but only fraternity can make humanity better. During the month of August I visited several reception centers in Sicily. You know about the daily landings, how many minors, how many women and how many men escape from situations of pain. Well, we have wondered how we stand up to these people who seek hope and respect for their dignity. In this, too, the motion has done a good job, proposing psychosocial support for those women and men who have the right, like all of us, to hope for a humanity that can be different, if only we can decline that category of fraternity. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u19	Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u20	Mr President, as has rightly been said, rape, violence on the female body, is a very archaic fact: perhaps one of the oldest forms of manifestation of power; a power which, through the body, defines who counts among men, which nation is most powerful and which religion must prevail. However, it also has very precise modern forms. In my opinion, this debate becomes even more beautiful if we can determine it in the various differences, to understand what to do, beyond the declamations and the righteous indignations about such a horrible and terrible fact. What are the differences? In the twentieth century the world wars, and then also the successive wars that we have just witnessed, but above all the First and Second World Wars, the ones from which everything, have shown that the possession of the woman's body is metonimical, is a metaphor of the possession of the nation. When the nations arose, men said: if we take the body, it means that we take that nation. In the First World War there were borders, there was a problem of affirmation of nationalism. In the Second War there was a need to affirm - it has been remembered about the rapes of blacks - the idea that, through the female body, there is a possession of the Homeland of the enemy, so it is like raping the enemy. The woman's a piece of everything. She's methonimic. What does it mean then, today, to embody this in post-modernity, in the after (this theme of the twentieth century and world wars)? It means doing it in concrete terms; it means understanding that, from the theme of twentieth-century nationalisms, one has entered a world - even this, alas, very global - of horror, where ethnicities and religions are (it is very interesting to see this) and therefore distinguish which are the uneliminable permanence. Our strength, in fact, lies in understanding how much we can never change because it is actually related to nature, that in some cases it is good and in others, such as the one in question, horrendous, of the two genera, and how much can be changed instead. But, in order to do so, it is necessary to enter into concrete determinations, today very different from those of the twentieth century (I do not say those of the Sabine rat). [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u21	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Fattorini for her speech, which, as always, reminds us not only of the historical contextualization of a phenomenon such as that at our examination, which is so broad, complex and atavistic, but also of the concreteness of a thought, in the light of the century that we have left behind, and introduces us into that modern globalization of horror, as you rightly defined it. Carnal violence has always been part of the offensive strategy of the armies of evil, a real weapon to strike the civilian population. For a long time undervalued, violence against women represented one of the highest prices that a people had to pay for military defeat and occupation, and his reasons really well explained, a few minutes ago, always my colleague Fattorini. I remember - adding to his words - that Italian women, in the two great world conflicts, have also been the victims of this terrible crime. Perhaps we can reason on numbers in a different way: Senator Fattorini probably expanded the boundaries of the phenomenon in a certain sense, but certainly it existed. The total war climate of the First World War also led, in the areas affected by military operations, to the annulment of the differences between civilians and military, as is evident: the greatest war, millions of deaths and many victims, not only among soldiers. At the end of October 1917, for example, following the defeat of Caporetto, the areas of conflict between the Kingdom of Italy and the then Austro-Hungarian Empire, such as Friuli and part of Veneto, were invaded by the Habsburg army. As many as 250,000 civilians were forced to flee, while about 900,000 to 1,000,000 people remained confined to a military occupation regime that lasted a whole year, sadly characterized by looting and rape in almost all territories. After the war in Italy, a first Commission of inquiry was formed, organized by the National Propaganda Technical Office, which in a short time completed its work producing a text, "The martyrdom of the invaded lands," in which the sexual assaults on Italian women were highlighted. And how can we not remember, to come closer to us and to our time, the dramatic pages of Moravia's novel "La ciociara", symbol of all Italian women who during the Second World War were abused by North African soldiers and never had justice? Even more dramatic are the figures of the conflicts of the last twenty years, which speak of 20,000 to 50,000 women raped in Bosnia and at least 200,000 in the Democratic Republic of Congo during the last twelve years of war. United Nations agencies estimate that more than 60,000 women were raped during the civil war in Sierra Leone, between 1991 and 2002, more than 40,000 in Liberia, between 1989 and 2003, up to 60,000 in the former Yugoslavia, between 1992 and 1995. All this, therefore, still happens, close to us, not only from the temporal point of view, but also from the geographical point of view; and this requires a strong reflection. If rape was an instrument of vengeance on the enemy before and during world conflicts, since the 1990s in Bosnia it has become a real ethnic cleansing, so much so that the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia has specifically prosecuted rape and enslavement crimes, as crimes against humanity. And, as Margot Wallström, UN Special Envoy for Sexual Crimes in Conflict Situations, has pointed out, "Sexual violence is used by fighters as a weapon to instill fear among people. Moreover, the phenomenon has become systematic and extensive, and there is an increase in cases of violence against women perpetrated by civilians aware that they do not incur any criminal sanctions. It is therefore necessary to change the point of view of rape during periods of conflict only as collateral damage. Rape is neither cultural nor sexual; it is only criminal. Unfortunately, the effects of rape during periods of war, both physical and psychological, are devastating to the victims, since they can be rejected, abused, dishonored, excluded from their community and, at times, even murdered. Italy has always been committed to promoting gender equality: it is that female empowerment that - sorry to say - passes many times on the skin of so many corpses of our sisters. In 2009 an international conference on violence against women in its many forms was organised in Rome, as part of the Italian G8 Presidency. Since 1 January 2011, Italy has been on the Executive Board of UN Women, the new United Nations entity for gender equality and the advancement of women. Our country has also been at the forefront of the negotiations that have led, in recent years, the Security Council to decide on the use of rape in situations of armed conflict, in order to recognize the link between the contrast to all forms of gender violence and international security. It is therefore with great conviction that I have signed, together with many other colleagues from my group and other groups, this motion, which commits our Government to act at national, supranational and international level to urge the adoption of all those necessary measures to prevent, suppress and put an end to rape as a weapon of war. Thank you, Mr Fedeli, for being so active in the debate on this important motion. This morning's vote in the Senate Chamber honours all women who have suffered dramatic injustices like these, and especially honours this Parliament, which this morning finds the reasons for unity with its civil conscience, with its people, with its peoples, with its very sense of representation, towards justice, towards freedom and democracy. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and SCpI groups and Senator De Pin. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u23	Senator Amati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u24	Mr President, only a few months ago Italy was among the first States to ratify the Istanbul Convention, which recognises the structural and discriminatory nature of violence against women, the manifestation of historically unequal relations of force between the sexes. Yesterday, right here, we stressed the humanitarian reasons behind the arms trade treaty, recalling the important progress made with banning also anti-personnel mines and cluster bombs. Despite these advances, war rapes, which fuel instability and hinder peace processes, are still often treated as crimes of lesser seriousness. The issue we are discussing today goes through the international commitments mentioned by our country, constituting a further element for the promotion and protection of human rights. Sexual violence in war contexts is an ancient, generalized and persistent practice, long perceived as an inevitable accident, an excess, used to achieve political goals, to humiliate opponents, subdue ethnicities, terrorize communities by reducing them to submission and spreading serious infections such as HIV. Mass rapes are an aberrant reward for the troops or groups that carry them out. Women are often reduced to slavery, victims of human trafficking. Perhaps my fellow Members will recall that the Council of Europe Convention No 197 of 2005, which we discussed in this House last year, was a positive one. To make possible these forms of extreme violence is, often, a general context of political and social tolerance, which normalizes them as strategies of war and encourages them, guaranteeing the impunity of those responsible. In 1999, in Kosovo, mass rapes as an instrument of ethnic cleansing were preceded by media campaigns, which presented the stereotype of the Kosovara woman as sexually promiscuous, leveraging on the fear of the Serbs of a disproportionate increase in the Albanian population. In Bosnia and Rwanda, sexual violence has been used as a form of reproductive control. After an initial recognition of the seriousness of the phenomenon by the United Nations in 1992, it was during the trials before the ad hoc tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda that, for the first time, those responsible for mass rape were found guilty of crimes against humanity. The interpretation was transposed and included in the 1998 Statute of the International Criminal Court. These practices are now presented in all their drama in the current conflicts, and unfortunately we know that there are too many. Once again, conflicts are fought through women's bodies. In fact, as the UN representative for violence against women has said, the objective pursued through war rapes is the destruction of the fundamental elements of a society, until the humiliation of the enemy. These violence manifests structural discrimination against women, humiliated to strike men in honour. And it is precisely this symbolic value that manifests the discriminatory origins of gender violence, reaffirmed in the aforementioned Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe, which recognizes them as violations of the human rights of women. Together with impunity, the invisibility of the phenomenon is among the most problematic aspects of this humanitarian drama. That is why we are calling for the motion on today's agenda to do everything possible and that, above all, there is no possibility of amnesty during the peace process. Finally, I want to say that we, who have the honour of having a voice in this House, must give voice to the many women who are out of here, without a voice, we must give voice to their pain and the injustice they suffer. We have a great privilege: Let's use it. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Petraglia and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u25	The debate is closed. I call the Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dassu, to whom I would ask you to give an opinion on the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u26	Mr President, I would like to say a few words, if you will allow me, because this is an important motion in our examination. Yesterday, as has just been mentioned, we ratified the Arms Trade Treaty, the Arms Trade Treaty, signed in New York by John Kerry, who called it an important step for the security of the world. I recall this because the universalization of the Treaty is one of the objectives that we have as Italy; therefore, I thank you again for yesterday on behalf of the Government. Today - and I particularly thank Senator Fedeli - we are discussing a motion which basically deals with weapons of war, namely rape, sexual violence, which, as many of you have rightly said, is actually used as a weapon of war in conflicts. So, even on this subject, as yesterday, the Senate is demonstrating great timing and unity and, in stages like this of national life, it seems to me a relevant political fact. The Government recognizes itself in the premises, in the spirit, in the intentions and commitments of the motion under consideration. I do not summarize what we are already doing; many of you have rightly recalled what we are doing at the United Nations, the European Union and also at national level. For example, I would remind you that the Centre of Excellence of the Carabinieri in Vicenza, which deals with peacekeeping training, is effectively training against violence against women in conflicts, for gender equality, and in all the issues so relevant that you have mentioned. Among the commitments that concern the Government, I would just like to propose a rewording of the motion in question in relation to commitment 19. I would like to read: "To provide further support to the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative on sexual violence in conflicts and to support, including financially, initiatives to prevent sexual violence in conflict areas." I propose this rewording on the one hand because the first part of the sentence reproduces exactly the text of a declaration just signed in New York, on which I will return shortly; on the other hand because the second part alludes to the funding that Italy has just allocated, precisely following the British initiative, in favour of the trust fund of UN Women - you have spoken about it - and in favour of the fund for civil victims of the International Criminal Court. I would prefer this wording as a government because we must give continuity to the funding we have decided to allocate. It is a bad practice of Italy, and I apologise here on behalf of the Government, that of promising financial commitments which, given our budgetary constraints, we cannot respect; therefore, since we have just committed ourselves in these two directions, we think it is right to continue to guarantee these payments. As you asked in your motion, Italy did indeed move, at the United Nations General Assembly, to adhere to the declaration of commitment to the cessation of sexual violence in conflicts. On 24 September - two days ago - Foreign Minister Emma Bonino gave Italy's accession to a declaration that was also signed by Canada, Croatia, Denmark, France, Indonesia, Japan, Republic of Korea, Senegal, United Arab Emirates, Great Britain and the United States. It is a declaration that crowns a further passage of the British initiative that Italy has strongly supported in recent months. I wanted to give you a ride back, because it seems to me the right way to comment on your motion. This statement opens with the affirmation that the widespread use of rape and other forms of sexual violence in armed conflicts in the world is one of the most serious, persistent and most neglected forms of injustice. The statement goes on to say that this is not inevitable, because the efforts being made in the United Nations, multilateral bodies and civil society will be able to stop this human tragedy, and that the countries that have signed it, including ours, are fully committed to this direction. There are a number of commitments in this regard, which I do not mention because they are widely included in your motion. The statement concludes by saying that this crime must not be allowed to continue further. Now is the time to act. And so: thank you very much, the Italian Senate is acting and the Italian Government is responding positively. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senators Serra and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u27	President Fedeli, I would like to ask you whether you will accept the amendment proposed by the Deputy Minister to point 19) of the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u28	Yes, Mr. President. I believe that the reformulation is correct, because it means taking into account what is already funded to continue with the interventions. I thank the Deputy Minister and - I repeat - I welcome the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u29	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u32	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, as has already emerged in the broad debate this morning, the motion on war crimes, on the atrocities of war, has for us a thread of continuity with the ongoing debate in the House on feminicide. In fact, as Senator Lo Giudice reminded us, both concern us: war crimes, mass rapes are unacceptable violence, whose damage is not canceled by the end of the war but remains forever. The problem really concerns all of us: from Darfur to the African Great Lakes region, to Rwanda, to Latin America, where dictatorships have widely used the instrument of sexual violence as a method of repression. There has been a systematic use of violence against women throughout our recent history. Not to mention, and it has been widely recalled, what has happened during the world's conflicts. From the rapes against Serbian women by the Austro-Hungarian, German and Bulgarian armies of World War I, to the rapes committed by the Soviet army during the final advance to the German capital. It is estimated that in Berlin alone, in the last two weeks of war, more than 100,000 rapes were committed to the detriment of German women. The armed struggle against Nazism and Fascism was for the partisans a moment of great inner torments, uncertainties and fears. It was for many a private war for women's emancipation, a challenge to the prejudices of Italian society. And only many years later the women broke the wall of silence on the mass rapes committed by the occupying German troops: all of us remember the dramatic story of Teresa Mattei, remembered just the first days of the Senate settlement. Yet no accusation has ever been made to the Germans about the proven violence. The Italian colonization between the two wars, as the contemporary history has now widely documented, has been of similar violence. On 22 February 2001, the International Tribunal for Crimes in the former Yugoslavia held three Serbian-Bosnian soldiers guilty of crimes against humanity with the charge of rape against many women, girls aged between 12 and 15 years, violence in a detention camp for Bosnian and Muslim women in the city of Foca. It was the first time that rape was catalogued as a crime against humanity, putting an explicit end to the creeping idea that ultimately violence against women during a war was an unfortunate side effect of conflicts, certainly to be suppressed but somehow uneliminable. Then, it is good to remember that, although symbolic and significant the judgments on the facts of the former Yugoslavia, they concerned only an infinite part of the rapes committed, as the women of the association "Victims of the war" denounced, because they were over 25,000, and however a very difficult number to estimate, since after the rape many women were murdered. In any case, this new awareness, brought by the judgment of the Court of The Hague, has so far met with few concrete actions, and the way to eradicate war rape lies in complex, complex actions, precisely those which the motion lists, through actions of the international community, through proper training of military personnel, the development of a code of conduct for military personnel. The war has represented and represents the chief instrument of oppression of men against men, and too often it is practiced even with sexual violence in a purely masculine logic, as was recalled. Some recent trends of US feminism, feminism of opportunity, proudly claim the increased participation of women in the army and military activities, but do not leave us indifferent, on the other hand, the images of American women soldier who sexually sevit Iraqi prisoners in Abu Ghraib prison, demonstrating how strong an emulation effect can be on the one hand and on the other, and that the atrocities of war can end up infecting everyone. War is the daughter of the logic of oppression and of a will of death and suffering, always. We have signed motion No 144 and we fully share its content and actions. We would like to add to what is planned the need for intensive, constant work, information and knowledge, not just to be forgotten. The international community must be fully committed to recognising the universal rights of women in international humanitarian law. Then, in order to do so, a cultural battle is increasingly needed to affirm the reasons for confrontation, dialogue, coexistence and diversity, thus definitively eradicating war and its perverse logic from history. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and the Candiani and De Pin senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u35	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the subject we are dealing with deserves the utmost consideration. In this sense we must first of all break a stereotype, the one that must be the only and necessarily of our female colleagues, because this is not only a heritage of one of the two parts of Creation: it is a heritage of all. We are talking about a declaration of principle, even before a document that will regulate or define the methods of condemning rapes in times of war. I have already mentioned that our vote will be in favour of motion 144, an important act, signed by our Senator Biinella and which the whole Group supports. However, I would also like to make another point: I doubt that we can talk about good war or gentle war; I doubt that by introducing such legislation, rape can be avoided in times of war. Wars should be avoided, action should be taken directly on the cause of evil, not on who then interprets evil. In this regard, however, we must make a reflection: our country is a very advanced country, a country that, like few others, at the cultural level is able to draw a line. And today we must draw a line in which it is clear that there can be no sharing with respect to any oppression, especially if it is made against a woman, not because the woman is more worthy than a man, but because for our culture the woman is above the values of daily common living, the woman deserves respect in every circumstance. Let me also point out that this motion contains statements much more extensive than the subject of war crimes. It is certainly important that in the same motion there be particular attention to the inclusion of more women, especially in civil operations, in high-ranking positions and in interaction with local communities. So beyond the title, this is an act of extreme importance in terms of principle. I will add nothing else, not least because I believe that a few words are needed when it comes to guidelines: we just have to say yes. Allow me, however, at the end of my speech, to express regret at one, unfortunately, repeated absence. I will be pedantic - excuse me - but even today, unfortunately, we will not be able to have the support of our senators for life, in a subject that does not need a specific competence, but we simply have to say: yes, I am there. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u38	ROMANO (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reading of motion 144, the first signatory of which is Senator Fedeli, does not leave us indifferent. It is a motion to which we of Civic Choice have contributed in a direct way, in the full and total sharing of the argument that has been adopted. I believe that this is one of the most tangible manifestations of how, in such an austere and very high-profile Chamber, we can create moments of sharing, synergy and harmony on values that unite and cannot divide. I also believe that creating harmony at this time represents a great wealth for everyone. For this reason I want to express my gratitude to Senator Fedeli for having been an enthusiastic promoter and initiator of the drafting of the motion to which many of us have contributed. The list of horrors committed during the many wars, ancient but also recent and very close, that humanity has known obliges us to reflect on the scourge of group rape and systematic and, more generally, on violence to the person in theatres of conflict. We are talking about women and, wishing to take as a starting point what Senator Fattorini recalled a moment ago in terms of symbolism, I would say that the symbolism of the female body can also be declined in terms of that preciousness that is violated and offended, in the particular case of that preciousness that unites at the family, social and historical level: that relationality that, opening to the future, finds itself in the violence that we are talking about today a cancellation of the future of those societies that must endure these wounds, which will be indelible wounds and not healable for the generations that will come. This vile practice has always and in all respects been a further weapon against the victims. The world has witnessed the spread of such criminal acts, often revealed to be decisive in order to premeditate what absurd projects of ethnic cleansing, as happened with the Tutsi people in Rwanda, as well as with the Bosnian people and other countries such as Congo, Sierra Leone, Liberia and former Yugoslavia. Testimonies that are very close to us, such as those from the Balkans, must still arouse interest, attention and sensitivity in us that must never be put to rest. The systematic prosecution of these repugnant crimes not only affects the most exposed individuals, women and children, producing devastating and definitive consequences of a physical, psychological and social nature, but also results in an instrument aimed at the disintegration of entire social nuclei, the cancellation of ethnic identities, assuming the connotation of a real instrument of torture and revenge. Moreover, these sexual violence produces deep and unhealable wounds in the social fabric of the opposing communities, so much so as to result in a real threat to the security of entire geographical areas and serious obstacle to the restoration of peace, making the process almost unworkable. Stigmatized by civil and international society, these crimes, whose terrible numbers leave us terrified, are the subject of denunciation, monitoring, studies and initiatives by multiple supranational organisations, including the UN, the International Criminal Court and the European Parliament. In 2008, Security Council Resolution 1820, Ms. Deputy Minister, calls rape a real weapon of war. The rape, therefore, and we assert it forcefully, is an ignoble criminal act and such must be considered, even in the scenarios of war or which are defined as such. In this sense, we firmly want international governmental bodies to be called into question and to be able to act quickly, autonomously and effectively, declaring and recognizing rape as a real criminal offense to be prosecuted. In concrete terms, the establishment of an international judicial police force that can identify and condemn those responsible for these atrocities is indispensable; the recognition of a specific international crime, which includes severe sanctions excluding any mitigating measures aimed at a possible reduction of the penalty; a penalty that is exemplary, aimed at severely punishing the perpetrators, while recognising the intrinsic dignity of the victims; the establishment, finally, possibly, of an international fund to support the compensation of the damage. Italy, already at the forefront of the negotiations that led the Security Council to rule against the use of rape in conflict situations, can and must promote initiatives aimed at the recognition and identification of a common international policy to combat such gender crimes. I therefore believe that the contribution of women to this must be seen as a genuine international revolution. I believe that this marks (in quotes, because we are still talking about wars) an act of civilization, a recognition of how we can give rise to a reduction of heinous actions which, however, would be part of those paradoxical mechanisms that fall under the name of war and which we discussed yesterday in the approval of the New York Treaty on the arms trade. These mechanisms are therefore abhorred and must always find a position of conjugation after what is the first and fundamental action: dialogue for peace. For these reasons, but not only (the brevity of the intervention requires me to be extremely synthetic), the Group of Civic Choice for Italy wishes a unanimous adherence to the motion submitted by Senator Fedeli and many other fellow senators, sharing its contents and aims, and thus declares its vote in favour. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups and Senator Companione. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u41	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen in this House the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, welcoming it as a first step towards a civil society, more consciously oriented and permeable to instances that are capable of overcoming the customs, which should be deeply rooted in the cultural identity of the country in a moral and civil perspective. However, this motion, on which we are called to vote today, reminds us once again of the inadequacy, too often experienced and denounced by the institutions, in dealing with the drama and specificity of crimes and forms of violence, such as systematic rape, which constitute a real massacre with impressive numbers. In Rwanda, during the genocide that lasted for three months in 1994, between 100,000 and 250,000 women were raped. The United Nations agencies estimate that more than 60,000 women were raped during the civil war in Sierra Leone (1991-2002), more than 40,000 in Liberia (1989-2003), up to 60,000 in the former Yugoslavia (1992-1995), and at least 200,000 in the Democratic Republic of Congo during the last twelve years of war. We are faced with a double moral aspect, where, in the calculation of mass sexual violence as a criminal act, widespread in all the theatres of war, we witness a sort of normalization of the violent act, of the threats and of the suffering inflicted. Since the Second World War the logic of the conflict between armies has emerged: the civilian victims have exponentially overcome the military ones, but it is a serious mistake to consider destruction, offense and rape simply as "collateral damage." Today we need to look at Libya, Egypt and especially Syria, with the many stories that concern us closely: the thought goes to migrant women fleeing the war, they land on our coasts and are made particularly vulnerable by their status. According to data from the United Nations High Commissioner, about 50% of the world's population of refugees are women and girls. The refugees leave behind fathers, husbands and brothers who fight in war, who lie in the ground, who are imprisoned. As they escape into a war zone, they risk rape or other violence on the part of the fighters. The suffering caused by rape does not end with the cessation of violence, for women carry psychological trauma for life. We are witnesses of the reality in the testimonies collected in Lampedusa by the operators of the humanitarian organizations present on the island to guarantee the first assistance to those who come in search of protection. Like the story of a 16-year-old Eritrean girl, who arrived in Lampedusa with a three-year-old girl; the teenager then told of having suffered sexual violence. Operators argue that 90% of women are victims of sexual violence and that someone has to pay to go through the Mediterranean: it is clear that women are victims twice. Changes, improvements, revolutions often arise from small gestures, not from striking actions. They grow on micro commitment, in everyday life, not only by exceptional events. A strong perspective of cultural change is therefore needed: to raise awareness, inform, feed and promote a culture aware of the respect and dignity of the person are elements that form the basis of an increasingly urgent and necessary change. The motion certainly cannot resolve the issue, but we believe this to be an important first step to curb this silent massacre, to spread the awareness that, at all levels, primarily legal and regulatory, rape must be considered a criminal act before it is sexual. Our efforts must be to ensure adequate protection for women, especially in cases of persecution, such as sexual violence in conflict. We of the 5 Star Movement express a favourable vote, without forgetting that such initiatives need, in order not to remain dead letter, to be accompanied by a wind: the wind of consciousness. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u44	Mussolini (PdL). Mr President, this motion is timely and important and falls at a delicate time. We are talking about rapes that, it is true, have always been there, as has been said before: as early as 1960 the famous film by Vittorio De Sica, taken from the novel by Alberto Moravia, "La ciociara" denounced the problem. As I said, the motion falls at an important and delicate time because unfortunately the rapes, the crimes there are also in time of peace: every day a woman is raped, even in areas where there are no conflicts. I have focused not only on fully and knowingly signing the motion for a resolution before us, but also on reading in the motion how many bodies deal with the problem, how many resolutions and judgments are involved in it; yet, it is still extremely difficult to find out who is responsible, because there is no mention of it, because there is omission. Once it was said: after the victory comes the loot, and the loot were the women. But rape and sexual violence do not only affect women: I remember that in the eighties and nineties, among internees in the camps of Sarajevo and El Salvador, rapes, sexual violence and tortures were carried out even on 80% of the male prisoners, carried out by men themselves. There is therefore not only gender-based rape, but unfortunately sexual violence also affects men and - this is the most serious thing - especially children, children often suffering from AIDS already at the age of four or five because, together with rape, devastating diseases are transmitted, in addition to the psychological and physical drama suffered by the victims of these acts. At last there are sentences of international criminal courts that have established that rape and sexual violence are not only - as Amnesty International says - a strategy of war, an instrument of control of the territory, going within the families, devastating them and thus making the local populations flee to take possession of the property. In addition to the war strategy, we are finally talking about rape and sexual violence as crimes against humanity. Even then, when we arrive at the physical elimination, total or partial, of ethnic groups and populations, we talk about genocide. These are very clear concepts, beyond the conferences, meetings and taking of action by the United Nations Security Council: these are crimes against humanity! It is important that Italy takes note of this, but above all that all the countries involved in the conflicts, including, last but not least, Syria, take note of this: have there been no violence and rape in Syria? As they say in the motion, in addition to the proper participation of women in peace processes and negotiating tables (there are currently no women, but only men in conflict resolution negotiations, as we have also seen in the Syrian question), even more important is the increased participation of women in the armed forces and in all the processes and interventions that must follow conflicts and violence, even with economic support because, if we do not put our money into it, everything remains on paper. There are still protocols and resolutions, while there are women, men and children for whom there is a need for inclusion programmes to overcome the tragedy of violence. For this reason I thank Senator Fedeli, who was the first signatory to the motion for a resolution before us, but of which we are all signatories: a motion not only for peace but for civilization, for the end of violence, sexual violence, especially in conflicts, and for their denunciation. It is important that all crimes against women, men and children should be exposed through the press and above all within the institutions and where they are commanded. That is what we are asking for. I therefore very much hope that this motion will be a first step in making sure that we can talk about this issue and that it is not just a taboo. You know what happens: you know what happens? It's a crime against humanity now. Therefore, the senators of the Group of the People of Liberty-Forza Italia, who have resigned, vote with conviction in favour of the motion under consideration. ( [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups and Senator Di Biagio. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u47	Mr Manconi (PD). Mr President, Senators and Senators, Madam Deputy Minister, rape as a weapon of war is the darkest and most pernicious heart, most cruel and abject of the fierce catalog of crimes against humanity. But what are crimes against humanity? It is the actions that strike not the enemy as an enemy, but the person because of his being a person. Not the belligerent, the member of a armed army, the actor of a bloody conflict, but the individual as an individual. Crime against humanity attacks and annihilates what, of that individual, represents the essential connotation, the most intimate identity, the deepest constitution and the same ontological root. That is to say, its uniqueness and irreprehensibility and the dignity that gives form to all this. Finally, and for some time now, international law has covered these difficult issues and the jurisprudence of the International Criminal Court and the various international courts investigates, judges and sanctions. Finally. And of that review of horrors, of the geopolitical one of cruelty, rape as a weapon of war represents the most accomplished and perfect paradigm. Rape as a weapon of war mortifies dignity and degrades the body which, of that dignity, is at the same time seat and protection, symbol and very concrete expressive substance. Rape treats that dignity and that body like things. It restores them. By doing what represents a precious and constitutive trait of human identity, an inestimable good of subjectivity, that is, sexuality, is transformed into an instrument of war. And over time, this has made sexual violence the most aggressive and invasive form of war hostility. In the oldest past, in the present and - I fear - in the future. Thus, a terrible fact already recalled by Senator Faedeli and Senator Serra emerges: the weapon of rape is not a side effect, a peripheral activity, an occasional consequence of conflicts. Rather, it corresponds to a real military strategy. In it four different forms of oppression are found, combined and added. Classical violence, proper to war, that of overpowering the enemy; gender violence, that of overpowering the male over female; racial violence, that of ethnic overpowering; and the violence of dominion, that of the overpowering of the powerful overpowering. Look at the faces and bodies of the victims, the painful review of those horrors, the photos of the atrocities and you will have an unequivocal confirmation: in the vast majority of cases the victims are civilians, women and children. In the face of all this, the UN is working, documenting and denouncing, trying to prevent. We all know that this is the hardest undertaking. Just as we know that our act today, the approval of this motion, is certainly a small thing. Just a testimony. But if we want it, it can become a real commitment. We know how the jus in beautiful lives an existence hard and precarious and approximate. But it is everyone's job, and it is up to the democratic parliaments - and so it is our job too - to support it. Everyone do their part. We have an inescapable reference, that article 11 of the Constitution which proclaims the repudiation of war. It is an essential point of principle, but woe to make it an alibi or to justify - by virtue of it - our inertia and our de-responsibility. The repudiation of war must be accompanied by what is written in a very important passage of the motion that we approve today. That is to say, there is no peace without justice, which is not only an extraordinary password and not only the name of a well-deserved radical association, but it is also an ambitious and indispensable program. It is with reference to these two principles, that of the repudiation of war and that which combines peace and justice, that I declare the vote in favour of the motion by the Democratic Group. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, 5 Star Movement, SCpI and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u48	We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 144 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u51	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u52	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Ghedini Rita, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion 144 (text 3), tabled by Senator Faedeli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u55	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, the extraordinary complexity of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 101 of 31 August 2013 laying down urgent provisions for the pursuit of rationalization objectives in public administrations and the very large number of amendments tabled are leading the Commission to an examination which has already occupied many meetings, which will continue until Monday. The Commission is not in a position to report back to the House on the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u56	Thank you. The examination of draft law No 1015 is therefore postponed until next Tuesday, according to the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly already established.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u59	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, on 8 July I made an end-of-session speech on this same subject, but I think this is an extremely important issue. When words such as leukemia, osteo Myelith, or neuroblastoma are pronounced, our reaction is usually contained in a feeling of terror mixed with distress that springs from thinking about the severity of this ruthless form of blood cancer that every year affects thousands of people. The data must certainly raise concern, but at the same time it must not in any way make us think only of the worst, as shown, for a few years, by the many doctors, volunteers and animators involved in the project "Hey, you! Do you have the marrow?So, a great national event that has invaded the Italian squares since 2010 with the aim of raising awareness and informing citizens about the importance of bone marrow donation, as the only hope of survival for the many sick people waiting for transplantation. Therefore, we believe it is essential to join the event that will take place next September 28 thanks to the commitment of the national offices of the Federation We live in positive (VIP), ITALY Onlus and Association of Donors of the bone marrow (ADMO) to help increase the lists that, from 1989 to today, have collected as many as 420,000 registered in the Italian Register of Donors of the bone marrow, recording thanks to this event as many as 1,859 new donors in 2011 and as many as 3,175 in 2012. These numbers hope that for the 2013 event you can reach the threshold of the 4,000 new donors so that you can quickly reach the figure of 500,000 registered in the National Registry in the coming years. It is a goal to which we have the obligation, as well as the duty, to contribute everyone to create this great bank for life through which to offer the only concrete way of healing to the many people forced to fight against these serious pathologies. The cooperation we are called upon has, among other things, taken on an international character. Obviously, in addition to the awareness that can come from us in marrying without if and without but the aims of the initiative, as representatives of this state we also have the duty to act on the regulatory level, committing the Ministry of Health to identify the channels useful to find funds necessary for the realization of the typings and, in general, the operation of the transfusion centers that certainly cannot rely on only volunteering. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to take on this message and this request to the appropriate Ministry of Health. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u62	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the night of 24 September, the inhabitants of Roncigliano, which is an area of the Roman Castles, were forced to gather in front of the entrance of the landfill present on the municipal territory because of the nauseating smell that came from it, smell that they have long, too long been forced to bear and that that night unfortunately became unbearable. Asthma attacks, fainting, interventions of the "118" required by many people: these are the findings of that inauspicious night. Imagine in the following years what these populations will suffer! We have also heard that the smell has spread in all adjacent areas, for miles and miles. We ask ourselves a question: how did NOE and ASL not intervene, even if they were alerted? With an act prepared by the award-winning company Clini-Sottile (remember that Sottile is the extraordinary commissioner for the waste of the Lazio Region, moreover confirmed), with this beautiful act this couple has prepared for Roncigliano the collection of part of the undifferentiated waste of the capital. But, be careful, we are not given to know the quantity or how these wastes are treated, let alone whether they are treated. The nauseous smell evokes a management at least irritating of this landfill. Mr President, we are still talking about landfills, we are identifying landfills here. Commissioner Sottile even identified the site of Falcognana, a few kilometers from Roncigliano. Well, we have the impression that this is not an emergency waste: here we are faced with a collective extermination of the people of Lazio! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Unfortunately, in these months of Parliament, we have had to see decisions taken in favour of new landfills, incineration of waste, appointments of Commissioners that are hardly questionable; and never, ever, have you taken account of our demands. I'd like to ask you a question: do you realize that sooner or later everything comes back? That you are poisoning the layers from which your grandchildren will drink and you are poisoning the food they will eat? No one here is exempt: they will poison you and us. I invite you to come out of this collective hallucination that leads you to think that compromise political solutions are more important than collective health. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani.]] No one will be exempt. Other than extensions and derogations: someone here must assume their responsibilities! It is not only citizens who can always pay. Thank you. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u65	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will make a very quick speech, but I think it is necessary. Just last night I was contacted by the deputy mayor of Castellanza, who informed me of a very heavy intimidation received from those who, this morning, the quaestor of the Province of Varese identified, more or less, as about fifteen individuals. They went under his house and staged a demonstration. The deputy mayor wasn't at home, and one of his neighbors, who came out to complain about the noises, was attacked and had the worst. This is a very serious fact, which took place on the territory: one of those facts that mayors and local administrators are increasingly faced with. It comes from the determination of the municipal administration that, looking at the interest of its own municipality, did not want to bend to the intimidation coming from groups linked to anarchism, social centers and realities that have nothing to do with democratic life. I have been reassured by the quaestor that the attention in this sense is maximum and, knowing the professionalism of the law enforcement agencies present in the province of Varese, I have nothing to fear about it. However, I think it is important to express the solidarity and attention of our Group and that - I am convinced of this - of any democratic representative elected in Parliament and, specifically, here in the Senate. We cannot bend to intimidation: whatever their reasons, they must be expressed in democratic form in the institutions. Those who clash with our local representatives must know that they will have a proud opponent in the North League. We are defenders of democracy, but we certainly do not bow to intimidation, especially when they are mafia-style, antagonistic or, as in this case, anything but democratic. [[Applause from the LN-Aut eM5S groups and Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u66	Senator Candiani, the old peasant wisdom said that sometimes you have to answer cum wheat salt: sometimes this can be the right answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-112.ana.u67	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 11.40 a.m.
