ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 27 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure (at 11:01 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u4	I communicate that on 28 June 2013 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister for Territorial Cohesion: Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 76 of 28 June 2013 on first urgent measures to promote employment, in particular youth, social cohesion, as well as in the field of Value Added Tax (VAT) and other urgent financial measures (890).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u5	Colleagues, I inform you that at the opening of today's afternoon session the figure of Margherita Hack will be remembered. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u6	The next item is the debate on draft law No 783. We are, however, waiting for the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u9	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, as you have pointed out, the government representative is missing. I believe that these are incidents that should not occur because the attention that the Government should pay to Parliament is paramount to any other commitment, particularly when discussing measures in which the Government is required to be present. I would therefore ask you to take immediate action on this matter. Meanwhile, we await the arrival of government representatives in the Chamber. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u10	We take note of that, Senator Volpi. We'll represent the senate's discomfort over this absence. I briefly suspend the meeting pending the arrival of the representative of the Government. (The sitting was suspended at 11.04 a.m. and resumed at 11.21 a.m.) Colleagues, the sitting resumed briefly. We hope that our research will be successful and that within ten minutes the government representative will be able to arrive.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u13	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I find this absence scandalous! The fact that the government does not appear in the Senate Chamber when it should be there is scandalous! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] But they don't have a Undersecretary to send us? Don't they have a missing Undersecretary? Have they forgotten that this is Parliament? Are they around to postpone things and not come to Parliament? Ma'am, I'm really upset. I'm not doing a scene. You know, even for our precorse stories, that I can also understand some situations, but this is an incomprehensible situation. It is incomprehensible: I want to denounce it clearly! It's a slap in Parliament! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u14	Senator Volpi, I take note of your statements and I agree. Starting with the Presidency, this situation will be represented to the Government when it arrives and then formally also to the President of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u17	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I join in the correct protest of my colleague and I also wonder what means of movement the representatives of the government use to get to the Senate. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]] Will they be bottled in some stretch of the city very busy with their blue cars? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I don't know. I arrived this morning with a very normal public transport and I am very punctual. I hope that we will not be in the same position when the sitting is resumed. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u18	The sitting shall be suspended until 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.23 a.m. and resumed at 11.40 a.m.) Let's resume our work. I thank the Undersecretary Vicari, who has made herself available to come, even if she was not in charge of representing the Government. However, although you are not directly responsible, I must represent you, in order to report to the President of the Council and to the entire Government, the very serious inconvenience of the Senate, because it cannot happen, out of respect for the Senate and for the expedition of the legislative measures (among other things it is the conversion of a decree-law that should be particularly dear to the Government), that the Senate suspends its work for forty minutes because of the absence of the representative of the Government. Therefore, I thank you for your willingness because you have no fault and, however, as you are part of the Government, I cannot help but stress the discomfort you have experienced. We will also do so formally, but in the meantime I believe that I must interpret the state of mind of all my colleagues who, perhaps, are even stronger and brighter than I have been able to represent. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and LN-Aut groups]] Let's continue with the discussion of the bill in title. The speakers, Senators Tomaselli and Sciascia, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u19	Madam President, allow me to join you in your words. I am witness to the direct commitment of the Undersecretary Vicari, as he has followed with constancy and commitment the examination of the measure in the Commission. Not so much can be said - unfortunately - of other colleagues in the government. Therefore, we represent our bitterness to the undersecretary Vicars to bring it back to who is competent. I repeat: I acknowledge that the Undersecretary has followed the examination of the measure with constancy and commitment, but we must lament, around this decree-law, the lack of commitment of some Dicasteries, who also have a fundamental role in its examination. Of course, I am not referring to the Ministry of Economic Development. That being said, the draft law converting Decree-Law No 63 contains, in its first part, the transposition of Directive 2010/31/EU on energy efficiency and performance issues in the construction sector. I recall quickly (I will leave the full text of the intervention to the acts) the titles of this directive, whose contents are transposed into the decree-law, starting with the adoption at national level of a methodology for calculating the energy performance of buildings, the setting of minimum energy performance requirements for buildings and the introduction, for the first time in our country, of an absolutely fundamental and important definition: that of the so-called buildings with almost zero energy, resulting in the drafting of a national strategy for their increase through the implementation of a national plan. Finally, I would like to mention the adoption of a system for the certification of the energy performance of buildings. On this first part of the text, in the course of the examination in the Finance and Industry Committees, a number of amendments tabled by various groups were accepted, which, I believe, have undoubtedly made the article more effective and meaningful than the objectives mentioned. In this respect, thank you to all the Groups for their work and their contribution. The decree also contains, in Article 17, a rule that is a sort of sanatorium compared to the classification of installers of installations from renewable sources. In a previous norm in fact some of these installers had been cut off, in particular the artisan installers; with the decree-law whose conversion we are dealing with is cured this penalty, obviously absolutely inappropriate and from several parts complained, starting from the associations of sector, but from all the Groups, also with acts of inspection union introduced in recent months. In the second part of the measure - and I should like to say a few words about this - the rule by which the current system of tax deductions of 55% for measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings is strengthened and extended by the end of the year and by increasing the deduction quota to 65% is included, in particular in Article 14. The cost of replacing heating systems with heat pumps is excluded from the eligible costs. Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a unanimous statement from the Commission on this issue so that, even during the course of the debate in this House, the Government can give us guidance so that we can include these investments among those for which incentives are recognised. It is also provided in this article that the application of what has been established will last until 30 June 2014 for the interventions carried out by the condomini. In Article 16, on the other hand, the extension to 31 December 2013 of the deadline (now to 30 June 2013) of the increase of the IRPEF deduction percentage to 50% (from the original 36 percent) foreseen for the building restructuring costs, to a maximum total amount eligible for contribution of 96,000 euros per housing unit, is reported. The purpose of the extension is to encourage the realization of building renovations with the aim of promoting both the redevelopment of our country's real estate assets and the resumption of the construction market, which traditionally represents one of the most important productive sectors for the growth of the national gross domestic product. In this deduction, 50% is also expected to be eligible for expenses incurred in the purchase of furniture for the furnishing of the property under renovation for a maximum of 10,000 euros. In the Commission's work, we have extended the range of investments that are eligible for household appliances even for free installation, but we have tied the EUR 10,000 for this additional purpose to the total budget of EUR 96,000. I believe that the examination of this House must also clarify this aspect unequivocally, as can be seen from the original reading of the decree as well as from the same statements made by the Government in the Commission, namely that the amount of EUR 10,000 should be considered as additional to the 96,000 relating to building operations. These measures are particularly important and can help to boost construction specialized in a country poor in raw materials such as Italy. Our main internal resource, in fact, is precisely the energy efficiency and the enormous possibility of saving positive spillovers in terms of reducing consumer bills. For these reasons it is essential to act with determination and continuity on the real estate, as well as on its safety and energy efficiency. These measures in these years of application have undoubtedly been one of the main concrete industrial policy actions taken over the last ten years, as well as one of the most significant actions aimed at contributing to the achievement of the national energy targets for 2020. The mechanism of tax deductions linked to investments for energy redevelopment and the restructuring of the real estate has strongly convinced consumers: for the extreme concreteness and effectiveness of the procedures and for the automation that presides over the delivery of the incentive. This is borne out by the data: in the first five years about 5.5% of the national building stock has been subject to energy redevelopment; it is estimated that about 5% of Italian households have taken advantage of these opportunities, for almost 1.5 million applications, with a forecast for the current year of another 250,000 applications. It is, therefore, a useful tool to support the small and medium-sized enterprise of our country, to enhance the Italian industrial chain of construction and plant engineering, contributing to its technological innovation, allowing the maintenance of employment levels and contributing to the emergence of the submerged in an extremely difficult phase for the national economy. In addition, these measures have had and have the advantage of demobilising an important share of internal savings towards productive initiatives with high added value. These are all extraordinarily well-founded reasons why, from here to the end of the year (this is the appeal that I believe we can make to the Government), in the vicinity of the subsequent expiry of these incentives, the Government and Parliament can succeed together where we have not succeeded on this occasion due to obvious budgetary constraints, i.e. to identify resources, methods and instruments to stabilize, even in different and more gradual forms, such important incentives with such decisive results. Like this and the others mentioned earlier, further controversial issues remain in this text regarding which we further urge the Government, as we did in the course of the examination in the Commission, so that appropriate summaries can also be sought in the debate in this House: I am thinking of the clarification of the eligibility for incentives for the safety of seismic-risk buildings and public buildings (now excluded) and the delicate issue of the increase in VAT on supplementary media for publishing products, on which we share the concerns expressed by many. It is, in conclusion, an important and useful measure for the country at such a complicated and difficult stage. We hope that it will be further improved during this parliamentary passage, which we obviously believe should be as fast as possible to give further certainty to investors and families. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u20	I call the rapporteur, Senator Sciascia.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, Decree-Law No 63 contains some provisions that propose the extension, but with significant changes, of tax incentives for energy saving as well as those for building renovations. I remember that they originated far away: since 1988 for the bonuses for renovations and since 2007 for those for energy efficiency. In particular here are some data to demonstrate the importance of tax deductions for the economic sectors concerned: for the construction renovations were presented, all 2012, as many as 5,470,000 applications, for a value of works of 94 billion euros, with generation of deductible amounts of 35 billion euros; for the bonuses for energy redevelopment, again at 31 December 2012, the applications were 1,434,000 for works of amount of 17,2 billion euros and deductible amounts of 9,4 billion euros. It is therefore a very respectable maneuver, the extension of which today, in the midst of a crisis that has led to a significant stasis in various sectors, especially in the building sector, will certainly give breath to the sectors concerned. It should also be stressed that the procedures for obtaining deductions in respect of works for renovations and energy requalifications have, as they have had, a further positive effect: that of allowing greater transparency in the sectors concerned, with disincentive for non-tax-regular operations, also through the need to validate payments through the so-called talking transfer, i.e. the one containing all the data of the interested parties (bonus administrator, contractor, tax codes and VAT number, giving full power to the financial administration of a cross-check). Allow me to make a brief excursus of the provisions. Article 14 of the Decree-Law provides for the extension to 31 December 2013 of the ecobonus for energy saving, but with the exclusion of the costs related to high efficiency heat pumps and low entropy geothermal plants and of the costs for the replacement of water heaters with heat pump appliances. My colleague has already said something about the need to re-introduce this possibility, and we have received a number of suggestions in this regard. In practice, expenses relating to the replacement of thermal plants with condensing boilers, the change of fixtures, the insulation of roofs and walls and the installation of solar panels are confirmed as eligible for bonuses. The deduction measure for expenditure incurred from 6 July 2013 to 31 December 2013 increased from 50% to 65%. However, maximum ceilings for deductible expenditure have been identified below those previously in force, while the maximum amounts of deductions remain confirmed. The deduction of 65 percent is extended to 30 June 2014 for interventions carried out by the condomini. This is justified by the fact that the condominium will is expressed in temporally more complex terms. The deduction shall be broken down into ten annual amounts of the same amount. Finally, it should be noted that the deduction is consistent with that for restructuring, but the two facilities cannot be shared. The deduction for energy saving is also the responsibility of companies, even if they are incorporated in a corporate form (limited liability companies, public limited companies and others), but only for operations carried out on instrumental buildings used in the business. Article 16 of the decree-law is then extended to 31 December 2013 the deduction for building renovations to 50% with a maximum ceiling of 96,000 euros (in my opinion per unit). In this case, too, the deduction is broken down into ten years. A 50% deduction is also recognised for expenses incurred, up to a maximum of 10,000 euros, for the purchase of furniture intended for the furnishing of the units under restructuring. In this case, too, the benefit is broken down into ten years. The Commissions have, moreover, accepted an amendment extending this deduction to large appliances of a class not less than A+ in any case aimed at the furnishing of the buildings under renovation. The amount of the deduction - according to the Commissions - equal to 10,000 euros is to be considered included in the amount of the deduction of 96,000 euros. Articles 19 and 20 have, as from 1 January 2014, rules of a fiscal nature to cover the costs referred to in the previous concessionary provisions. Article 19 provides for an increase in the VAT rate to 21% for supplementary media attached to editorial products, namely: gadgets; supplementary media (i.e. CDs or DVDs) attached to the magazine for promotional purposes, but without any direct connection with the editorial product; functional media related to the editorial product such as, for example, those attached to vocabularies, school editions (see the grammars of foreign languages that are poor in operation without the related support that teaches the correct pronunciation), children's books, technical-professional publications, etc. In this respect, we hope that the Government will accept the call made by both rapporteurs to see whether this further case can be envisaged among those not subject to increase. Article 20 provides, again from 1 January 2014, for the increase of VAT from 4% to 10% for the administration of food and drink made with vending machines located in establishments, hospitals, nursing homes, offices, schools, barracks and other offices intended for community purposes. With this amendment, the Joint Commissions proposed extending VAT by 10% to the administration of food and drink via vending machines and, therefore, to all administrations, irrespective of the location of the equipment. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u24	Mr Baretta, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Madam President, the Government will respond at the end of the general debate. However, I think it is necessary to apologize to the Senate immediately for the disguido that occurred at the opening of the proceedings, due to a misunderstanding in the agendas. I believe it is my duty to formally apologise to the House for the misunderstanding about the timetables. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u25	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u26	Madam President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the provision that the Senate is dealing with contains the transposition of the European Directive 2010/31/EU by means of significant additions to Legislative Decree No 192, 19 August 2005, and other important provisions (as we have already heard). Beyond the confirmation, and simultaneous increase to 65%, of the tax deduction for energy efficiency interventions, it would be limiting if we were only in the presence of a mere transposition of a directive to avoid the continuation of the infringement procedure; in this case, we might not be able to fully grasp an important opportunity to relaunch. With this in mind, I would like briefly to take up the concept of efficiency by developing it in three parts: energy efficiency, economic and financial efficiency, operational efficiency. With regard to energy efficiency, it should be stressed the need to promote actions geared to the broad use of green technologies related to Italian materials and production systems (think only of the bulk of wood imports, the thermal insulation par excellence for construction, and the related need to exploit the local wood-energy supply chain) and together to promote actions related to the application of electronic devices for the real-time control of the building's energy needs and consumption, decisive in terms of cost-benefit ratio, also taking the opportunity to promote the fundamental link between energy saving and the dissemination of smart technologies, to be carefully considered among the prerequisites for the same digital modernisation referred to in the specific Agenda. In this logic of integration between technologies and industrial innovation, much will be able to make the planned plan of action for buildings with almost zero energy (Article 5), for which it is desirable to reduce the time of predisposition so that public administrations, designers and operators have clear and definitive paths and guidelines in order to be able to plan the interventions quickly. I now turn to the second part, that of economic and financial efficiency. The core of the application and technological challenge mainly recalls this other efficiency, not at all indicated in several points of the bill: among the purposes of Article 1, Article 5 and, in particular, paragraph 1 of Article 4-b relating to incentives granted in compliance with efficiency requirements and paragraph 2 of the same article where the methods of implementation are quoted through ESCO (Energy service company) or financing through third parties. If a systematic and systematic re-launch of initiatives in the sector with much greater prospects than it can reactivate only the extension of tax deductions, then the ability to activate non-traditional forms of financing represents the possible overcoming of criticalities. I mention only two: the Stability Pact for public bodies and, in general, access to public and private financing. In this direction I hope that the definition of the standard contract that has been entrusted to the preparation of ENEA will be found very quickly; that action will be taken to make the intervention of ESCO as simple as possible; that a verification of the effectiveness and use of the market of energy efficiency securities is activated. Finally, economic efficiency means the optimum use of money: in this case too, it must be stressed that the indications of the bill, very punctual, translate into priority criteria for the allocation of public support and incentives in the name of effective expenditure, that is, able to activate efficiency with an eye to the investment ratio on energy saved. Finally, there is operational efficiency. This covers the chain of actions to be carried out in a coordinated and operational manner and includes research, training, production, business networks, local authorities and ownership. In conclusion, it is necessary to act in practice, among other things, the different articulations of efficiency in order to become a link between the need for technological modernisation of the private and public real estate, to become support and stimulus to research into technological progress of the industry, to become an opportunity for integration with other aspects of innovation, merging into an overall plan capable of supporting and activating multiple initiatives: in a word, so that the objectives of the bill in relation to energy saving become "system." [[Senator Dalla Tor's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u27	She is registered to speak Senator Fabbri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the decree-law before this House today (the so-called ecobonus decree) aims to promote the redevelopment and energy efficiency of Italian real estate in accordance with Community legislation. The introduction of measures to support policies to promote energy efficiency and, in general, measures for sustainable development is undoubtedly an important step towards the recovery of the economy and the revival of consumption. Among the most qualifying points of the decree the forecast of buildings with almost zero energy; still, the rules on the extension of tax incentives for building renovations and its extension to the purchase of furniture. In particular, the measures relating to deductions for improving the energy efficiency of buildings, as well as extending the provisions already in force, provide for a strong strengthening, as mentioned, of the current deduction scheme, which will increase from 55%, for measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, to 65%, concentrating the measure on structural measures that are most suitable to reduce energy needs permanently. These measures are of great importance, able to affect the productivity of the companies with a significant reduction of the costs, thus contributing to the revival of the consumption and giving back at the same time vitality to the entire building sector and the companies of the induced one, that for a long time lives great difficulties. It is precisely in construction that there is a design, technical and constructive revolution, based on speed, safety and environmental sustainability, which has not been observed for decades. A key sector (represents 10% of GDP in Italy), on which to intervene promoting a work of urban regeneration that allows the large-scale rehabilitation of entire areas of cities and territories. The action of redevelopment of housing of the existing heritage aims to improve its comfort and introduce in the construction concepts of energy and environmental sustainability; all in respect of the territory, which must be guarded and not raped. Let me stress the importance that the decree assumes the deduction for the documented expenses for the purchase of furniture aimed at the furnishing of the property under renovation. The decree recognizes, in fact, such deduction to the extent of 50% of the expenses incurred for the furnishing of the property under renovation for a maximum of 10,000 euros. Last week the Finance and Industry Committees worked hard to try to improve the measure and correct the shot on some of the most debated aspects. As far as the issue of deductions is concerned, provision has been made for the extension of the benefit for furniture also to appliances (before not included), even free-standing, of a class of not less than............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Last but not least, these days, with great concern, we read of the events that followed the presentation of the industrial plan of the well-known company Indesit. The set of these provisions could contribute significantly to restoring vitality to a crucial sector of Italian manufacturing such as that of furniture wood, which for some years has been experiencing a profound crisis, especially in Central Italy, with consequent and very serious occupational repercussions. In the course of our examination in the Commission, we have tried, with several proposals, to extend the expected benefits further. However, we had to balance the need to relaunch the sector with budgetary constraints and limited resources and adopt the most balanced solutions, given all the factors and needs at stake, both in terms of growth and the maintenance of the system. In particular, an attempt was made to introduce a further extension of the time frame and to raise the ceiling for expenditure, particularly as a result of the extension of the benefit to household appliances. The inclusion of household appliances, albeit fair, without extending the ceiling, is problematic, as this inclusion reduces the effects expected from the measure on spending on furniture. On this point a concrete commitment by the Government is needed to find the resources necessary for a real recovery of the economy, allowing, above all, small and very small enterprises to get back into play. In this sense the next commitment of the Government should be oriented to extend the deadline scheduled for 31 December 2013, to increase the planned expenditure ceilings and to identify the measures necessary to extend the mechanism of deduction also to other sectors of the Italian manufacturing. Employment and economic development are a priority for the whole of Parliament. Every measure, in our opinion, must reward the know-how, the widespread enterprise and the work, in order to restore dignity to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u29	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u30	Madam President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, in the first part of the decree, Articles 1 to 13 transpose EU Directive No 31 of 2010, making punctual amendments to Legislative Decree No 192 of 2005. With this, albeit late, transposition of the Directive will prevent the European Court of Justice from applying the economic sanctions related to the infringement procedure against Italy for failing to transpose the said Directive. Of course, we highlight how inappropriate the Government's choice to intervene in this matter through the instrument of the decree-law, since the interventions related to the improvement of energy efficiency are of an orderly nature. In the article in question, in fact, there is no need and urgency and therefore it would have been right to intervene with a legislative decree. But we understand that we do not need further sanctions, we need and we have the heavy and humiliating sanctions imposed in recent days by the European Court of Justice for the chronic delays in the construction of the waste disposal plants of the Campania Region. The second part of the decree seeks to meet the expectations of taxpayers and companies operating in the real estate market. It deals with deductions, financial provisions and the qualification of installers. The tax deduction scheme is extended for six months, until 31 December 2013, both for measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, increasing the ecobonus from 55 to 65%, and for building renovations. Important news, not only for the renovated private buildings, is introduced for the first time the tax relief for the purchase of furniture and appliances aimed at furniture, although calculated on a total amount of expenditure limited to only 10,000 euros. This is also an important action that will give support to companies operating in the sector. Too bad, however, that the sum is not added to the expenditure ceiling of EUR 96,000 but is included. Analyzing in detail some technical provisions of the measure, as the Lega Nord Group we consider important the introduction, in Article 5, of the concept of almost zero energy buildings, with reference to the buildings of new construction of public administrations from 31 December 2018. This obligation, however, can only come from the exclusion of the investment costs of the municipalities from the Stability Pact. On the other hand, we have more than one reserve for the forecasts of Article 6 which regulates the issue of the energy performance certificate of public and private buildings not only in the case of construction, renovation and sale, but also in anticipation of a new lease of the building. It is clear that the introduction of the obligation to issue such a certificate will inevitably lead, on the one hand, to an increase in property prices and, on the other hand, to higher costs for tenants, who will be accompanied by the heavy increases in the fees deriving from the onerous transition in 2012 from the ICI to the IMU of the Monti Government, voted by PD, PdL and UDC. Other heavy tasks, also introduced by Article 6, concern, for example, the very short time for public administrations to equip buildings with the energy performance certificate. Times that risk not being respected. For Municipalities and Provinces means, at PEG 2013 approved, to find not a few resources and to entrust the assignments quickly. Even the ten-year validity of the certificate, even if there is no renovation that changes the energy class of the building, seems excessive. The Group of the North League, on the other hand, welcomes the articles of the decree introducing extensions to the tax relief scheme. These facilities are a valuable instrument to support the investments of construction and induced enterprises, in support of their growth and development. The positive effects of these measures fall on the entire economic system of the country as the same not only contribute to the emergence of the submerged in sectors considered strategic for the economic recovery, such as the construction one, but also represent an important support for the revival of consumption and the fight against unemployment. The North League, with a number of amendments, has tried to make its contribution to improving the text. First of all, we ask that maximum rigour be applied against the smart ones asking for the cancellation of the tax benefits in case of the finding of abusive property, not in order with the payment of the IMU. Finally, a remark that I think should make Members and especially those who are anxious about energy saving think about performance. The first part of the Decree-Law transposes the European Directive, which, on the one hand, represents a stimulus and promotes sensitivity in energy saving measures, on the other hand, entails additional burdens and obligations for public administration and taxpayers. That is why it would be appropriate to avoid doing the first in the class by going beyond the demands of the European directive, given the period of economic crisis. In this sense, the amendment tabled by the 5 Star Movement and accepted by the majority in the Commission, which imposes the obligation of the certificate even in the case of a free transfer of real estate, we absolutely do not agree with it and we will vote against it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u31	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u32	Citizens of the Senate, good morning. We are a country by definition industrialized and energetic. Our national energy bill affects the trade balance for frightening figures, destined to increase. Despite this, we act as if we are rich Arab or Texan producers of the time it was. In fact, we allow ourselves to waste energy with ease, as if this had no weight on the fate of our country. A few weeks ago there was a stir in the news that one Sunday afternoon this country fed itself at zero cost for a couple of hours, thanks to renewable energy. He shouted at the miracle and it was said that this is the way: to produce clean energy, reducing the cost of the national energy bill and also reducing our dependence on fossil sources, of which we notoriously do not have much availability. All true, for Christ's sake, but this is only part of the solution. We need to work to increase energy efficiency. In Europe, as usual, they arrived before us. In Germany, for example, they understood that energy must be used in the best way, in industry, in transport, in agriculture, in infrastructure and in homes. And while in Germany, as in Sweden and in many other countries, the ability to guarantee a given production process or the provision of a service (e.g. heating) through the use of the lowest amount of energy possible is implemented, in Italy it is preferred to dust the nuclear or energy produced by the incineration of undifferentiated waste, to be added to renewable sources, perhaps to tacit consciences. But do we really think we can fill a pasta rack with water? Do we think renewable energy is the only solution? We need to change perspective. We want to remind all of us that energy is the great dominus of development and transformation as we have conceived it in the capitalist era; an era destined to end. At a time when the availability of low-cost fossil sources is in irreversible crisis, it is essential to take the path that will lead us to decarbonisation of production and life cycle. Making a system efficient means that it can work with less energy and that it is energy from quality sources, i.e. also produced efficiently and without affecting the environment. We must therefore intervene not only on the supply of energy but also on demand. Do not think that it is simply a question of reducing consumption, of saving. Savings and efficiency are not synonymous: with efficiency you save, but the opposite is not always true. We need to do more by using less energy. Just think of the employment spillover that an effective efficiency campaign produces. Think also only of the redevelopment of our (immense) building heritage. Our construction companies, which may suffer the crisis more than elsewhere, must (underline) find in redevelopment the way to rise again. Countries and cities must (subline must) be born again and become a model to imitate. We could even combat the tragic trend towards the consumption of the territory, avoiding building new houses, which we do not need, but requalifying the existing, adapting it to the parameters of energy efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a great opportunity and a great responsibility: we must plan, plan and implement operational instruments and strategies that allow us to consume less energy on the same level of services offered and we must do so with foresight, looking at the next fifty years and not next week. With regard to the capacity to plan, unfortunately, this Government and this House have not been up to date. It is in fact still alive the memory of the endless extensions and of the many, too many commissioners appointed in the last months for the anxiety to "do" at any cost anything, without construct. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are giving a proof of maturity, not only today, but also later on, avoiding that lobby interests and bureaucracy will force you in the future to postpone, modify or abandon this which is the most logical path, the one that would choose a good family father. You will see that those who come after us will be grateful. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caridi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u34	Madam President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of energy efficiency and the redevelopment of Italian real estate can and must play a major role, both in quantitative and qualitative terms, in the context of the economic policies that the Government intends to pursue. Improving the energy efficiency of buildings and the use of renewable energy sources in buildings are important measures in order to reduce energy dependence from abroad and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is also the moment in which it is worth observing, with even greater attention than usual, the economy of our country, because our production system has been hit by an unprecedented world crisis that has exacerbated the historical difficulties of the Italian business system, an articulated and complex system, today not fertile to the industrial initiative and, even more, to the green economy. The line taken by the Government with the measure under consideration highlights the Commission's commitment to Europe to two infringement procedures against Italy, but also offers the opportunity to intervene to promote the development and competitiveness of national industry through the technological development of sectors vital to the economy such as energy and the environment. The strengthening of the current system of tax deductions for interventions to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, also in the light of the amendments presented, will certainly give a strong boost to the sector's economy and in particular to the specialized building sector, a sector characterized by a strong employment base, contributing at this time of crisis to the revival of growth and employment and the development of a strategic sector for sustainable growth. I think it is appropriate, ladies and gentlemen, to allow the possibility of making more effective use of these incentives in favour of families and businesses, by providing for the opportunity to use demolition and reconstruction works with small volume increases; a possibility clearly marked by respect for environmental regulations, linked to the achievement of the highest energy classes in order to anticipate European standards and activate a number of small interventions that can offer job opportunities for the local small business. All this can be a basis on which to build an energy policy that allows all newly built buildings, by 31 December 2020, to be almost zero-energy. It is therefore necessary to intervene with this measure not only to respond directly to European provisions, but also to seize the opportunity to trigger new development processes that guarantee economic and sustainable growth. In view of the increased administrative burden that the European directive itself provides for public administrations to play an exemplary role in energy efficiency, the introduction of measures to reduce the burden on citizens and public administrations is also welcome. Regions should also adapt to this new construction system by providing, in the next regional programming integrated to that of the Community 2014-2020, related interventions also and above all in the light of the progress of operational tools of transformation of the cities. Look, for example, at the city plan, which can promote urban policies through the affirmation of urban and environmental regeneration as a strategic key to development. We must implement intelligent urban development policies that avoid the collapse of a territory, such as the Italian one, already strongly compromised. But it is also necessary to encourage the re-use of the existing building stock as a resource to be protected also for the prevention of hydrogeological risks. Finally, it is clear that strategies between Italian and European institutions must be interdependent and concomitant. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u35	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Senator Tomaselli for his work in the Commission and for what he has emphasized in his report. However, I would like to focus and draw your attention to some general aspects of energy retrofitting, namely energy redevelopment, which seek to grasp the substance of the issues contained in the decree-law for our examination. For a number of reasons, attention to real estate has developed considerably. It was a long process, which followed, as is natural, a cultural path that generated a widespread awareness on issues that have their center in the quality of building, in seismic safety, in energy consumption, in water saving, in building materials, in the comfort of environments. Of course, all this has unfortunately only happened at the end of a powerful economic cycle that has firmly relied on building development. The construction industry has always supported the development phases, but over the last twenty years it has also been the protagonist of speculative and financial bubbles that have even made urban and building expansion tumultuous. Today, therefore, we find ourselves with a large building stock whose characteristics are often insufficient, especially with regard to energy performance. To be clear, it is not only the buildings built after the Second World War that have low energy performance: even the building designed in the early 2000s sometimes does not have much better characteristics. It has therefore happened, first, that attention to these issues has been given to an enlightened client or to innovative entrepreneurship. In this respect, we understand the importance of redevelopment, which today is above all an energy redevelopment and an anti-seismic improvement. The energy redevelopment of the existing building stock has now been developed into many of its technical implications, and it is possible to make a few brief considerations, which may seem elementary, but which help to capture some of the contents of the measure that we are about to approve. In fact, there is to be asked, beyond all the indications contained in the decree, what are the concrete interventions in force regarding the energy saving and the energy redevelopment of the buildings. There are essentially two incisive and possible interventions, namely those that can actually be carried out in a practical way. First of all, those on the building envelope: being the casing the predominant part of the dispersing surfaces, the intervention on the casing determines the strongest recovery of performance. The second intervention is on the plant, in particular on the heat generators and on the thermoregulation systems of the environments. On these two main points there is a substantial convergence of the redevelopment activity which gives the substance of the saving in building in the redevelopment of the built heritage. But is it convenient to do energy redevelopment? Many ask this question, and first of all we need to define what convenience is to be measured. Here you enter a delicate terrain, because certain choices can be considered right and therefore necessary at all costs; otherwise, analyzing the costs, instead, allows you to have some useful indications. From checks that have now been carried out on the historian, even with studies of universities or in the context of European projects that compare the experiences in various countries of the Union, it emerges that the average plausible investments, which are those that I remembered before, that is, the interventions on the envelope and the plant, have times of return (payback period) that are around twenty years. So, payback periods of this type are hardly attractive, even for a family who may feel that they have bought the house of life. Investments that have this length of return are calculated considering to equalize the investment with the expected savings on energy bills of the coming years. At this point, we understand the reason for the incentives: if we do not give the incentives, we do not return the times of return in acceptable terms, which fall precisely to ten years, allowing also forms of financing that can be activated. Finally, I would like to mention one aspect: the energy performance certificate. This certificate gives the possibility to citizens who buy or even rent a property to make a choice not only with respect to the criteria that most interest them, but also with respect to a specific topic. Therefore, to carry out the energy performance certificate for both the houses of property and the rented ones means to put the citizens in a position to choose more consciously. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u36	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u37	Madam President, if we were to transpose Community legislation, in this umpteenth omnibus decree No 63, we would be faced with a so-called gold plating effect, which is referred to in the recommendation to prevent over-regulation from the minimum from Community sources, in particular to avoid introducing or maintaining obligations... which are not strictly necessary for the implementation of the directives. The source of this definition is on the website of the Italian Government. We are now in the process of converting a decree aimed at promoting the improvement of the energy performance of buildings, promoting the development, exploitation and integration of renewable sources, supporting energy diversification, promoting the competitiveness of national industry through technological development and achieving national energy and environmental objectives. So we find ourselves, precisely in this omnibus decree, in front of a classic gold plating effect. Even Senator Marinello, for example, after rejecting my request for discussion of the motion on the extraction of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, is today hit by the omnibus virus and puts in this decree his amendment 14.0.5 on the prohibition of extraction within twelve miles. In Article 21, on the other hand, paragraph 1, increases, within the Social Fund for employment and training, the resources allocated to the financing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation. Paragraphs 2 and 3 provide for the refinancing of the Treaty of Friendship, Partnership and Cooperation between the Italian Republic and the Great Libyan Arab Socialist People's Jamahiria, made in Benghazi in 2008. In particular, Article 5 of Law No 7 of 2009 is refinanced for as much as 413 million euros for the period 2014-2023, in order to reintegrate the resources necessary for the implementation of the aforementioned law of ratification, or for the realization of special initiatives for the benefit of the Libyan people, as well as the collaboration in the fight against terrorism, organized crime, drug trafficking, illegal immigration and also for the realization of basic infrastructure projects that are agreed between the two countries. Now, I do not know who among my colleagues here knows details of implementation with regard to this Treaty Italy-Libya, but perhaps I found it (I say it with extreme irony) the link of the placement in this decree of the refinancing of this Treaty Italy-Libya: I believe that the link is Article 18 of the Treaty, called "Energy collaboration", i.e. a basically pro-ENI rule, since the rule practically provides for the strengthening of the partnership in this field attaches particular importance to renewable energies, encouraging cooperation between bodies and bodies of the two countries, and on the industrial level of research and training. But the specific point is as follows: in Article 21 there are several problematic aspects in relation to the methods used for the financial coverage of the decree-law under consideration, especially with regard to the provisions that refinance the interventions of the law of ratification of the Treaty with Libya and, subsequently, reduce to cover the same appropriations carried out by the same Treaty. This is a very unclear accounting operation. It is represented, in fact, that, since they are capital resources, their use for current purposes (less current revenue) represents a dequalification of expenditure. The impact on public debt should then be clarified more precisely. Moreover, it should be noted that the resources in question are intended to fulfil Italy's obligations under the 2008 Treaty of Friendship with Libya: compliance that the transfer of its resources would seem to make it inevitable to postpone. Finally, there is evidence of a significant insufficiency of the coverage for around 368 million euros, in relation to 2024, in violation of paragraph 3 of Article 17 of the current accounting law, which requires the precise indication of the coverage, with the specification, for current expenditure and for lower revenue, of the annual charges until the complete implementation of the rules. The technical report shows that the resources used to cover EUR 229 million would be insufficient even if only to cover the expenditure authorisation of EUR 413 million. The citizens of the Movement, in the light of the fact that a large part of the burden is configured as a forecast of expenditure, highlight the need to accompany the clause covering the special safeguard clause. We therefore believe that it should be included. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u39	Madam President, Mr Undersecretaries, Mr Senators, Decree-Law No 63 sets out, among the main objectives, to improve the energy performance of buildings, to promote the technological competitiveness of industry and to achieve national energy objectives. The measure specifically supports families facing the renovation of a property. Thanks to the extension and increase of deductions, it is easier to pursue the energy efficiency objectives set out in the 2010 Directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council. It is precisely in this spirit that, by signing a letter, on 10 May 34 senators of three majority political forces, all the business, industrial, craft and commercial associations in the sector and the three main trade unions asked the Minister for Economic Development for the extension of the facilities also to sectors complementary to the restructuring and in particular that of wood furniture and that of household appliances. In view of the fact that the decree explicitly includes furniture, together with other senators we have tabled an amendment to extend the deductible also to large white appliances of free installation and energy efficient class. This amendment was endorsed by the Budget, Finance and Industry Commissions and the Government represented there. The unanimous agreement is explained by the conviction that the citizens can enjoy greater facilities without these gravitations on the public accounts, since the limit of 10,000 euros already provided for in the decree for the furnishings only has not been changed. In addition to helping families, we give an opportunity to the household appliances industry, which boasts an active trade balance as we have always been an exporting country. Our industry, however, continues to support technological innovation with its own funding, with a significant research and development activity, in order to create products with ever more efficient energy performance. Not only the manufacture, but also the trade in the sector is a flagship of the country: few multinationals and many Italian entrepreneurs, whose companies offer a qualified service to the consumer, also thanks to the continuous modernization of the points of sale and the training of the staff. In retail distribution alone, 24,000 workers are employed, almost all of them indefinitely, half of whom are under 40 years of age and 28 percent are under 29. Young people are, therefore, many; those same young people who today Europe and our Government want to help find work. The development sector has a turnover of about 10 billion euros, of which more than a fifth generated by household appliances, sector that, from 2011 to today, in only two years and a few months, has lost 19 percent of the turnover. In conclusion, Mr President, extending ecobonus to large white appliances of free installation and high energy efficiency means keeping research alive for the efficiency of energy consumption, ensuring a high level of employment, especially of the youth one, supporting today's heavily depressed domestic consumption, helping the Italian families who want to invest in the house for their future. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u41	Madam President, as has already been said by many Members, this is an important measure which, in my opinion, pursues two objectives in the right direction: on the one hand, to improve the conditions of our environment, to promote energy saving, to improve the energy efficiency of our buildings, on the other hand, to support a sector in great crisis such as construction, giving oxygen to the companies operating there. We have tabled a number of amendments to this measure and two agendas to try to improve it further, to try to highlight two issues that, I believe, need to be addressed. Firstly, it is a question of correcting the interpretation provided by the revenue office which allows the benefits of restructuring and energy efficiency to companies that invest these deductions and use these benefits for buildings dedicated exclusively to production. This is a very restrictive interpretation, which prevents an important part of this country's social housing from intervening to restructure its housing. I am thinking of individual-owned cooperatives, of the 40,000 families living in their housing, where residents have no right to restructure, and therefore do not have the possibility to benefit from these deductions, but on the other hand, cooperative property is not recognized the possibility to enjoy these benefits. Mr President, the second issue that we have put forward and continue to put - and I hope that the Government and the majority will take charge of it - concerns the great heritage of public housing which in many areas of this country is abandoned to degradation. Reasoning there of energy efficiency, of the possibility of consuming less, really seems a utopia compared to the condition of many popular neighborhoods in our big cities. This measure rightly stresses the need to give priority to the offices of the public administration, schools, for energy efficiency interventions. We believe that public heritage must also be designated, that there is a need for serious intervention on such a degraded public heritage, on which it is necessary to intervene primarily in the interests of the inhabitants, of the quality of their lives, and of the costs that the inhabitants of the people's homes have to bear in the face of costs which, in the absence of energy efficiency, are increasingly high. But it is also the public interest to stop the degradation, so as not to further devalue a heritage as large as that of public housing. I hope that the Government and this Parliament, when considering the amendments, will pay attention to these issues. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u42	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u43	Madam President, the measure we are examining today is undoubtedly the result of a noble will to renew the potential of our country on a sensitive side, such as the redevelopment and energy efficiency of the Italian real estate, in a perspective of compliance with European legislation and in the full awareness of their obligations. It should not be forgotten, among other things, that such provisions have an unavoidable priority: to combine in a pragmatic way three aspects, sustainability, growth and employment, since they are operational lines that should be the undisputed reference of government action and any intervention, especially at such a delicate stage for the country in which some operating sectors are virtually stationary. The representatives of the major sectors also highlighted their satisfaction with the measure in the hearings held in the Commission. As has been pointed out by them, the decree-law can have positive effects on the Italian economy, intervening in support of a particularly important sector that is currently experiencing a strong operational impasse. There was also reference to some studies that would confirm the great potential, with a positive economic return, of many energy efficiency interventions provided for in the measure, although - in my opinion - not sufficiently in-depth. In the face of these unavoidable needs, Parliament should have as its priority to develop efficient and pragmatic ways of intervention, capable of overcoming the limits of policy, the weight of interests and the right to the efficiency of a rule and its speedy implementation. But unfortunately, that was not the case. We cannot overlook the absence of a single Government response to the general strengthening and strengthening of the incentive formulas adopted. Just as we cannot overlook the rather questionable dynamics that marked the development of the legislative process of the measure itself, starting from the Commissions of competence to which the decree was assigned in the referent. The overall aims of the Decree-Law and the examination of the individual articles have attested to the full and primary competence of the Environment Commission, which could have expressed itself in a manner that was more in line with its specific competences. Unfortunately, the involvement of the Environment Commission - in which I was rapporteur - has been limited to the consultative body, through the expression of an opinion which, although detailed and in-depth, is far removed from the unexplored potential that the non-referential headquarters has determined. In addition, the comments and conditions expressed by the Commission were not taken into account by the Commissions in the contact person. It seems questionable at this point to accept that a Commission, although competent specifically for more than 70% of the measure, should limit its operation and reduce its margin of intervention, perhaps accepting supinously what the Government has indicated or what emerges in the questionable agreements that have been there. All this pushes us to more complex reflections, especially in the light of what was then outlined at the Commissions in the referent, where the representatives of the Government showed not little rigidity and closure and where the amending choices to the decree-law seem to have been dictated not by comparison or deepening on certain issues, but by political opportunities. It seems reasonable to ask what a Commission should be dealing with. In the case of the Budget Commission, the priority was probably to formulate political opinions to replace those of a financial nature to which it should be held. They certainly did not leave the negative opinions given by the Budget Commission indifferent to certain proposals for amendments which, although they did not bear any burden, have been removed from the debate and discussion for reasons beyond our reach. The high number of opposing opinions, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, makes it necessary to deepen politically for those aspects which are not strictly related to the assessment of the adequacy of financial coverage. A fairly clear example can be given by an amendment, on which the Budget Commission has expressed a negative opinion, to Article 2 of the Decree-Law introducing a renewed definition of cogeneration with the risk of creating critical and unfunctional duplications of what already exists. Although the amendment provided for the use of definitions already provided for in Community directives and national transposition rules, providing for the definition of cogeneration and high-efficiency cogeneration through the explicit reference of regulatory references, it was marked as burdensome. In this respect, it would be appropriate for the Budget Commission to explain to us the parameters within which it is called upon to operate and the criteria under which it will exclude a proposal for a correction from the parliamentary comparison. I do not wish to express any criticism of the political dynamics which often underlie the choices and which tend towards the adoption of this or that proposed amendment. But I believe that the two sides (the technical and the political) must remain separate or, at least, move around in the seats that are in charge of them. The promiscuity of these two sides or their reciprocity are likely to seriously affect the very ratio of parliamentary action and democratic confrontation at the basis of the legislative process. The conflicting attitude between some of the government and parliamentarians we have witnessed in the Commission results in the inability to have a unique strategic approach to the decree-law, de facto mortifying the role of Parliament and reducing it to the presence alone. The Decree-Law should serve to relaunch certain economic sectors while ensuring energy efficiency, but in this way the margin of intervention is limited to bone, once again postponing the actual measures for political reasons. What has happened is a metaphor for the operational functionality of this Parliament, on which I call on all those present to reflect. We have offered the opportunity to make adjustments with a view to growth and efficiency, but there has been no opportunity to help improve the measure. I refer to the proposed amendments aimed at avoiding new infringement procedures, calling for the textual transposition of Articles 6 and 7 of Directive 2010/31/EU. It would have been strategic for the implementation of the home plan, urban restructuring measures and the city plan to literally include the legislative provision of the directive on the adoption of alternative systems, including cogeneration. A further reference must be made to the definitions reported by article 2, paragraph 1, among which it would have been appropriate, in order to avoid confusion and misinterpretation, to insert the definition of renewable sources integrated from that of biomass more updated, pursuant to article 2, paragraph 1, letter e), of the legislative decree 3 March 2011, n. 28. It would have been appropriate to operate in a harmonious and consistent manner with what already provided for in the legislation, in order not to create those conflicts such as to legitimize an operational impasse. But there are those who march us in the normative confusion. It would have been appropriate to take further action on Article 14 by broadening the audience of interventions targeted at incentive formulas, for example through the forecast of the incentive use of heat pumps in the field of efficient energy production and, for example, through micro-cogeneration units and plants and small high-efficiency cogeneration in buildings that guarantee efficient energy production. This, in my opinion, could have been seen as a wide-ranging wish for action which, by ensuring the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2010/31/EU, has the primary objective of restarting the economy by giving work to companies and increasing efficiency levels. I conclude, Madam President, by stressing that we must put Parliament's role at the centre. The economic situation, the country's difficulties and the urgency of being swift cannot and must not be used as excuses to bypass the normal steps of parliamentary confrontation. This is a duty to the citizens who are waiting for our answers. My aim is to shift the comparison of the amendments from the Commission to the House. Therefore, I will not withdraw those at my signature; rather I will take care to intervene on each of them just to make them understand the scope and initiate constructive reasoning in a forum that would be a member of this, if only until I perceive some common sense. [[Applause from the SCPI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u44	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u45	Madam President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, the examination in the Commissions meeting 6a and 10a has partially improved the Decree-Law of 4 June 2013 No 63, which lays down urgent provisions for the transposition of Directive 2010/31/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 May 2010 on energy performance in buildings for the definition of infringement procedures initiated by the European Commission, as well as other provisions on social cohesion. The urgent decree is necessary in order to avoid heavy sanctions for failing to comply with the obligations of Directive No 31 of 2010 of the European Union, which - I recall - aims to promote the energy performance of buildings, their parts and housing units in order to promote the redevelopment and energy efficiency of the Italian real estate, in accordance with European Union law and the approaching expiry of the current benefits. The objectives of the Decree-Law are to promote the improvement of the energy performance of buildings, to promote the development, enhancement and integration of renewable sources in buildings, to support energy diversification and to make Italian industry competitive with technological development. The advantages that will be obtained with this decree, also in the light of some changes to the text made in the Commissions reunited 6a and 10a, relate to the tax deductions on interventions to improve the energy efficiency of the buildings. It goes from 55 percent to 65 percent. The increase in the percentage of the deduction will certainly give impetus to the sector's economy and above all to the specialised building sector, which provides high levels of employment. On the merits, it will be up to the deduction of the gross tax for a quota of 65 percent of the amounts remaining to be borne by the taxpayer, divided into ten annual quotas of equal amount for the documented expenses and incurred from 1 July 2013 until 31 December 2013 and 30 June 2014 for the important renovations of the entire building. Moreover, by 31 December 2020 all new buildings will have to be almost zero-energy. New buildings occupied by public administrations and owned by the latter will have to comply with the same criteria from 31 December 2018. There is a system to certify the energy performance of buildings, including information on energy consumption, as well as recommendations for cost improvement. The certificate shall be drawn up in the event of the construction, sale or rental of a building or a building unit, and in the case of buildings occupied by the public administration. The Guarantee Fund is also used to support the implementation of energy efficiency improvement projects in public buildings. In addition, new buildings and those undergoing major renovations are provided with an energy performance certificate prior to the issue of the certificate of agibility. It is also expected that the 50% IRPEF discount for furniture will be extended for the furnishing of refurbished buildings, for large appliances, including free-standing appliances, of a class not less than A for equipment for which the energy label is intended. The extension of the renovation bonus refers only to built-in appliances. The owners of real estate that are carrying out, or that will carry out, real estate renovations will therefore be able to benefit from an IRPEF discount of 50% for an amount not exceeding 96,000 euros until the end of the year and, within this limit, a quota of 10,000 euros can destined for the purchase of furniture from 1 July. With regard to the administration of food and drink via vending machines located in establishments, hospitals, nursing homes, offices, schools, barracks and other buildings intended for the community, the amendment in my signature makes corrections to the rule in order to make it clear that these administrations, wherever they are made, are subject to the VAT rate of 10%. In conclusion, I hope that this decree-law can be converted as soon as possible by the House, precisely because of what was mentioned in the premises, namely that it is necessary and urgent to promote the redevelopment and energy efficiency of our real estate in accordance with the 2010 European directive. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u46	I would like to refer the following to the afternoon sitting of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u49	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, what happened on the evening of 29 June 2009 in Viareggio is something unimaginable: 33 people lost their lives in an absurd way, while on a quiet summer evening they were walking, watching television or returning home. The claims submitted for financial support after the accident were 127, but only 101 were accepted. As spokesperson for the citizens, I collected the message of the writer Gianluca Ferrara, who I am preparing to read to you: Today, 29 June, four years have passed since the massacre of Viareggio. A massacre in which 33 people were killed by a criminal mentality that protects capital leaving work unsafe. The sender, it is well to remember, is this economic model. Mauro Moretti, the managing director of the Ferrovie dello Stato group, called the massacre "a very unpleasant episode." A phrase that muddles the memory of those who have been victims and exacerbates the pain of the survivors and family members of the victims. A justice pursued by the driver Riccardo Antonini who free of charge made available to the family of the victims his advice and for this reason he was fired. Four years have passed since that damned 29 June and in via Ponchielli (the road destroyed by fire) the works still have to finish. The space in front of the road until three days ago was completely invaded by weeds that made the area degraded and abandoned, but a few days before every 29 June as every year, in a few hours, cleaned up everything. Meanwhile on the casina of memories where the messages are kept, the images of that terrible summer night, the flag of our country still waves at half-auction. It will only be raised when there is justice. While waiting for truth and justice, I ask the Presidency to at least keep the memory alive at the next sitting by dedicating a minute's silence to the victims. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u52	GRANAIOLA (PD). Madam President, as Senator Bottici recalled, four years have passed since that tragic night and four years are many, but not for Viareggio, not for those who have lost their loved ones, not for a city that struggles to get out of a nightmare that has taken away 32 lives, sowing destruction and dismay, terror and pain. The houses have been rebuilt, but the wounds of the soul and heart cannot be sewn up. That is why, Madam President, I thank you on behalf of all the family members and the whole city if you will allow us to remember with a minute's silence in this House that night of hell, because at this very moment we need your solidarity and your closeness more than ever. We are in fact in the middle of a preliminary hearing at the court of Lucca that, as Daniela Rombi, president of the association that brings together the family members of the 32 victims, is very long and painful. During this hearing to all of us, and unfortunately to family members, it was to listen to shameful absurdities that add pain on pain, dismay and anger. A defense attorney from the CEO of the State Railways, Mauro Moretti, said in the courtroom of the Lucca court that the disaster was predictable because the infrastructure is full of elements that can open a wagon, unpack, break a cistern. And at this very moment, in which the preliminary hearing is being held, another attorney of Ferrovie has just explained that 32 burned deaths are not a massacre but a misfortune; misfortunes that, listening again to the lawyers of Ferrovie, can be repeated every day because - as it is argued - the railway net is not a billiard and there are an infinite number of elements that can open a wagon, break a cistern. This listens to the relatives of the victims, the wounded, those who mourn and destroy. But Viareggio has returned to the square and has narrowed itself around his dead and the demand for truth and justice that cannot fail to find an answer. In fact, if today is a time of mourning it is also a time of hope. I have confidence in justice and in the concrete possibility of obtaining the answers implored in recent years. To betray this trust, which is that of an entire city and, I hope, of an entire country, would be to assign a fatal blow to those who believe that at least justice can give some peace to those who will have forever the life upset by a tragedy too great. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u55	D'ALI' (PdL). Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the People of Freedom I support the request for a moment of special remembrance of the massacre in Viareggio. I also agree with the fact that after four years there has been a preliminary hearing with regard to the determination of responsibilities, particularly as regards the lengths of the committees of inquiry and judicial investigations. I think if Viareggio hasn't forgotten it's right that he doesn't forget the whole country. This is an important moment. I would like these things no longer to happen in the future, and above all not to have it happen that every time, in order to obtain a rapid response from the competent authorities, both administrative and judicial, we must create family associations and we must push through the media. And this is in order to obtain results that in a civilized country should arrive promptly. I believe that the real positive result of this action should be to have the certainty, that in the field of the prevention of these accidents, our country has made some progress; that, in the wave of that type of misfortune, that they should never happen, has made some progress, has drawn of the lessons, has improved all the procedures of modernization of our network of transports and the safety of the same. A great result, beyond that legitimate and absolutely agreeable of obtaining true justice, would also be to have a strong result in order to the structure of the modernity of our country, in such a way that these episodes never have to occur again. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u58	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we, too, from the Left Ecology and Freedom, join in the words of Senators Bottici and Granaiola and add very few considerations. Meanwhile, we are all waiting, together with the citizens of Viareggio, for the moment of truth. The investigation has already shown that, beyond personal responsibilities, there is a serious problem of maintenance and general safety of the rail network for the transport of goods and for the commuter network. I believe that the best contribution that these parliamentary classrooms can make to the struggle for the truth of the citizens of Viareggio is also to find the necessary resources to put an end to this continuing precariousness of our railway networks. We cannot think of finding money just to invest in pharaonic works for high speed and continue to make commuters travel in absurd routes, without considering that the goods in Italy too still travel on rubber. We also consider unacceptable the dismissal by Ferrovie dello Stato of the trade unionist who made a great deal of truth, almost as if the defense of human lives, safety and legality were subject to a bond of fidelity to Ferrovie. We ask - and we add to the heartfelt requests made - truth and justice for the massacre of Viareggio, which is not only the massacre of the city of Viareggio, but one of the most horrendous massacres that has struck us Italian citizens. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u61	GIANNI (SPI). Madam President, the Civic Choice Group joins the deep and moved mourning for the commemoration of that terrible day when an unacceptable tragedy took place throughout the country in Viareggio. In addition to thanking for the concession that will be made to commemorate with a minute's silence in this House this terrible tragedy, I would like to add the hope that this silence will stop for a clarity and a truth that has also been invoked by others. Those who know that area personally, that railway road, perhaps have the well-founded suspicion, along with all the families involved, that that tragedy could be avoided. Four years are many for not having managed to reach a deepening: we want to hope that we begin to work to arrive at a truth that brings justice and ensures a condition of prevention of other disasters, now unacceptable in a modern and advanced country.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u64	Barani (GAL). Madam President, of course we in the Group of the Grand Autonomousists and Freedoms share what has been said about this predictable massacre, but we believe that a minute's silence is not enough. From the speeches of my previous colleagues (and I thank my colleague Bottici for reminding us of this tragedy), from Senator Petraglia and Senator D'Alì, great accusations have arrived to the undisputed leader, the master, of Ferrovie dello Stato for a few decades, namely Mauro Moretti. I believe that justice will be done when this House actually asks for a motion to resign because it is inadequate to lead State Railways.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u65	Colleagues, in associating myself with the mourning and remembrance of the victims of the massacre in Viareggio, I will represent to the President the request, which will certainly be accepted, for a minute of commemoration, not considering that this can be done now at the end of the sitting and in the semi-empty Chamber. So it will be done at the most opportune time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u68	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, on the amendment of Article 138 of the Constitution we have spoken repeatedly and harshly in this House and in the Commission and with my colleagues we will still do so, but we have read with alarm Professor Lorenza Carlassare's statements on the work on amending the Titles of the Constitutional Charter. Today we are even more alarmed and wonder what is going on, which, beyond words, will happen to our Constitution now that we learn from the media that J.P. Morgan, a leading financial giant in global services, in a report on the euro crisis of 28 May last, says that in Europe we cannot apply the necessary austerity measures because of the anti-fascist constitutions, Constitutions with weak governments compared to parliaments - it is said - weak towards the regions, workers and their rights; Constitutions that provide the license to protest if unwelcome changes are proposed. We can still read that what had been believed to be an economic crisis is instead a political crisis, due to the fact that the Constitutions of the countries of the South of Europe (Spain, Italy and Greece) were born following the fall of fascist regimes on the wave of liberal and democratic enthusiasm and therefore place a political limit on the maneuvers of austerity and European integration, which is nothing more than the cession of national sovereignty. The report continues to call for this reason, with the clear intention of continuing more massively with austerity measures, the Mediterranean countries to get rid of their anti-fascist constitutions. Let us remind ourselves that J.P.'s opinion. Morgan is not the opinion of any private citizen, because this institution has almost a thousand ordinary credit banks, business banks and holding companies all over the world. In the light of all this, we ask ourselves and ask the Government how it considers these statements and whether they will affect and how they will affect the reform of our Constitutional Charter. There will be an inspection. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u71	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, it was not that difficult. It would have sufficed to remember the harsh reaction to the statements issued only six months earlier during a press conference in Aversa, in the province of Caserta, by his predecessor, Renato Balduzzi, because the neominister of health Beatrice Lorenzin, taking an excellent opportunity to remain silent, avoided not only the indignation of the committees and associations that for years have struggled for the defense of the environment in which they live (or rather, survive), but above all the umpteenth serious offense to a population that for years now sees the names of its loved ones crowd the hospital lists of cancer patients and increasingly also the obituaries of these territories. Minister Lorenzin acknowledges that there is a surge in cancer in the people living in the territories that insist along the border between the provinces of Naples and Caserta, a pity that claims that the cause depends on the lifestyles of the people. Perhaps, however, the Minister does not know that the people who live in this territory, who for reasons we do not want to remember, have been renamed "terra dei veneni" (the land of poisons), today are trying to improve that way of life, and he does so by eating the genuine products, the products of his own land. It is a land that for centuries gives this territory and the whole country absolute excellence in agri-food, such as the famous strawberries of Parete, the mozzarella of the Mazzoni, the Annurca apple of Giugliano, to say the least; it is improving the physical activity, through the increasing use of bicycles, proven by the increase of sales in this sector. Something doesn't add up. If people eat healthy and do so much sport, how come in this same territory year after year statistics continue to talk about dizzying increases in cancer diseases, fetal malformations, serious respiratory infections, and much more, that flood the lists of hospital garrisons and increasingly also the lists of obituaries? Perhaps people do not know that many of those exceptional products they consume with such pride come from some lands full of the highly toxic substances that in the years of the famous emergency garbage have traveled in a hidden way along the North-South axis, ending straight into our countryside and consequently on the tables of all Italy. But perhaps people know all this too well, and that is why they are so indignant when a Minister of the Republic, who certainly does not know these things, comes to mock them all the way home with the usual story of the lack of the causal link between pollution from waste and effects on health, whose only purpose, most likely, is to cover - I repeat, cover - at any cost a truth that, if officially recognized, would start a spiral of reparation unimaginable. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u74	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are celebrating Croatia's accession to the European Union at this time and President Napolitano has represented all Italians in Zagreb. It is a historic moment for that country, but above all it is good news for Europe as a whole. I believe that this gives us renewed enthusiasm in the Community project and tells us, in a time of Eurofatics when not of open Euroscepticism, that the founding myth of the Union has not been extinguished, the charm it still exerts on the peoples of Europe, the dream of our fathers (by Schumann, De Gasperi, Adenauer, Spinelli), that of a process that has started the most developed area of the world, whose members have known the longest period of peace and well-being in history. This event testifies - let me tell you - that the strategy of enlargement by the European Union has been of extraordinary success, able to force positively the change of strategic areas on our continent: the entry of Croatia in fact sews wounds that dig deep into European history. This event may have minimal and modest effects in Brussels, but it is a fundamental political fact in view of the final accession of the Balkan countries, which belonged to the former Yugoslavia, to the European orbit. Let me say that this historical dimension is perceived even more as an important fact for those who, like me, come from a land, that of the north-eastern Italian border, which has suffered sadly the tragedies of the twentieth century. I do not want to forget those who have had to leave their lands, but let me remind you today - I do so on behalf of the whole Senate - the Italian communities that in the north-Adriatic area finally have the opportunity, after so much suffering and, after being divided by natural borders, to find themselves protagonists in a Europe that finally gives them a new common home. [[Applause from Senators Di Biagio and Santini.]] I conclude by recalling the role of Italy, which we must express through two guidelines. The first is with regard to Croatia: we are the first trading partner and must remain with it; we must strengthen cooperation and cooperation projects through the Central European Initiative and the Adriatic-Baltic Initiative. But it is important that our country is at the forefront to complete the process of integration of all the Western Balkans. The six years of negotiations leading to Croatia's entry into the European Union have been too long. Now the new challenges are called Serbia and Montenegro, and Italy will have to be in the front row to convince Europe that only by completing this process will it be easier to bring home the extraordinary result that our generation sees, that of the United States of Europe. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u77	D'ADDA (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning in the province of Varese, in the municipality of Cardano al Campo, a very serious event took place: mayor Laura Prati and deputy mayor Costantino Iametti were the subject of a shooting. These two representatives of the institutions were wounded by a person armed with rifle, who struck them in the seat of the municipality, a symbolic place for the whole city and also at a particularly symbolic moment when the mayor receives the citizens. On behalf of all the senators and senators of the Democratic Party, in particular of the Lombard senators and senators, I want to express the dismay, solidarity and closeness, as far as it has happened, because it is not acceptable that such events can happen to administrators who are the reference point of their citizens, are the garrison of legality and order in their territory. The person who shot is a former employee, or otherwise a suspended employee, who we think (and we hope) was caught by a moment of madness, but who certainly had an arsenal in the car and could safely approach the mayor and the deputy mayor who were there and shoot as if nothing were there. I repeat, this is something that must make us think, because situations of this kind must no longer happen. At this moment mayor Laura Prati and deputy mayor Constantino Iametti are in surgery. From the news that we have from the territory, a bit 'controversial, we obviously hope that their health conditions, at the moment bad, can be resolved in some way in an optimal way and we greet them. However, I would like us all to dwell on what has happened, because an act of this kind, in a forum such as that of a city council, in front of the citizens, is the symptom that something is happening and that solidarity that must bind an entire community is failing. As much as you can think of a barbaric act of a person who may have lost the good of the intellect at a certain time, we still have to keep the tension and attention high for what is happening. I would also like to remind you that Laura Prati is a woman who has always fought for the weakest and above all for the rights of women; she was with me on Friday in an initiative about feminicide and it is symptomatic that the first woman who became mayor in Cardano al Campo has been hit. In this context I would really like the senators and senators to address these administrators, who are currently in the operating room, the most heartfelt closeness and the most heartfelt thanks for the work they carry out every day. [[Applause from the PD, SCpl and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u78	Thank you, Senator D'Adda. The Presidency and the entire Senate associate themselves with the wishes and solidarity of these administrators, as well as with the concerns expressed by you about what is happening in the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u81	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Madam President, I would like to draw the attention of this House to an important date which we remember today on the twentieth anniversary. It was July 2, 1993 and in the battle of Checkpoint Pasta in Mogadishu three of our soldiers died and 36 were wounded (including Lieutenant Colonel Gianfranco Paglia, gold medal at military valor). These soldiers died in the name of peace and democracy; on the eve of the return of our military to Somalia, this requires us to reflect on the significance of that peace mission and the very role of the missions. But today is the moment of memory: we want to remember who, at the service of the State, sacrificed his life for the respect of freedom and the protection of peace outside and within national borders. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-54.ana.u82	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.31 a.m.
