ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10:03 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 17 April 2013. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved. I suspend the sitting pending the conclusion of the work of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. (The sitting was suspended at 10.05 a.m. and resumed at 10.16 a.m.) Colleagues, let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure (at 10:17 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u4	On 22 April 2013, the President of the Republic sent the following letter: "Rome, 22 April 2013 Honourable President, I would like to inform you that today I resigned my office as President of the Republic, which I assumed on 15 May 2006. I'll give you a copy of the resignation I signed. With the senses of my highest consideration. F.to Giorgio Napolitano. Reading of the Act of Resignation: Today I resign from the office of President of the Republic, which I assumed on 15 May 2006. From the Quirinale Palace, 22 April 2013. F.to Giorgio Napolitano.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u5	On April 22, Senator Giorgio Napolitano again took office as President of the Republic. I would like to renew, on behalf of the whole House, to President Napolitano a grateful and confident wish for good work in the very high role of guarantor of the institutions and national unity. [[The Assembly stands. Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, LN-Aut, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and GAL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u6	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Colleagues, as all of you are now sadly aware, died yesterday in Rome, at the age of 88, Antonio Maccanico, an authoritative member of this Assembly in the XI and XV legislatures. His extraordinary servant of the institutions, former Secretary-General of the Chamber of Deputies and of the Presidency of the Republic, several times Minister and Parliamentary for four legislatures, will be solemnly commemorated at a forthcoming session in the presence of his family.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u7	The Senate of the Republic commemorates today the luminous figure of Teresa Mattei, who died on March 12 at the age of ninety-two. Already in my inaugural speech I had the opportunity to recall the youngest woman elected in the Constitutional Assembly, "who has been active throughout her life to assert and defend the rights of women, too often trampled on in our country". A very long life lived with a deep spirit of freedom and justice, combined with a tenacious anti-conformism and a deep-rooted determination to pursue the common good and the defense of the weakest. A life that could appear almost romantic to those who look to the example and the personal and family vicissitudes faced by Teresa in the struggle of liberation and in the years of the immediate post-war period, if those terrible events did not coincide largely with the history of the troubled path of our country towards democracy, making themselves history themselves. Teresa Mattei was born in Quarto on 1 February 1921 and grew up in Florence. In the second half of the 1930s the house of the Mattei family near Florence was frequented by prominent personalities, such as Giorgio La Pira, Natalia Ginzburg, Adriano Olivetti, Piero Calamandrei, Don Primo Mazzolari, in an atmosphere of constructive dialogue between the different political and cultural sensibilities of anti-fascism that seemed almost an anticipation of what will happen, a decade later, in the Constituent Assembly. The family circle constituted his first gymnasium of critical and unconventional thought, in particular thanks to his father Ugo, former officer of Marina and brilliant entrepreneur, who often involved his children in clandestine actions of opposition to the regime. Teresa was arrested for the first time at the age of sixteen, on her return from a trip to France, where she had been sent to deliver a sum of money - the fruit of a collection - to the Rosselli brothers. The following year she was expelled from all the schools of the Kingdom because of a heated dispute with the professor of science, charged, after the entry into force of racial laws, with propaganda to the students the racist reasons for the measures against the Jews. Conforted by the legal opinion of Piero Calamandrei, he also supported the examination of maturity as a privateist and enrolled in the faculty of philosophy of the University of Florence, where he then graduated, during the war. With the fall of fascism and the German occupation it was natural for Teresa Mattei to engage in the partisan struggle, in the formations born from the underground organization of the Communist Party, to which he had joined, together with his brother Gianfranco, already in 1942. The period of the partisan war was marked for Teresa by two very painful events: in February 1944 his brother Gianfranco killed himself in the Nazi prison of Via Tasso in Rome, in fear of revealing under torture the names of his fellow fighters; a few days later, while trying to reach Rome to give comfort to his parents, she was arrested and tortured by the German police, and managed to escape only thanks to the intervention of a fascist hierarch pitiful from his young age. At the end of the war, Teresa Mattei engaged with the Union of Italian Women (UDI), an association that gathered, among other things, women who had participated in the struggle for liberation in partisan formations of all political orientations. As a member of the UDI Steering Committee, specifically responsible for dealing with relations between the Union and the Communist Party, he took part in the decision to introduce also in Italy, on 8 March, on the French model, as a festivity for women. And it was his idea to use the mimosa, a poor flower of the countryside, as a symbol of the feast. Inside the UDI he engaged mainly in the campaign for the extension to women of the active and passive electorate. As a result of the new norms Teresa Mattei could then be nominated in the college of Florence and Pistoia, in the lists of the Communist Party, and became part of the Constitutional Assembly, together with twenty other women, being at only twenty years of age the youngest member of that prestigious assembly. His participation in the proceedings of the Assembly was passionate and significant, and at least in two points the formulation of our Constitution owes the contribution of Teresa Mattei: Article 3, on the principle of equality, and Article 37, where, with reference to women's work, the objective is to ensure that the mother and the child have adequate protection. In the following years Teresa Mattei's commitment focused mainly on the themes of education and the right of children to express themselves and communicate, using very innovative expressive tools, such as the film medium, with experiments that overturned the paradigm of broadcasts produced by adults for children, realizing - through the enthusiastic collaboration of hundreds of small authors and actors - works intended for adults but fruit of the free expression of children. In the last years of his life Teresa Mattei worked tirelessly in witnessing and civil commitment on the ground of the rights and defence of the Constitution, showing up to the earliest age the pride, determination and courage of his ideas. "I don't believe in heroism without fear," Teresa wrote, "I believe that the only heroism is to overcome fear and do the same as it was decided to do: these words are the best synthesis of its long and meaningful existence. I am sure, therefore, that I will express the consensus of the whole House in inviting all my colleagues to observe, in memory of Teresa Mattei, a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause...]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u10	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, Teresa Mattei will certainly be remembered and above all - the power of communication - as the woman who conceived mimosa as a symbol of women on the occasion of the feast of 8 March, but Teresa Mattei is honoring her kind especially for what she has done with her battles in favour of women, minors and the rights of the weakest. Her work at the Constitutional Assembly, at the age of 25, catapulted her into a world of great responsibilities. At that time we had to write down the rules of a nascent democracy and put in black and white, in the Basic Charter of the State, the indispensable rights of the person and, above all, of the woman. As you pointed out, Mr President, it was essential that you contribute to the writing of Article 3; however, the fact that in Article 37, in Title III - Economic relations, it is specifically written that the working woman has the same rights and, on equal work, the same wages as the worker ends up not being a mere corollary, but the greater significance of what is contained in Article 3. Mr President, Teresa Mattei also fought another battle; a battle: that at that time was not successful, because her amendment to Article 98 of the Constitution was not approved. However, that battle, at the time of the approval of Law No 66 of 1963, when discussed (not only, as in Article 98 of the Constitution, when you wanted to talk about it) the access of women to the judiciary, led to the introduction of a specific and precise provision on equality of women in admission to public offices. Again. His voice as a woman opened the sessions of the Constitutional Assembly as a secretary. It is a specific notation, because the minutes of the Constituent at that time do not speak of "secretary," but of "secretary," with the letter "a." In this case too, the Constitutional Assembly has something more to teach us that we continue to use masculine equally for the professions and jobs of women. You mentioned this, Mr President, and I would also like to do so: the young 25-year-old took part in the Constitutional Assembly in support of very large names for loads of experience and responsibility, such as Terracini, Togliatti, and others of the great Italian Communist Party of that time. That Togliatti who, after a few years, would have asked her to abort the son of the scandal, conceived with a man then not divorced. That son, Teresa Mattei, wanted it, wanted it, did not obey it and, with the immense strength of those who were young partisans were raped and tortured by the Nazis and who said: The vertebrae have always hurt me since then, and that son had it. Once again, however, his character was a witness and support to an important decision, because in 1955 he divorced the Italian Communist Party. The woman has always been at the heart of the action of that important former partisan, and we must be grateful to her, to her work as a constituent and to her very current words. He said: "We do not want our women to masculine, we do not want Italian women to aspire to an absurd identity with man; we simply want them to have the opportunity to expand all their strength, all their energies, all their will for good in the democratic reconstruction of our country." It seems like a battle today, and today it seems its struggle for the moralization of public life, when it turned the factories to protect the conditions of the woman. Will we remember you every March 8th? We'll always remember her every March 8th, when we put a wonderful yellow mimosa in the hands of a woman. Today we commemorate it, that is, we exalt its memory to turn it into pride of the nation. And God knows, President, how proud we are of this example of preparation, prudence, humility and conviction, today we need for a further ransom of the country. [[Applause from the GAL, PDL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u11	The students of the Military Aeronautics School (Giulio Douhet) in Florence are present in the gallery, to which the greeting of the Assembly goes. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u14	NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, without women, the Italian Resistance would not have been the one we knew. Italy is a land made of dirty hands of land; in Italy was born the sharecropper, Italy had a strong labor presence until all the sixties. Teresa, whom I had the chance to know and to have, with the president, Senator Martini, among our "collaborators" in the Tuscany Region, for two years, a few years ago, did not belong to that story. Teresa belonged to the history of a bourgeois and intellectual family that had lent itself to the Resistance and anti-fascism. But without the sum of these two categories, of the women who held the farms and of the intellectual women who lend themselves to an action of betting on their lives and courage, the Italian Resistance would not have been what it was. Teresa Mattei is one of the unfortunately very few names that remain in this story: there are very few names of women who built the history of Italy between 1942-43 and 1945 and that we remember with a name, a surname and a personal story written next to that name and that surname. Theresa, as you mentioned, Mr President, had the life immediately marked between her adolescence and her youth. I recommend to remember the date of birth of many women, indeed girls, who made the Resistance at that time: they are, more or less, all born between 1920 and 1925-26, girls (and boys) who were just over twenty years old. Bube's girl, whom Cassola reminds us, was 16 years old: a beautiful lady who died, and that Tuscany lost, only a few months ago. Bube was 18 years old; Teresa begins this story just over twenty years old; Oriana Fallaci was 14, a partisan relay in the same city where Teresa does her work for the Florentine and Tuscan Resistance; Maria Luigia Guaita, who was the oldest of these, shareholder, was 21 years old. Different stories, all linked by an extraordinary desire and longing for freedom: a search for a value and a feeling that they did not know. In Italy of the twenty-year period one could not even read London's White Zone, because the longing and the search for adventure had a subversive meaning for the regime. Teresa looks for something she doesn't know, and for that thing she loses her brother in prison in Rome (arrested and committed suicide in the prisons of Via Tasso for a known story), and, very young, participates in an event that is still in her way in the history books because declared unsolved: what belongs to the history of the murder of Giovanni Gentile. Teresa belongs to a story written and partly unwritten, deliberately unknown, made of courageous choices in a time completely different from this. Difficult choices, strong choices, decidedly clear choices that you have maintained - as you have been reminded - during your life in two ways: on the one hand, breaking with the history that you had loved most (the one of your party); on the other, dedicating your future history, until death, to the disinherited or to those who were in the condition of need, those that you considered to be the weak links in the civil and social history of Italy, women and, in the last part of your life, children. She did it in a dodge way, without needing to be remembered. She lived and died in a country country, but not in the village capital of that country. She died in a country cottage where it was almost impossible to get because the road - a lane - was full of tall grass (the mayor had it cut to reach it). I remember her with a hair of white hair, always ordered, and with a smile that I never understood if it was mocking or ironic. I think it is right, Mr President, to dedicate to Teresa, as the youngest parliamentary secretary of the Bureau of the Constitutional Assembly, the Chamber of Parliamentary Acts. I understand that it does not yet have a name: Teresa's name could be worthy of this House. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI, PD, M5S and Mixed-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u17	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, first of all, allow me to address a warm greeting to Teresa Mattei's family. Today we live in a time when words are constantly being debased. In this remembrance of Teresa Mattei I would like to start from a word: "Shameful." With this epithet Teresa Mattei refused to attend the racist lessons, as President Grasso recalled in his commemoration of one of his professors, a professor of science; one of the many who, abjuring and erasing from the vocabulary the words justice and culture, had become trusty fascists also in the exaltation of racism. And Teresa Mattei, at the age of seventeen, stood up saying: "I'm going out because I can't see these shames." A really incredible courage, and it paid for the consequences. In 1942, he enrolled in the Communist Party underground and was very active, as was recalled by those who preceded me, in the Resistance. Over the years, she often recalled the women of the Resistance: "Women" she said "are always concrete, they have a horizontal mentality and even in those serious circumstances they pulled up their sleeves and did what they had to do." "Chicchi" - it was his name as a partisan relay - said: "I made the relay, I carried the weapons, all those things that were dangerous for men, while the women passed more unnoticed". He suffered atrocious sexual violence, an atrocious secret that he modestly confessed only fifty years later, but said: "Young people must know these things, even the most loved ones, to understand how much suffering we have suffered from Fascism and also what were the dramatic retaliations that partisan women had to suffer. Teresa Mattei was in the forefront of many initiatives of the Tuscan Committee of National Liberation for the liberation of Florence. He contributed, between 1944 and 1945, to organize some of the great strikes in Florence and Empoli. On March 3, 20,000 workers went down to the square, which also sabotaged the tram lines. For that retaliation four hundred workers were deported, mostly killed in Ebensee, underfield of Mauthausen. In 1945, she attended the first meeting of the Union of Italian Women in Florence, where she was noticed by Togliatti, who wanted her in Rome. In March 1946 - as has been recalled - she indicated to Luigi Longo the mimosa as a symbol for March 8: I chose it because it was a poor flower, which was everywhere in the spring and didn't have to buy it. And when she entered, on June 2, in the Constituent Assembly as a younger Member, she told us: In the Constitution there was a fundamental understanding among the few women of various political groups. We were looking with sympathy but also with a certain distrust by politicians men and constituents. We were anxiously trying to bring forward a speech on the specificity of women, but we did not have the sharp weapons that feminism then prepared. After the Constitution - as has been mentioned - in Parliament he did not return, because he was pregnant, and that pregnancy - writes the historian Simonetta Soldani - was considered by Togliatti alternative to the possibility of continuing the constituent experience with a parliamentary mandate. Its most important and most significant contribution to the Constitution was the addition of the two simple words to Article 3, "de facto," which made the objective of removing the economic and social obstacles which, by limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person: an important difference between a simple affirmation of high principles and the commitment of politics to take responsibility for the lives of citizens. A good policy was that of Teresa Mattei, even when she left the institutions, although she was one of the most important figures of the Constitutional Assembly. When he broke up with the PCI, he did it in defence of human rights against Beria's crimes, to defend freedom, and he said: After my break with the PCI, I realized that the only policy to do was to engage in building a children's society. Since then, she has been very committed to the education of the new generations. He's in charge of the UDI. He founded the Committee for the Moral Protection of the Child. He teaches new languages to children, starting from the cinematic one; a commitment that continues also in his small village of Lari, in the province of Pisa, where he continues his education, training and politics incessantly. He created new methods. The last was a radio dedicated to children to continue to defend the values of peace. He proposed the Nobel Peace Prize for the children of Sarajevo and launched the initiative of the "Tree of Peace," taken from the proposal of a child from a school in Prato. One of your questions, in the Constitutional Assembly, concerned an "appropriate and stable funding of scientific research, necessary not only for cultural and spiritual progress, but also for national economic reconstruction and development"; this subject is very topical, considering the investments that our governments have made in recent years to lack scientific research and public school. Some of us elected to Parliament today met Teresa Mattei in the streets of Genoa in 2001, with her son Rocco, at the demonstrations during the days of the G8. She, too, forcefully denounced the abuse of police forces and was particularly indignant about the assault on Diaz school. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]] He said: "I called Ciampi and I will continue to do so. A President, who, like me, opposed the Nazi-fascist dictatorship, cannot admit and accept this. The most important thing about our life - Teresa Mattei reminded us - is to have chosen our part. I conclude by quoting his words on the Constitution: The Constitution must be defended with nails and teeth. If the principles of equality and equality enshrined in the Constitution had been applied, perhaps today it would be women who govern this country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u20	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Mr President, my fellow senators, Teresa Mattei, born in Genoa in 1921, graduated in philosophy, carried out her political commitment first as a partisan and then in the Constituent Assembly. Among the only 21 women, out of 556 members, she was the youngest of the elect. Last living woman among the participants in the Constitutional Assembly, national leader of the Union of Italian women, disappeared on 12 March, just a few days after the feast of the woman, celebration strongly desired by her and in memory of which she chose the mimosa as a symbol. Teresa Mattei, always committed to defending the rights of children and women, founded the League for the rights of children to communication to promote campaigns for peace and non-violence. Surely, the suffering suffered during the years of the war, the loss of a brother engaged in the partisan war, who took his life in the prisons of Via Tasso, the desire to engage against the oppression of Nazifascism have led Mattei to dramatic choices, such as that of involvement in the attack on Giovanni Gentile. She knew him from the time of the university and so she told herself the events: To ensure that the Gappists, in charge of the ambush, could recognize him, a few days before I accompanied them to the Accademia d'Italia della RSI, which he directed. As he went out, I pointed him out to the partisans, then he saw me and greeted me. Of course, the war and the oppression of dictatorship have hardened even intelligent women like Teresa, they have conditioned her behavior, but for intellectual honesty we must remember all aspects of the human events of an individual, even those that many would like to forget, without neglecting the historical moment, in which the active participation of women in the institutions was still strongly foreclosed, but to which she and other twenty women knew with force to give voice. That's why we remember her today. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PdL, SCpI and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u23	ICHINO (SPI). Mr President, Teresa Mattei is in many respects an extraordinary figure in the history of our Republic. It represents the democratic and progressive soul, but at the same time it represents a contradiction, on which more than ever it is necessary to reflect. Of our Republic Teresa Mattei represents first of all, in an exemplary way, the deep libertarian and egalitarian roots. In 1938 he was expelled from all the schools of the Kingdom - as was mentioned this morning - for his refusal to participate in the lessons on the defense of the race; but then, in 1955, he was also expelled by the Communist Party, to which he was enrolled for thirteen years, for his refusal of Stalinism, which still largely permeated the leadership of that party. But Teresa Mattei's name is also linked to the civil war, from which, in the 1940s, our Republic was born. In particular, two tragic episodes of the resistance: the suicide of his brother Gianfranco in a cell in Via Tasso, in order to escape the torture of the Nazi fascists (those tortures that Teresa herself had to suffer), and the killing of Giovanni Gentile, her professor at the University of Florence, on the gate of the house. Teresa actively contributed to the success of that ambush, which probably harmed the birth of the Republic more than it helped. Other experiences in the world - from South Africa, the Iberian Peninsula, to South America - show that even the most ferocious regimes can be freed without the need to use ferocity. And I venture to assume that the new democratic Italy would have benefited much more than they give from continuing to include among its citizens a philosopher of the stature of John Gentile, even though he is a veteran of the Republic of Salò. I remember these two opposing episodes of death, which strongly marked the life of Teresa Mattei, because both represent - certainly in a very different way in the genesis, but not different in the outcome - a civil war that in our country has never definitively ceased, a hatred that has continued to hatch under the ashes, generating destructive flames, a hatred in the name of which, wretchedly, has shed blood until a few years ago. If we want to get rid of it, we must recognize that, to some extent, that hatred still poisons our political life today. Two days ago Giorgio Napolitano reminded us once again in his lucid and severe speech of settlement following the re-election of Head of State. In a recent appeal to the young Teresa Mattei, mother of four children and great paladin as well as gender equality, said: "You are our hope, our future (...) Try to do what we have not been able to do. Here in the Senate we are not really among the youngest, but this appeal is addressed to us too. The last constituent woman passes us the witness of the construction of a truly free and just country, but the very history of her life tells us that freedom and justice can never be built on the great ideological simplifications that generate hatred between factions, on the delegitimization and political-civil damnation of the opponent. If we are together here in Parliament, it is not to continue civil war between us by other means, but to try every day to grasp the truth that is to some extent always expressed in the words and acts of the opposing party. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u26	DE PIN (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say a warm greeting to the members of Teresa Mattei's family. Teresa Mattei's biography is that of a woman who, in a world marked by dramatic contrasts, was always guided by a great uprightness and love for her neighbor. Teresa Mattei first played an active role in antifascism by expressing her public opposition to the ignoble racial laws, which still dishonor our homeland. After having participated in the Resistance she was elected, very young, deputy in the Constituent Assembly. Abandoned in the middle of the years Fifty active politics continued to give their commitment in the social and educational sphere, faithful to the constitutional principle that it is the task of the Republic to remove the social and economic obstacles that prevent the full development of the human person and the participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the country. Teresa Mattei was always in solidarity with the humble and helpless. In particular, as an intellectual and educator, he worked to protect the rights of women, children and the disabled. Dear Senators, the commemoration of Teresa Mattei is not only a tribute due to a great and noble woman: she must ask each one of us. Machiavelli said that the only way to renew a collective organization is to bring it back to its principles. In a moment of dramatic crisis, like the current one, we parliamentarians will be able to make a contribution to the rebirth of the country only if we can revive the same concern for the common good that animated our constituent Fathers and that above all animated Teresa Mattei. [[Applause from the M5S, SCPI and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u29	Mr Mazzoni (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, we commemorate Teresa Mattei on the eve of the Liberation Day and this is the occasion - I believe - to reiterate an indisputable fact, namely that Teresa took the right side, on the side of freedom, while others chose the wrong side. No revisionism can erase this historical truth. With Teresa Mattei therefore left an important piece of Italian history, not only because she was the youngest elected to the Constitutional Assembly (they called her, in fact, the girl of Montecitorio) and the last still alive, but because her personal history became the very symbol of a tragic era in which the Italian people knew how to find, thanks also to the courage of women like her, the path of dignity and freedom. Teresa Mattei actively participated, like the young partisan relay Oriana Fallaci, in the struggle for liberation in the partisan formations operating on the hills of Florence, so much so that to her and her fighting group he inspired Roberto Rossellini for the film "Paisà". He was without any doubt - as President Napolitano recalled - a rebellious and unconformist woman. At the age of 17, she was expelled from the classical high school "Michelangelo" in Florence and disbarred from all the institutions of the Kingdom, because after listening to the intervention of a professor sent to the schools to make racist propaganda, she stood up and said: "I go out because I cannot see these shames"; just as sixteen years later she was kicked out of the Italian Communist Party because she was opposed to the Togliatto line and the crimes of Stalinism. The relationship with Togliatti had spoiled already in '48 because Teresa was expecting a son, but her partner was married, and, at the end of the '40s, even for the PCI, it was a scandal that a representative symbol like Teresa Mattei became a mother girl. She held the child stubbornly, but unsuccessfully tried to convince the party that mothers also had the right to be represented in Parliament. In the terrible years of the war both she and her brother Gianfranco had been captured and tortured by the Germans. The suicide of him in Via Tasso prison in Rome, because he was afraid of being led by torture to betray his comrades, led him to participate actively in the killing of the philosopher Giovanni Gentile, lived then as a just vengeance. And it was you who pointed this out to your murderers in front of the Academy of Italy of the Social Republic. His, in that case, was a ruthless sentence: if a great thinker side with a horrible regime like the Republic of Salò assumes a huge responsibility, it is a betrayal that cannot be forgiven. But Gentile's was a barbaric and useless murder, disapproved by the Tuscan CLN itself, and remains as the only shadow on life generously spent on the freedom and rights of the weak, women and children. It is no coincidence that the final version of Article 3 of the Constitution on equality significantly bears the signature of Teresa Mattei. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u32	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I extend a warm and cordial greeting to Teresa Mattei's family at the sitting today. The friends of this branch of Parliament have already expressed a great deal about Teresa Mattei, so I want to highlight significantly other aspects that concern, in particular, her work as a Constituent, as well as as as a democratic person, who, in two years (1946-48) succeeded with her extraordinary work in making possible a Constitution that still envys us all today, and that in part was then further modified as she had strongly wanted, in those years, still difficult and raw, to the extent that the importance of a perfect equality between men and women in the social, cultural and political life of this country had not been grasped. (11 o'clock) (Follow PUPPATO). How to describe Teresa in a few minutes? Dodge - it has been said - solid convictions, courage, high sensitivity, grace and curiosity all feminine. Teresa's life I think can be remembered as a life against censorship, a life spent on giving, sustaining and living freedom. It is no coincidence that his life begins with acts of courage like those known and recognized here. 'I am going out' - Mrs Petraglia rightly recalled earlier - 'because I cannot see these shames'. She was only 17 years old, but she was already convinced that each of us had to choose sides, and she knew that she could not choose but be on the side of democracy and freedom. Little more than twenty years old has paid very hard for this choice with reasons that have to do with the death of dear brother, but also paying in person, as he has always done throughout his life, difficult choices, countercurrent, against conservation, but for this reason more worthy and more responsible and able to tell us today - and I join in the call of my colleague Nencini - that this Parliament has the right to remember it by dedicating it to the Chamber of Parliament. Its - as we have said - the battle on Article 3 of the Constitution, which would not have so effectively affirmed the equality of citizens without its fact to complement that sentence which reads: It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. Well, there is all its concreteness, the will for a consistency pushed to the end, understanding that politics is the implementation of freedom, it goes to protection, to guarantee, it is the lighthouse of this in the country; it is the coherence between a written principle and the actual realized. Its battles to include in Article 37 the protection of the work of children and then, in the same Article 37 and subsequent Article 51, to ensure that the mother and the child have adequate protection and the theme of work as a way for civil and social progress. A step that men and women not only can but must take together, combining the two looks and the two visions at all times. His is also an unknown battle related to Article 1. You said that the Republic is certainly based on work, but you thought it was limited to the work: it had to be based on justice and freedom, in this order (repeat, in this order). In fact, he said, recovering a concept that is dear to one of my fellow countrymen, Guido Bergamo, in the Mazzinian spirit that justice is a mother not the daughter of freedom; there is no freedom in any country of the world where there is no true justice equal for everyone and for every citizen. A more just and humane society: this was the meaning of his life and work. He was unable to include (as my colleagues mentioned earlier) the free access of women to the judiciary in Article 98. I want to read a page of your story, about the debate in the Chamber, when a Liberal MEP said to you: "Miss" (She called it so: not colleague, not congresswoman, she said "Miss," putting her hand on her head, as men often do with women and children), "She doesn't know that in certain days of the month women do not reason?" And she, in a strong and determined way, though so young, answered (there is all of her in this answer): Do you know that there are men who never reason all month long? [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, SCpI and LN-Aut groups.]] The debate with Mr Togliatti, in Article 7, is renowned for its consistency, which is so difficult to find in the Houses of this Parliament; she said: We guaranteed on the Lateran Pacts that we would not vote, but he said: There is a synthesis that is difficult to find. And it was on that occasion that you voted, but it fell short of the obligations imposed, giving up reappearance to the subsequent elections. In short, independence, courage, ability to be, and then his life from the sixties onwards: how not to remember that even that time, and for a long time, he totally devoted himself to childhood with innovative, experimental, pedagogically very advanced methods, today declared in fact new forms of Italian pedagogy. I want to complete this reasoning briefly with the memory of how he chose the mimosa, together with the ideas that were of Rita Montagnana and Teresa Noce: mimosa as a flower of women, inventing a Chinese legend to prevent the choice of violet, and affirming that mimosa means soavità, modesty, collectività for the many flowers united with cluster Finally the last sentence, let me say it, is his: "The tombstones," Teresa says are important, the monuments are important, but the greatest monument, the greatest, the most extraordinary that was built in Italy on freedom and justice, resistance, anti-fascistism, pacifism, is our Constitution. It is up to us all, colleagues, to realize and carry it out and also to remember how this constituent mother who wrote it was in the example and in the daily work that she then tried to achieve it. That is why his life and memory are even more valid today. His spirit is with us. Thank you all. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, SCpI and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u33	I want to thank all the senators and senators who have spoken. This concludes the commemoration of Teresa Mattei. I would also like to greet your family, whom I thank for being here. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u34	The next item is the debate on document II, No 5. I remind everyone that for the final vote on the approval of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 64, first paragraph, of the Constitution and Rule 167 (5) of the Rules of Procedure require the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the Senate. The report on the text proposed by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would very briefly like to take into account some important points made during the meetings of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure which were held to examine the text and the amendments to the proposal for a regulatory amendment to our examination. First of all, as is right to do, I would like to reiterate the clarifying importance of the only change in substance made by the Junta to the text of the proposal contained in document II, No 5. At the converging request of some members of the Junta itself it was considered to escape any misunderstanding about the concept, to the truth of some ambiguity, of the beginning of the legislature. It has therefore been established that the transitory wealthy rule - neologism perhaps a little exaggerated, but I have not been able to find another - to obtain the election of an additional secretary was valid only for the groups set up when the transitional provision came into force. It is clear, therefore, that the aim is to prevent the possible creation of new parliamentary groups from giving way to new and possible claims. When I mention this punctual, but not least, modification, which I agree with, of course, I have the opportunity to reflect on the wider meaning which generally takes on the composition of the Presidency Council in our regulatory system. Since the first sitting, there has been a broad consensus among the Members of the Council that, in addition to the preparation of a transitional rule to deal with the contingent situation created since the beginning of the parliamentary term, there is a need to begin a thorough reflection on the effects of the changes to Article 5, in accordance with the regime, especially in the light of the preparation of regulatory measures against the fragmentation of parliamentary groups. This is a crucial issue. In fact, it is a question here of opening a much wider page of speeches on our Rules of Procedure. I very much thank President Grasso and the Presidency Council, who intended to speak on this issue as the first act of this parliamentary term. President Grasso, as is well known, has decided to appoint two rapporteurs - in addition to me, Senator Quagliariello - to carry out a thorough investigation of the new regulations that are now appaling as indisputable to ensure the good performance of the work in this branch of Parliament. I hope that we can work soon and well, because the reform of the Rules of Procedure of our Senate is an important element of innovation in a much broader framework of institutional reforms that the country needs very much. This is not the place to extend myself to the list of interventions that can be prepared to carry out a maintenance of the legislative instrument (ensuring the prerogatives of oppositions, revitalizing the institution of participation in the work of the Senate bodies, innovating the rules of the planning of the work and the role of the Government in Parliament) but, if I may, the thing that I think most important, perhaps the most important, is to establish a faster connection of communication between the citizens and Parliament, in this case the Senate, first of all therefore the attention to the laws of popular initiative. I would just like to point out that the reform of Article 5 is a good thing within this somewhat broader horizon. It therefore enters into the framework of interventions aimed not only at preserving parliamentary representation from the proliferation of Groups, which determines their fragmentation and atomisation. In fact, the revision of Article 5 will also have to take into account the necessary correspondence between the Groups and the electoral competitors. This is the heart of the matter, which must be introduced with a forthcoming amendment to Rules 14 and 15 of the Rules of Procedure, leaving little room for the creation of parliamentary comrades who do not coincide with the lists and coalitions that took part in the electoral competition. We need to have a very clear and clear relationship between those who appear to voters and those who form groups here. On the other hand, the enhancement of the principle of correspondence can constitute the prelude and at the same time the logical consequence of the amendment of electoral legislation, because it constitutes its corollary, ensuring the stability of the effects in the political representation of the translation of votes into seats. It is precisely in the light of these far-reaching and medium-term considerations that the G1 agenda (text 2) presented by Senators Crimes and others, and then made by the entire Committee for the Rules of Procedure, must be taken into account. This is an act of direction with which the House would take note of the desire to take structural action on Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure, which complements the effects of the transitional rules that we are called upon to examine today. This is a crucial point because, at a time when I propose to intervene with transitional measures, we give the framework for a structural initiative through the agenda; and the fact that that agenda was signed unanimously by all the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is much more than an address: it constitutes a concrete commitment of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and therefore also of this House. I think that the final moment has come for transitional arrangements. I hope that this House today, by voting on this transitional provision, will be aware that we will never vote on it again, because the things that need to be changed in Italy are many but the most important are the transitional provisions that then become permanent: all too often, unfortunately, the transitory in Italy becomes permanent, and this also makes the extraordinary nature of the transitoryness loses its character. Hence the preparation of a text - which Members will be able to read and which is distributed - on which, as I have already said, there is a unanimous opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. On the principles underlying the amendments 1.1 (correct text) and 1.0.1 I am in favour of this: this is a rule that sets out the invariance of the total expenditure for the exceptional enlargement of the Presidency Council, determined by the transitional provision for our examination. While respecting the Council's own self-regulation powers, the amendment points to a proportional reduction in the resources allocated to all components in order to increase their representativeness without increasing their operating costs. To be, that is, clearer - because sometimes it is not enough with the formulas that are written - it is quite clear that the transitional provision, for the precise commitment of the Council for the Rules of Procedure in relation to the Presidency Council and the President of the Senate, will not entail any additional burden of expenditure for the Senate Presidency Council. This was a crucial point on which the Committee on the Rules of Procedure was very much concerned. In order to be even clearer, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure wanted to stress a principle of representativeness which is absolutely inescapable in an Assembly, as is a Parliamentary Assembly, and that principle of representativeness must not, however, entail additional costs for citizens. What matters is precisely the principle of political representativeness; it does not count the structures that are set up. And on this the Junta has operated unanimously, being able to count on the original and positive contribution of all the members. For this reason, since there are two amendments on the table, one of which is signed by me, it is quite clear that, as I am the presenter, I tend to consider it to be better. It is not a particularly bad act: a person is usually inclined to value what he does. In this context, however, I also believe that the amendment I tabled also incorporates the principles underlying amendment 1.0.1. So I would ask my fellow Members who have signed this amendment to evaluate in the course of this debate precisely what I am saying now in this House, namely - I repeat - that the amendment I have tabled contains a great deal of the principles which inspired their proposal and places those principles within the current course of the Presidency Council of this House. It seems to me that I have said very clearly what are the issues on the agenda today. Allow me, in conclusion, to thank all the members of the Council for the Rules of Procedure who have worked with commitment, with passion, with positive spirit and have allowed us to face a passage usually delicate and often also full of controversy (just because there is the weight of the transitoryity that risks becoming ordinary) as a passage addressed not only in a non-traditional way but with the spirit, the commitment, the horizon of those who are faced with a passage that demands a non-ordinality and, however, announces an absolute ordinaryity. Sometimes absolute ordinaryity, in order to become true, needs to pass from a nonordinality. The commitment that I have made and which I take again before this House on behalf of the entire Committee on the Rules of Procedure is that this is the last time that this happens. I say this out of respect for all of us and out of respect for those who are listening to us right now and who are outside this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u36	On behalf of the Senate, I greet the students of the Technical Institute for Economics, Graphics and Communication (Gilbert Julius Durst) in Bressanone, in the province of Bolzano. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u37	I declare the debate open. Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u38	Madam President, we have learned from the establishment of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that Rule 5, which regulates the composition of the Presidency Council, is the rule that has undergone, and by far, the greatest number of changes since 1971. We wonder whether, apart from the reasonable and acceptable principle that it is appropriate for the parliamentary body in question to be concerned about ensuring the representativeness of the parliamentary groups present in this House, the so-called right of stand, this fact does not, in fact, represent, or above all, the need for a divisional approach by political groups gradually present during the time in the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As is well known, from the original determination of the number of Secretaries to the extent of eight, successive amending interventions of the norm have extended the possibility, to current text, to reach the number of ten. Today we are debating a transitional rule which, for this legislature, raises the total number of Secretaries to 11, nominally to ensure that all three parliamentary groups today remain without a representative in the Presidency Council, against only two seats available as per the current Rules, see guaranteed their presence in the collegiate body. Certainly, while welcoming the intention expressed in Junta and presented today by the illustrious rapporteur to maintain the overall expenditure of the Senate for the functioning of the Presidency Council, by ensuring that the cost of the further, eleventh, Secretary is, as it were, spread over the already anticipated costs (the reason for which the 5 Star Movement abstained from voting on the proposed amendment in the previous junta for the Rules of Procedure), we believe that, in this case, the balance between the representative needs of the parliamentary groups and the logic of containment of expenditure and aversion to the proliferation of positions should prevail the prudential aversion to the proposed transitional discipline, all the more considering the singular circumstances in which one of the three groups in question (GAL) has been established almost a week after the first session of the inauguration of this Assembly, with a further increase of costs borne by the Senate and, ultimately, by the citizens, for several hundred thousand euros a year. For this reason, we believe that the proposed amendment by the 5 Star Movement, which prefers, in the transitional discipline, the criterion of chronological precedence of the constitution of the parliamentary groups as a rule for the completion of the Presidency Council, while maintaining the maximum ceiling of the secretaries to ten, is preferable. It is also because if we wanted to focus on the criterion of representativeness of the political groups in the Presidency Council, it would be regrettable that this principle, however, is displeasing in the case of the Group of which I am a member which sees, in the face of 53 senators, only one member of the Presidency Council. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , with obvious disproportion in default with respect to the other political forces present in this House. Therefore, the transitional provision proposed by the rapporteur, although qualified as exceptional and valid only for this parliamentary term, does not present only a problem of costs, as we have already explained in the Junta. The issue of costs is prevalent, and we appreciate the good will of the Junta and other political forces in trying to find a solution that can at least be acceptable to the extent that it does not result in further increases in expenditure on the Senate, but we have had to stress, and here we reiterate, that our concern, recalling what the rapporteur has already mentioned, is a practice well known to all: very often, in fact, the exceptional and transitional provisions end up becoming stable and permanent. Our concern, therefore, is that the reference to exceptionality is still a precedent to which we do not doubt, mainly with regard to the institution of parliamentary practice, the future regulatory legislators would not fail to refer in pursuit of the contingency that, from time to time, inevitably can be created. The reason why in our proposal the transitional discipline limited the total number of Secretaries to ten and not already to 11, therefore, was not only the containment of costs but also the need not to create a further precedent that tomorrow, in a renewed situation of exceptionality, could again increase, perhaps pletorically, the number of members of the college. We have submitted to the rapporteur and to the other political forces the G1 agenda (text 2), which has been accepted, with reference to an organic proposal to go to the regime, overcoming the transitory nature. We have considered, very quietly but with determination, that we have made a proposal for reform that I believe is truly reasonable and very acceptable, the one that provides that the number of Secretary Senators is eight and not more than eight, and that the demands of representativeness, most respectable, by the parliamentary groups are, let's say, channeled simply according to the ratio of Article 5 by providing, in a first session, the vote for the election of Vice Presidents and Senators Quaestors and, at a later session, that for the election of Secretary Senators. We believe that it would be sufficient to keep the total number of eight Secretary Senators firm, ensuring that during the second session the Secretary Senators can be elected only from political groups that are already formed at the beginning of the legislature and representatives of those political forces not already represented by Vice Presidents and Senators Quaestors. This forecast, made by all the groups, would suffice as a commitment to the reform of Article 5 as a regime, hoping that this will happen in the future. Having said that, we believe that we have done our part, we appreciate the efforts of the other political forces, but we reiterate that perhaps more could have been done. At least at the level of transitional discipline, we believe that we could accept our request to limit the maximum number of Secretary Senators to ten already in this legislature, not allowing the appointment of a further Senator Secretary, albeit without further expense. I would therefore like to refer to the content of the agenda G1.1, in the hope that the intentions put forward by colleagues from other political forces will be maintained with regard to regime discipline. [[Applause from the M5S and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u39	The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the G1 agenda, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur to give his views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u40	Madam President, as regards the G1 agenda (text 2), which has as its first signatory Senator Crimi but which is made by the whole of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I have already said that the crucial points are the one concerning the fixed number for the Secretary Senators and that of intervening with anti-fragmentation rules, to make it clear that the groups that are formed in this House are those corresponding to the political forces that came to the elections. On this basis, the rapporteur's opinion is in favour of the G1 agenda (text 2), because it has been incorporated into the Rules of Procedure. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to know whether Amendment 1.0.1 is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u41	Senator Buccarella, is Amendment 1.0.1 withdrawn? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, Madam President, Amendment 1.0.1 is withdrawn. MINNITI, rapporteur. The opinion on amendment 1.1 (correct text) is in favour, being the rapporteur's opinion. I would also like to say that the adoption of this rule clearly undermines the requirements underlying the presentation of the G1.1 agenda, because the regulatory intervention that provides for the invariance of costs is more effective than an agenda that calls for such an invariance of costs.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u44	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I would ask that the agenda be put to the vote, because it seems to us to be a further step forward, a useful direction for stable amendments to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u47	MINNITI, rapporteur. Madam President, it is quite clear that the agenda is put to the vote in this House with my favourable opinion, so there is no problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u50	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Madam President, I do not want us to be in a misunderstanding, in the sense that there are two agendas before us. The first is the G1 (text 2), which is the agenda for immediate regulatory reform setting out the number of Senators who are members of the Presidency Council in order to meet the need, in the context of the containment of expenditure, to comply with the principle of representativeness and also to meet the need for the inclusion in the Rules of Procedure of a criterion of non-fragmentation of the Groups, establishing the principle of correspondence between parliamentary groups and lists which have appeared at the elections. This is the agenda to which I too have signed and which has been unanimously approved by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. There is also another agenda, the G1.1, which would however be precluded by the adoption of amendment 1.1 (correct text), of which Senator Buccarella is the first signatory, which provides that the costs arising from the application of Article 1 of the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure, as amended, will be met by a corresponding reduction in expenditure relating to the overall functioning of the Presidency Council. I'm saying this because Senator Crimes' statement is probably based on a misunderstanding. The agenda for G1.1 (text 2) has been so much shared by the entire Junta that it takes on prescriptive effect as a rule of regulation: the rapporteur's amendment 1.1 (correct text) therefore, rather than merely on the agenda, in invitation or in hope, translates the principle that the increase in the size of the Bureau by increasing the number of Secretarial Senators should be dealt with without further burdens. So perhaps it was useful to clarify this point, because I feared that otherwise the discussion would continue on the basis of a misunderstanding that does not exist between us.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u51	I put to the vote the agenda G1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. It's approved. I would point out that the agenda was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u54	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Minniti, for having been able to draw the profile of the issue we are dealing with very clearly. However, our conclusions differ from yours: in fact, our vote will be against the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure. We are pleased, however, that the proposal made by Senator Calderoli was accepted not to use an agenda, but to be binding with an amendment to the (well explained) part concerning the ancillary costs that will not be. It was right to move to an absolutely imperative form compared to what already appears to us a general forcing. I am now going to explain why we come to a negative conclusion. First of all, Mr Minniti, we would have preferred this type of verification to be a real maintenance, that is, something that could be referred to and related to that work after the preparatory phase which activated the Presidency Council, and therefore within the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, with my colleagues Minniti and Quagliariello who have to check and review - as it is right that it is and it is time for it to be done - the whole of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. In our opinion, therefore, a first negative aspect is precisely the fact that this form of regulatory interpretation, through an extension that we do not consider appropriate, has been reasoned in a different form than what should take place within a much more organic intervention on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. I would like to add that we can and must give priority to the maintenance work of the Rules of Procedure. We believe that Article 5 is one of those elements within the Rules of Procedure which must be verified immediately, but certainly not through an intervention like what we are doing today. There are various proposals, and they have already been discussed on other occasions. I think that we can and will have to intervene - for example - on the form of preference for the first votes of the Secretary Senators, in such a way that otherwise the College of Secretary Senators and therefore, as a whole, the Presidency Council will be composed. These are the first two steps. But our dissension position is wider, and it is because of a philosophical approach to the Rules of Procedure. We think that it must, precisely because of its nature, have the two characteristics of rigor and abhorrence. I would like to remove any possible shadow that we do not have any form of prejudice against the groups present, either of an old or of a new institution. It is simply a matter of saying that the Rules of Procedure, being a form of regulation of this House, must have an approach in its totally abstract formation and, in this case, it is clear that it does not. On the contrary, we should remove all the superstructure of the Rules of Procedure made by the practice that often makes it not an obstacle, but still difficult to interpret in our work. Therefore, the fact that the Rules of Procedure must be rigorous means that it should always be less interpretable and therefore extremely clear. Well, to this principle, which I believe is necessary, of rigour and abstraction, we respond with transitoryness and contingency, i.e. with the exact opposite of what should be a regulatory form. But this is even more exceptional, ladies and gentlemen, and President. Already the exceptionality in our Rules of Procedure is the addition of the two Secretary Senators, who were already foreseen. It is so exceptional that, in order to add the two Secretary Senators, the Presidency Council must give its explicit approval. Therefore, we expect an exceptionality about what was already exceptional, namely the approval by the Presidency Council of the two additional Secretary Senators who should have been present. Let us then do something even more complex, complicated and - in my opinion - ambiguous. We photograph the contingency and we do it in a strange way, because we do not even have the ability, the desire and the strength - put what you want - to decide when and how the recognition of the Groups should have been done. This stems from the fact that, in order to overcome any problem of decision-making, we say that this transitional rule within the Rules of Procedure has entered into force since the adoption of what we are voting on today. Mr President, Mr Minniti, if I had read the proposal, this morning I had invented a parliamentary group with ten colleagues, how would we have solved the problem that the Groups should be represented for the approval of this proposal, but the Secretaries cannot be more than three? I ask a question which is obviously academic and provocative, but which shows how fallacious we are voting on. But even more so. I listened to Mr Minniti, a man of great experience but also of refined interpretation. We have determined, with a strong agenda, that the composition of the groups should also be linked to an electoral history; but if tomorrow there were a new substantial and numerically strong parliamentary group, if for example 50 senators decided to compose a new parliamentary group, how would we decide the necessary idea of a forum right, even more so for this group of 50 Members, with the adoption of a rule, not due to a strong interpretation of the moment, as it should be, but linked to a much wider maintenance of the Rules of Procedure? I raise these problems, partly because I am trying to make sense - not a justification - of our vote against. It would be a bit like deciding that a football match, if you find yourself one day in the situation where the teams that get on the field have two players who can not leave on the bench, you can play with formations of 12 and not 11 players, establishing that this is only true for that day and that the other teams will not be able to do the same. I believe that there is also a further fact, which also becomes topical, my colleague Senator Minniti, and equally contingent (I have other remarks to make, but I do not want to bore my fellow Senators). At a time when the President of the Republic is probably entrusting a mandate to form a Government and therefore at a time when there is probably a chance in a few days to define what the majorities and oppositions will be, how can we say that with this solution the internal balances of the Presidency Council - as in theory should happen - should be maintained by simply saying that at this moment we adopt a bridge solution that concerns only the three that belong to the Groups that are there but that we do not know what position they will have in the probable planning of government? This should make everyone think that this is not a useful step in our examination. Perhaps it would have been more useful to elect the two Secretary Senators and then reason on the change, or make an overall change and freeze any further representatives of the Groups in the Presidency Council. I would like to conclude my speech, hoping that we have made it clear in proposing our exceptions. One thing is certain: we are not doing a good service to the Senate, we are not demonstrating that we know how to choose and decide. We think that this is a bad precedent: transitoryness and exceptionality cannot be present in the parliamentary regulations, also because, Senator Minniti, your concern has unfortunately been explicit, but when you have certain concerns you should not do things. The Group of the North League will therefore vote against the proposed amendment of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u57	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, I am voting against the 5 Star Movement for the reasons already set out earlier by my colleague who spoke earlier. The 5 Star Movement is present here under a mandate of the citizens, to implement a great reform of the policy that includes a reduction in all possible areas of costs and structures. In this context, the amendment 1.0.1 which we proposed, and which was then withdrawn because there was no consensus, intended to distribute costs differently, resulting in a reduction, and the agenda G1 (text 2) goes in the same direction. For these reasons, I repeat our vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u60	BERNINI (PdL). Madam President, I rise to announce that the Group of the People of Freedom has voted in favour of the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure with transitional provisions. I would like to stress, also following the debate held in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and in this House and the comments made in the previous explanations of vote, that the issue of transitoryness has been highlighted as an essential element of this amendment. It was considered essential because, under the regime, it was decided to set up a double track system based on a modification of the Rules of Procedure characterized, first of all, by a stabilization of the number of Secretary Senators, which has been mentioned, which must correspond to the known principles that have been spent not only in this legislature but also in the previous and, in part, also in the 15th legislature. As I said, it is essential to respect the well-known principles of representativeness and proportionality, understood as respecting the consistency of the parliamentary groups also on the basis of the criterion of belonging to the political parties or movements that have produced them. Another essential, but just as fundamental, criterion is the so-called non-fragmentation, which the rapporteur rightly stressed, with a simplification in positive meaning, as an absolute need for the creation of a body of self-government of the Senate, not redundant, not pletoric, not characterized by a proliferation of Secretarian senators to question the functionality of the work or, even (and never) the political legitimacy of the decisions taken that, as is known, are of absolute importance and as such not likely to be called into question: they can be oriented (we see it with the work carried out by the Board for the Rules of Procedure, which always has a contribution and a suggestive characterization compared to the Council of Presidency) but cannot - I repeat - be questioned by redundancy or perhaps not representativeness with respect to the majority-opposition scheme characterized by the presence of Secretary senators within the body of self-government itself. The issues raised in the debate in this House and in the explanations of vote are those - as the rapporteur rightly pointed out - which also featured the work of the Junta. I began my speech by referring to the subject of exceptionalness because, without a doubt, it is the one that has most strongly characterized the debate and also the concerns that have emerged and which have then been highlighted in the explanation of vote of those who preceded me. The transitional provision seeks to remedy a pathology of poor representativeness which has been highlighted in this Presidency Council for three parliamentary groups set up in the first days of the legislature and which, at the moment, do not have a Senator Secretary of their own representative within the Presidency Council. It is a representativeness, moreover, guaranteed by a flat and textual reading of Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure, in particular paragraphs 2-a and 2-b, which provide for the possibility of the supplementary appointment of secretary senators integrating representation within the Presidency Council. For this reason, we have chosen this path, also referring to a given equally debated and discussed within the Junta, namely: how to proceed, in view of the possibility of electing two additional Secretary Senators, in the case of three legitimately constituted parliamentary groups? Through a prevalence criterion? And if so, which one? In this respect, proposals have been made identifying the chronological criterion as the relevant one. In fact, we felt that first of all this criterion could not be made definitive, and that in itself it was not satisfactory because it could not grasp all the specificities related to the consistency and dynamics of the Groups. In this respect, we have therefore considered, in order to remedy only here and now a lack of representation within the Presidency Council body, to make the amendment with the transitional provision that we are discussing here. A further element, rightly highlighted and which has also characterized the work of the Junta, concerns the allocation of costs, or rather, the forecast of costs and their allocation within the Presidency Council. Once again, the outcome of the debate showed a concerted determination. Some of the considerations that I would like to bring to the attention of this House are precisely part of the rapporteur's amendment and the agenda through which we wanted to stabilise certain guidelines and indications. In particular, as far as costs are concerned, without exacerbating an already burning topical issue - we are all aware that our country is experiencing an absolutely critical moment, that the economic and social crisis every day manifests itself in an even more urgent way and that the parliamentary assemblies cannot fail to take into account proportionally the sacrifice that the country is all called to do - it has also wanted to find a just mediation and conciliation between the requirements of containment of the necessary costs, due and already implemented by the Presidency Council, and excess demagogy, which at times risks making the organ not already less expensive but even inefficient or leading to the sacrifice of organic plants and jobs, also, let us not forget, worthy of protection in the eyes of the country together with the need, which must never be demagogic, of reducing costs. In this regard, we have considered - as previous speakers have already pointed out - that the cost of the additional Senator Secretary should be increased, compared with the two already provided for in the current wording of Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure, on the whole of the Presidency Council and thus guaranteeing the invariance of the post and therefore the budget of the Presidency Council, thereby allowing not to include a larger post - which would not be new as pointed out - in the Council. That is to say that we are all aware - and with this Mr President and my fellow senators I begin to conclude - and not insensitive to all the needs that have arisen - we have certainly not been aware of this within the Junta - including the difficult interpenetration and the difficult test of balancing the majority-opposition relationship between the Groups and within them, when characterized by a heterogeneous composition. Therefore, having to reach a mediation - it is our institutional duty - as balanced and satisfactory as possible, especially for this parliamentary term and in this exceptional contingency, we have considered that through this provision we have expected a reasonably representative balance of the political forces present here and now within this House. Also because - and I would like to stress this and rightly emphasized this, the rapporteur, being another of the issues that makes the transitional and exceptional rule - it would not be possible from now on, when a new group was set up, to claim the appointment of a new Senator Secretary, precisely because the dies a quo, deliberately identified by the work of the Junta, is the entry into force of the transitional amending provision of the Rules of Procedure. Considering that the need for representativeness, proportionality and non-fragmentation (the latter will then be the prerequisites for the general amendment of the Rules of Procedure which our fellow Senators of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will be called upon to make), for all these reasons, for the mediation we consider satisfactory, I repeat the favourable vote of the People of Freedom Group on the amending transitional provision of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u63	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Madam President, I rise to reiterate our Group's support for this regulatory change and to add only very few comments. I apologise to my colleague who supported the position of the North League, which I may not have listened to with due attention, but it seems to me that there is a contradiction in the arguments put forward on the basis of that explanation of vote. In fact, while on the one hand we are complaining about the difficulty of a rigid system of accommodating a political framework that can be in motion on extraordinary and exquisitely political issues, on the other hand, we are voting against a rule which, on the basis of an extraordinary event and a political framework handed over to us by the elections which we were used to until February last, seeks to adapt, with reference to the principle of representativeness, the Presidency Council to the new contingency. In fact, I believe that the most valuable result of the debate we have had (which has not begun now: I would like to remind you of the work that in the last parliamentary term exactly on this point the junta for the Rules of Procedure had begun and which went in the direction of a much wider reform of most of our Rules of Procedure, one of the unfinished reforms of which we must regret and deeply regret), its greatest result was to establish some very clear principles (the ones contained on the agenda that we have all shared) that will be valid for a regulatory reform that I hope will take place as soon as possible. It is obvious that none of us is hiding that the fixed number will create some political problem, but I believe it is our responsibility and political capacity, with the inflexibleness of a new Article 5 that sets a number of senators that in no way can be increased; to make that number correspond to the needs of representativeness. The colleague of the League of Tribune Law spoke: one of the political principles guiding the choice of members of the Council of President may well be to reserve a post to ensure the right to tribune, so that we can fully satisfy the principle of representativeness. I would add that in the original proposal for the reform of the Rules of Procedure presented by President Crimes, to which I too had joined, there is a rule, paragraph 5 of Article 1, as reworded, which in my opinion can very well be taken into account for the regulatory reform and which provides that Vice Presidents, Senators Quaestors and Secretary Senators who enter to be part of a parliamentary group other than that to which they belonged at the time of the election fall from office. Very well, let it be clear: cuius commoda, eius et incommoda, would have said my mother. I therefore believe that in this context the proposal that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has put forward, both as regards the regulatory change and the commitments made, must today have the full support of my Group. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u66	DELLA VEDOVA (SPI). Madam President, we have come to this debate in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the basis of an initial proposal which provided for a certain criterion to be used in this particular case. That is, the Rules of Procedure allowed to derogate from the number of Secretary Senators in a further number of two, in the presence, however, of three Groups that had formed - I say this to my colleague Mr Volpi - and a proposal for a regulatory amendment, which precisely introduced the chronological criterion, which, for example, in this particular case, would have excluded the GAL Group. With three Groups for two Secretaries, the chronological criterion - having to identify one, otherwise, what could have been chosen? The muscle, that is, who has friends with more numbers? - that in this case the LAG group would be disadvantaged, even though the situation was not so Cartesian, it seemed to me the most reasonable. So this regulatory change came about because the Groups had been formed substantially at the beginning of the legislature, although some days before and some others a few days later. We shall vote in favour, and apart from the arguments that have already been mentioned, because, first of all, the text of Article 1, which is also voted on by our colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, which is the heart of the measure, establishes on a transitional basis - the transitional things that then risk becoming definitive do not appeal to anyone, but in this case I believe that the formulations and the agenda unanimously supported in the junta for the Rules of Procedure should arm the actual transitionality - which, exceptionally, instead of forcing with an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure that was right or to those who have the most influential friends or those who had arrived simply before a few days, having established themselves at the beginning of the parliamentary term three Groups, and being so far provided for by two additional members of the Council of Presidency, three Secretarian Senators are elected without additional costs. That, I believe, is the fundamental fact, on which we agreed at the Presidency Council. That applies throughout the legislature. From now on, then, there will be no additional members of the Presidency Council, no matter what happens. There is an agenda, on which we at Civic Choice are totally in agreement, which includes a commitment to regulatory reform to regulate the birth of parliamentary groups. Many of us come from the European Parliament and know that there, for example, is a strict regulation on the formation of groups. So we vote in favour. It seems to me to be a balanced measure, which guarantees representativeness, without an increase in costs; on the contrary, the costs remain low, as already established by the Presidency Council with the planned cuts, and there are no additional ones. The issue from this point of view ends here, with a commitment to a reform of the perspective of the Regulations. [[Applause from Senator D'Onghia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u68	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u69	SCILIPOTI (PdL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree in principle with the rapporteur of my Group and also with some of the comments made in this House on document II, No 5, but I certainly cannot fail to pay attention to what the friends of the League have said, which do not pose a problem on the cost, but on the method, which in my opinion is partly wrong, as the Members of the League say. It is wrong because the approach had to be completely different, with a more careful analysis and much deeper reflection. It is not enough to say that this choice is made because it is a difficult, transitional moment, an exceptional moment, because it is true that it is a particular moment, but it is true that the rules cannot be called into question by using rules that go against the logic and the principle of respect for the institutions in some cases. Today I find myself in great difficulty: either I take a position in support of the PdL, voting in favour of the measure not being convinced, or I should vote in the opposite direction. Since I cannot make choices that are completely different from those of the Group to which I belong, I shall abstain from voting. However, I would prefer some reflections to be carried out with much more caution and serenity, not only in the collegial interest of the parliamentary groups, but also in the overall interest of the country and the Italian people.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, since an absolute majority of the Senate is required for the adoption of the text, I have, pursuant to Rule 107 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the number of those present before the final vote is taken. I therefore call on the senators and senators to introduce the cards into the seats' terminals in order to verify the presence of the absolute majority of the members of this House. I declare the verification open. (Follows the determination of the number of persons present.) In view of the outcome of the investigation, we shall proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u71	In accordance with Rule 167 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to say that by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of document II, No 5, in the amended text, with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed to be entitled to make any changes to the formal coordination which may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 245 Senators voting 244 Majority 160 Favorables 182 Contrars 61 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u74	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Madam President, in agreement with the presenter, I propose that we postpone the debate on motion No 20 on the establishment of the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad. Although the motion is an act of a parliamentary nature, we believe it is appropriate, given the contextuality of the closure of this phase of the legislature and the imminent establishment of the new Government, to wait for such settlement, for the necessary reasons of coordination with the new Executive and the Minister of Foreign Affairs that will settle.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u75	As there are no comments, I consider Senator Ghedini Rita's proposal to be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u76	The next item is the report by the Government on the post-an earthquake reconstruction in Abruzzo and Emilia-Romagna. I call the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, Professor Barca.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be here today to explain the state of post-sysm reconstruction in Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy, Veneto and Abruzzo, the latter region which I have followed directly in my responsibility. With regard to the earthquake in Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto, on the basis of the report of the Civil Protection Department, which I will deliver to this House... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Minister. I ask the House to respect and listen to the contents of this information. [[Applause from the PD, SCP and M5S groups]] , Minister for Territorial Cohesion. The institutional structure is well known - I am referring first of all to Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto - according to which the coordination of reconstruction is entrusted to the Presidents of the three Regions. It has also been, as is well known, established the Fund for the reconstruction of earthquake areas in which all available resources flow. It is on this Fund that the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and the ministerial decrees which allocate the resources allocated are adopted. I will mention only a few points to the individual regions, referring to the written text that I will deliver to the offices. As far as Emilia-Romagna is concerned, as is well known, over 42-43,000 people had to leave their homes. The damage to the productive heritage is high in an area known to be highly industrialized. The reconstruction involves, as well as directly citizens and businesses (a profile of particular interest also compared to other experiences), the system of autonomy with the establishment of the Institutional Committee and of direction composed of the Provinces and mayors. There are already active - and the references in the text are found - works of safety, recovery of housing in public housing and public administration, measures for the resumption of productive activities and a regional discipline for urban aggregates to be recovered. As far as the Lombardy Region is concerned, the earthquake has affected the province of Mantova, causing considerable damage to about 40 municipalities, affecting both civil and economic houses, especially agriculture. There was also damage to the historical, cultural, artistic and public heritage. It is estimated at about one billion total damage. At present, expenses of €42.8 million have been incurred for various interventions also on the productive fabric. He noted that EUR 37 million from the European Union Solidarity Fund had already been transferred to the Deputy Commissioner for Lombardy. Finally, as far as Veneto is concerned, the quantification of the damage for which, on the basis of the Civil Protection report, 769 reports of damage for about 50 million euros are presented. The support structure for the Commissioner is set up. EUR 1.7 million has been committed to ensure the economic coverage of interventions on school buildings and the urgent action plan for the population has been adopted. Finally, the Commissioner's action has been complemented by a number of initiatives that are borne by the Region's budget with an extraordinary detailed plan in the report that I attach. A special study devoted to the state of implementation of the reconstruction in the area of the Abruzzo crater, in view of the particular criticalities that led, on 27 January 2012, the President of the Council of Ministers to entrust me with a special task on this matter. Following the order of the President of the Council of Ministers No 4013, of 23 March 2012, aimed at strengthening transparency, rigour and procedures, as you know, on 7 August 2012, some provisions of the law were proposed and approved by Parliament. The model adopted with these rules provides that the autonomy of local decisions taken by the municipalities is accompanied by the support of two special offices, one for L'Aquila and the other for the 56 municipalities of the crater and that the programming and monitoring of resources are entrusted to the central administrations. The new set-up - and I shall sum up what I will say more flatly - has been made fully operational. The simplification, the responsibilities, the technical basis introduced are allowing, in these hours, the machine of the reconstruction to realize a very rapid examination of the practices, so as to absorb, in some cases immediately, in others within sixty and no more than ninety days, fully the 2,2 billion euros, the last available of the ten that the Country has invested; it is therefore necessary, as the undersecretary Catralà has made present to a delegation of mayors, that the next Government makes immediately available other financing. Assigned, and in part already under ban, are also resources for development. Allow me a few details. How did you get to this? On the basis of the work carried out, relations and also a resumption of relations with citizenship, the new legislation has been put in place. Its first practical effect was to close and unlock, by February 2013, the very serious situation that deprived the companies involved in the reconstruction of liquidity, with the provision of 488 million euros and the transfer to local authorities of 534 million euros for the construction. In the meantime, the following steps were taken, and are now fully implemented, on one of which I would like to dwell, because it is rather delicate. First, on 31 August the state of emergency ceased (let me point out that it took three and a half years, against the eight of Umbria and Marche). In addition, there were two special offices for reconstruction, one for L'Aquila and one to ensure coordination of the 56 municipalities of the crater, with an extraordinary effort by the mayors. Then there is the introduction of simplified procedures for the issue of contributions for private construction and, finally (the most important step of all, because it is not rebuilt without human and technical resources), the recruitment, to date, of 270 units of permanent staff (which within a few days will rise to 300), as well as of additional 48 fixed-term, the first selected on the basis of a public competition to which they participated, from all over the country and also from abroad, 17,000 candidates. In order to ensure the earliest possible entry into operation of the structures, the units in question have been selected, as you know and as decided by Parliament, with a 50% reserve for those already in possession of experience in the area of eagle reconstruction. At the same time, in order to ensure the training on the spot of those who had not already worked in the reconstruction and dispose of the accumulated practices, the special office of L'Aquila is making use of 23 senior collaborations, selected also by public procedure. Thanks to these steps the Municipality of L'Aquila and the remaining 56 municipalities of the crater, with an effort and a political courage that had not been seen until then, and with the support of the special offices, have done a trivial thing called programming, that is they have made true the 2.2 billion allocated by CIPE. The assignments of the CIPE, in fact, are fake until the actual assignment of the municipalities takes place. Thanks to this acceleration, and return to the financial point that is the most delicate, it becomes therefore indispensable a new availability of additional cash compared to what I myself and Minister Grilli signed on 22 April last for 510 million euros (and I am pleased to inform the Senate that in these hours I am signing a second change of budget before the end of the government activity for another half a billion euros, a sign of the capacity of absorption and acceleration in place in these hours in the area of the crater). But that is not enough. The estimates made by special offices and my offices show, in fact, an additional need for competence - which is obviously not in the availability of this Government - to ensure, as the Secretary of State Cattricalà said responding to the Municipalities, that reconstruction is not blocked in the next twelve months. The necessary amount, that we point out and I will signal to the next Government, is equal to one billion euros; the total amount necessary to finish the reconstruction of the Eagle is evaluable in an amount of 10,7 billion euros, until the end of the reconstruction. I shall conclude with three points, two technical points and one - if you will allow me - political. The first: while the reconstruction was being secured, the yards were growing, they were not stopped. When we took over the responsibility of contact for reconstruction, they were existing in the outskirts of 1,300 yards; Today in the outskirts are open 2,400 and in the old town of L'Aquila are granted today 100 contributions, others will be granted this week, still others in the next, because at this moment there are 700 questions in the course of examination (from which the need for cash and the mobilization of new skills). This also allowed us to reach today, throughout the crater, with regard to the most sensitive data, that is, the number of people returning to their home, the figure of 67 percent. It was already high, higher than was said, the figure when we had the responsibility. I shall return to this point of misinformation. Second observation: reconstruction activities have been accompanied by important measures for development and employment. I quote three: first of all, the call for EUR 80 million to support and promote the activities of micro and small enterprises in difficulty from the crisis with de minimis aid schemes. The ban has had an extremely positive outcome, with over 4,000 questions considered valid, of which - and this is the most striking - 13 percent above the minimum threshold for the only historical center of L'Aquila, indicating a recovery of confidence in the fact that that center can return to life: with the money of de minimis, in fact, you do not start commercial initiatives if you do not believe. At the same time, by decree of 8 April 2013, 100 million euros were distributed that CIPE had allocated to the development part for interventions related to the promotion of activities of strong innovation, tourist attraction and intelligent reconstruction, as it is called today. I note in particular in this regard that the first project call for sub-services has been awarded (L'Aquila will have the most advanced and modern electric grid in the country, with ability to connect with supplies from alternative sources) equal to 33 million euros. For this first call the award is scheduled for 30 May and the start of the work in July; a second call, for 47 million, will follow immediately, with the award scheduled for September. I shall end by apologizing for the length of the surgery, but this is probably the last time I have the pleasure of being here before you, and I read. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S and SCpI Groups]] Although in recent months we have also managed to accompany the unblocking of reconstruction with the provision of information and statistics that allow citizens to know and evaluate, I am dissatisfied with the result that I myself and the rest of the institutions have achieved on this front. Much remains to be done. OpenAquila, as we said, isn't there yet; at least there isn't, according to that model of OpenCohesion that I think is the new way in which you govern. It is an important objective that the two special offices know how to be in their business for the next 60-90 days. To achieve this goal is linked to the restoration of that confidence of the crater citizens (of those 140,000 and more perone) in the public institutions whose lack has so strongly weighed upon the difficulties of reconstruction. Together with the exhaustion, which I also hope before this Parliament, of the internal confrontation of the local ruling class of that city and of those municipalities, this passage of openness can ensure a return to serenity and certainty for a population first shaken by a physical and then civil earthquake. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and SCpI groups and Senator Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u78	I would like to thank Minister Barca for the information and to be here with us today. The Presidency authorizes the Minister to hand over the documents he referred to, for the purpose of publishing in an annex to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, it is impossible to forget the images of the disaster caused by the earthquake that in 2009, together with so many lives, also took away the hope of a territory and of a population. L'Aquila has faced in these years, with strength and dignity, a dramatic moment of its history, first in the management of the emergency, then in the police phase, entrusted to the president of the Abruzzo Region Gianni Chiodi, and still now, in that phase in which the spotlight has gone out, but still many sacrifices and efforts to be made to rebuild the palaces, but above all the lives of those who in that tragedy have lost everything. In that tragic April 2009, and in the months to follow, the then President of the Council of Ministers Silvio Berlusconi made a commitment with the people of Aquila, promising that he would do everything to bring people back to their homes very quickly, favoring the goal of a return to normality with the rapid recovery of schools and services. And so much has been done, thus avoiding the terrible risk of the diaspora, which would have condemned many areas hit by the earthquake, especially L'Aquila, to a hopeless decline. The Berlusconi Government has also allocated the necessary resources, the only ones available to date for the reconstruction of the Eagle: about 10.5 billion euros. On 1 February 2010, the activity of CEO Gianni Chiodi began, which ended on 31 August 2012. The Commissioner was the subject of unjustified attacks from the first to the last day of his mandate: ingenious and instrumental attacks by the local administrators, who gave the illusion to the eagles who could quickly start and finish the reconstruction, including that of a historic center of great monumental consistency such as the eagle. The local administrators, in particular the mayor of L'Aquila and its junta, instead of launching in time the preparation of the necessary planning tools, provided for by Law No 77 of 2009 and the competence of the municipalities, have ridden a form of sterile and harmful protest. In the meantime, CEO Chiodi completed the management phase, whose results must not be forgotten: 45,000 people of the approximately 100,000 displaced have returned home, 22,000 of them in the CASE project and in the MAP; the rest has the contribution for the so-called autonomous accommodation. 11,000 yards out of 11,000 were closed for private buildings damaged in a medium and mild way; 2,000 out of 9,000 for private buildings badly damaged; 634 million were committed to various public reconstructions, many of which concerned school and university buildings, and today 17,000 children are in earthquake-proof school buildings. 124 public interventions on cultural heritage were financed. Interventions have been made to support the companies damaged for EUR 200 million, and 40% of the amount of contributions and taxes suspended during the earthquake has been reduced and to be returned. At the end of the Commissioner's phase, on 31 August 2012, however, the reconstruction activities slowed sharply. The elimination of the commissioner seems to have occurred more in the statements than in the facts; the special offices are still not working today, with the risk that they will turn into useless carriages. Many proceedings at the date of 31 August 2012 were suspended. Already tested, functional and rapid forms of contribution have been eliminated, such as those resulting from the Cassa Deposit and Loan Circuit. But, above all, the forecast of new resources in addition to those allocated during the Berlusconi Government under the Abruzzo decree has failed. Where has the return to the ordinaryity decreed by the Barca law gone? [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u80	I apologize to Senator Chiavaroli, but the senators have to stick to the schedule.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u81	[[Comments of Senator Chiavaroli]] CHIAVAROLI (PdL). Madam President, I would ask you to hand over the remainder of my speech to the Presidency so that it can be annexed to the documents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u82	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as was anticipated at the sitting of the Senate Assembly on 3 April last, I formally asked President Grasso, on 5 April, to consider the opportunity to convene our Assembly, pursuant to Article 62 (2) of the Constitution, in the city of L'Aquila for the direct observation of the state in which a capital city is located, recognized of enormous artistic and architectural historical value. Today's session stems from our request, which wanted to propose to the representative republican institutions the possibility of carrying out a wide debate of reflection on the recent seismic events, on the state of physical and social reconstruction and on the inability shown in listening to the territories, which will explain widely my colleague Bulgarelli after me. We cannot fail to take into account the legitimate demands of the Abruzzo citizens of the crater, made evident from the first months after the earthquake and for too long remained unanswered. Until now there have been partial, costly, non-solving interventions that have left ample margins to lawlessness. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Puglisi]] On these issues, concerning the reconstruction of the Eagle, I presented an act of inspection union and filed a proposal for parliamentary inquiry. The new Government, in particular, will be asked for precise answers on the enormous problems still open in the field of reconstruction, while the Government in office (and what preceded it) will ask for their work and the reasons for the serious malfunctions recorded. Too many, in fact, are the still obscure points in the management of a story that began - let us not forget - with a tragedy in which 309 people lost their lives, more than 1,500 were injured and 70,000 were displaced. 12.40 a.m. (Follow BLUNDO) We believe that the time has come to shed light on data and documents, funds allocated, funds actually made available, on their consistency and state of use, on the results of the activities carried out by public administrations and those involved, in various ways, in the reconstruction of the territories affected by the earthquake, with particular reference to the adequacy of the strategic planning and the planned timetable. Further issues that urgently require careful and in-depth parliamentary review of the government's work are the implementation of the commitments made for the resumption of productive activities and for the recovery of cultural assets, the safety of buildings, environmental protection, energy certification, water saving, the prevention of seismic risk and the disposal of the rubble to be transformed into resource and not waste. We therefore ask, apart from all rhetoric, precise answers to specific questions. The state of reconstruction is under everyone's eyes and does not admit digressions, promises and postponements. The reconstruction of the Eagle, is stopped on 12 February last as the Minister explained, date of the last publication by the municipal administration of the list of definitive contributions. There is a widespread feeling that there is no effective financial cover, as has already been said. We ask for this case, which is special and urgent, to derogate from the territorial or public finance constraints related to the use of the resources of the FSC, thus quickly unlocking the sums that CIPE assigns. It is therefore necessary to ask for clarity on resources and availability and also to prevent unacceptable cases of foreclosure of the funds allocated for reconstruction. There is also a strong need for regulatory clarity. Decree-Law No 83 of 22 June 2012, converted into Law No 134 of 7 August 2012, ratified the end of the commissioning, setting up two special offices and providing, in article 67-d, paragraph 2, that, until the adoption of a single text of the provisions concerning interventions related to seismic events of 6 April 2009, the provisions of the civil protection orders issued in implementation of Decree-Law No 39 of 2009 which still present additional applicability profiles (see the judgment of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of L'Aquila) remain effective. Well, in order to clarify the legislation produced by Commissioners' orders over the past four years, we would like to know why the single text referred to in Article 67-d, after eight months, has not yet seen the light. We ask for the time allowed for this proper fulfillment. Moreover, the voluntary delegation to the municipalities by the owners of non-main dwelling buildings for the design, execution and management of the works, to access the contribution or compensation due to them, is also a matter of concern. In the absence of this it would be impossible to have recognition of the contribution for the repair and consolidation of the common parts of the building in which the same housing unit is inserted. We can only hope for an interpretation that prevents us from reading this rule as a transfer of rights to shipyards run by the usual big names, to the detriment of the local economy. It is necessary to put an end to the promiscuity between rules of national level, extraordinary, derogations, necessity and urgency, and secondary regulations of ministerial source, the urban planning and planning rules of the municipal or regional level, giving certainty to the procedures, the authority and the effectiveness of public acts. From the implementation point of view, there is no shortage of shadow areas. The Government has wanted a public competition, which has already been mentioned, to choose the workers who will deal with the post earthquake reconstruction and, since each selection involves a use of economic resources, special funds have been allocated, found with the increase of excise duties on gasoline, although they had previously been hired for high merit technical graduates and professionals. For the last 23 collaborations (to which I have mentioned) coordinated and continuous for the Special Office of Reconstruction, it has inexplicably chosen not to draw on the rankings already published in the Official Journal, using a less rigorous and transparent procedure in the recruitment of persons not of the territory. A question has also been put to the Chamber of Deputies of our Group on this point. Remaining to the normative problems, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 4 February 2013, focused on the historical centers, reformulates however also the calculation of the contributions due to the reconstruction, for which there was no explicit delegation. In addition, the application of the parametric method is extended to certain situations in the outskirts, generating uncertainty in the institutions about the correct procedure to be followed in specific cases. The issue of delays is particularly worrying. Harmonisation of the currently separate investigation processes is essential, which generate discordant timings with negative effects on reconstruction. We think in particular of the process that, on the one hand, involves the Civil Genio of the province of L'Aquila and, on the other, the offices of reconstruction for administrative aspects. It happens that the documents that must arrive from the Civil Genio block the beginning of the works already authorized by the other offices, with obvious increase of time on the return of the population, which does nothing but generate additional costs for the State. There is also a security problem for both buildings and people. On the first front, while the parametric chart introduces a lower degree of freedom in the replacement of buildings (demolition and reconstruction) for historic centres (and this is aimed at preserving the historical and artistic heritage), on the other hand, the 60% limit for static adaptation of buildings for which consolidation will be carried out is clearly inappropriate, where, in the cases of demolition and reconstruction, the target of 100% adjustment must be achieved, as provided for in the mandatory technical standards for construction since 2008. In a construction system that tends to save and does not guarantee safety, the spread of a worrying illegality is grafted on, which sees the emergence of increasing types of illicits, linked above all to phenomena of microcriminality (in particular, crimes against the heritage and the person) that have assumed an alarming frequency, so as to generate strong concern and fear in the citizens, already severely vexed by seismic events. This happened in parallel with the progressive disposal of forces in the field: paradoxically, there has been a shift from an excess of military presence to a substantial abandonment of the population. It was requested by the 5 Star Eagle Movement to the prefect to bring together the Provincial Committee for Public Order and Security... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u83	Please conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u84	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to attach the full text of my speech to the documents. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u85	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u86	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2009 earthquake, in addition to the painful loss of human lives, has caused a socio-economic damage of great importance to the whole of Abruzzo. After the emergency phase, which the Berlusconi Government has taken care of in excellent times - I just want to remind you that six months after the earthquake were already ready the first temporary housing modules (MAP) - we have moved to the most difficult and complex phase: that of reconstruction. Today, for the time I have available, I will unfortunately have to talk only about structural reconstruction and the problems associated with it, but I hope to have a next opportunity, Mr President, to talk about social reconstruction, to which I devote myself from the first moments of that tragic 6 April 2009, because I think it is of equal importance, even if it is sometimes somewhat underestimated. For the architectural and structural reconstruction of the Eagle and the crater municipalities, the indispensable point is to have adequate financial resources for the damage paid in certain times: a constant flow and payable for the constant maintenance of the works, because the enterprises are no longer able to anticipate without obtaining the reimbursement of the payments already made. It would be useful, for the next six years at least, to include a chapter of expenditure only for the reconstruction of the Eagle and the crater municipalities in the state budget, for a quantifiable figure of at least one billion euros. This will, among other things, be my proposal, which I will present as soon as the new Government is installed. It is therefore necessary to guarantee certain resources, to restore the facilitated contribution (touched by the Monti Government) that provides for the anticipation of the good contribution to the private citizen by the banks, to lighten the bureaucracy: in fact, there are hundreds laws and ordinances that wrap the reconstruction. The economic recovery of the territory affected by the earthquake comes from the reconstruction of buildings: so far companies of 84 provinces of Italy have participated in the reconstruction, and this is the down great open yard of Europe. If everything started quickly, it would take about 30,000 work units. I would like to open a parenthesis for those municipalities of the four Abruzzo provinces that have also been severely damaged: I am referring above all to those of the area of the Peligna and Subequana Valleys that have suffered greater damage, certified by civil protection technicians, and that, being outside the crater, continue to have serious problems, despite the decree-law n. 39 of 2009 assigns contributed for all the damaged municipalities, inside and outside the crater, without predicting any distribution. In fact, the new decrees blocked the interventions for municipalities outside the crater, allocating absolutely inadequate figures. It is therefore necessary that municipalities outside the crater are adequately represented in the resource planning process and in the decision-making process for both technical and economic evaluations that will be based on the next financing decrees. The reconstruction phase, entrusted today to the local authorities and to a commissioner appointed by the central government (today is Minister Barca), appears slow and somewhat confused at some time. To conclude, therefore, I hope that the institutions will, as soon as possible, favour all those proposals which will also be presented by us Members in order to optimize time and resources. We must give the people affected a strong signal, which gives them the certainty - and not only the hope - that reconstruction is a national problem, which must also see the central government engaged in the coming years, until L'Aquila and the affected countries return to their former splendour. [[Applause from the PdL and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u88	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u89	Mr President, ladies senators and senators, for us Aquilans, for us citizens of the crater, as I imagine for the people of Emilia-Romagna (because Abruzzo and Emilia-Romagna will have to go on together in the complex task of rebuilding the land and the community), this is an important moment. I have a few minutes at my disposal, but I hope there will be other opportunities. Surely an opportunity will come when, finally, there will be a measure that will give the citizens of the crater the certainty of being able to face the challenge of reconstruction. Minister Barca, whom I thank for his hard work, knows well - and he said this at last by enunciating a truth that until now had been denied - how many resources still need for L'Aquila and the crater to be rebuilt: over 10 billion euros. This means that this country, this Parliament, will have to provide for a financing law, through the system - hopefully - of the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, that ensures the financing of at least 1 billion per year with a direct contribution so that the citizens of the crater can face this great challenge, so that the municipalities can keep the commitments made in their programs, so that the capital and the affected cities can again smile. Dear President, dear Senators and Dear Senators, I was born in L'Aquila, I lived there for most of my life and that night I was there. My daughter attended a school that collapsed; if the earthquake had occurred during school hours, it would have caused the death of 600-700 children under the rubble. In these four years, frankly, I've heard so many. Even this morning, I have heard some hints of political controversy that today, perhaps, could be spared. But since matters have been raised, I also do so to defend the people who, like me, were there and had to flee from their homes; some have returned to them in these years, while others have not yet returned, nor do they know when and if they will be able to do so. But I will not talk about the Commission's reassurances; I will not talk about those who laughed at us at 3.32, already foreshadowing the possibility of profiting from the earthquake and earthquakes; I will not talk about those who told about a miracle that never happened and that there will be no miracles because humans do not do miracles: humans do politics in these fora. I'm not going to talk about the batons we took, the complaints we received when we defended our city with our nails and teeth. I will not talk about the funds that have never arrived, about the unjust criticisms directed at local administrators, who have never moved from that city, who have struggled, sweated, maybe even making some mistakes; administrators who have been confirmed by the vote, so obviously they have not made so many mistakes. I, as Councillor to the City of L'Aquila, still defend the work of administrators, also defend those mayors not of center-left who, like us, have never stopped since that day. And to say what has been said here is an affront to those communities that administrators choose them, and if they choose those administrators they must be respected. I'm not going to talk about the overflow of so many, too many who talked about the Eagle without living it, without sharing it, without getting attached to it. Fortunately, Italy loved us, protected us and helped us from that morning when aid started coming from all over the country months, for years. Let's talk about the future. Dear Minister, today you announced something important and I thank you. I will work together with the entire Democratic Party, and I hope with the other forces of this Parliament and this Senate, so that this first partial measure, as the Minister has confirmed, will mark further measures. We need EUR 10 billion. Emilia-Romagna also needs funds and other lands, affected by other tragedies, have similar needs: we can no longer afford in this beautiful and important Italy not yet able to face the natural risk. We need an organic law that helps the territories deal with emergencies and then we need funds for reconstruction. It's a city, it's a community in trouble. There is a problem of social reconstruction, mentioned here, in a territory of the crater in which the Region had the courage to cut the funds for the social, as if we were a territory in which you can afford to cut the funds for the non self-sufficiency, for the disabled, for social mobility. A community forced to live in a difficult condition. So let's stop the controversy over the past and face the challenge of the coming months and years: a law of continuous and progressive financing and respect for those who have suffered such a great tragedy. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u90	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, all of you will understand that, even today, speaking on this subject, at the top of my thoughts and those of all, there is the feeling alive and intact for a story that remains, after four years and after what has happened, a wound still open in the history of one of our most beautiful cities, and in particular in the history of a city that involves my land. Of all the metaphors that explain our country to the height of its decline, it seems that the earthquake that struck L'Aquila is the bitterest, most painful aspect, because it combines in itself the different faces of the crisis of this country. It is the crisis of a territory reduced in rubble, of a work that is almost no longer there, of a reconstruction that in the historic center, one of the most beautiful in the world, has never really started. Then there is the phenomenon of detachment, of the growing abandonment of the city by young people, professionals, young couples, traders, who have lost confidence and hope to start living again in their land. Four years after the earthquake there are more than 20,000 people who still live far from their home, of which 15,000 are still settled in temporary housing, in the new town, theorized and built in the aftermath of the earthquake almost as a new model of reconstruction. There are still people living in hotels, in accommodation facilities outside the Region, and others housed in the barracks of the Finance Guard. It is a well known situation, sadly known, as are known the slowness and machinousness of an employment recovery effect and cause at the same time delays and inefficiencies, easy promises and failures. In four years, a few more than 200 yards have been opened in a framework in which the main hub of reconstruction is still the historic center of L'Aquila, while these yards are almost all on the outskirts of the city. It is the same House that provides us with the data that 50% of the workers who are contributing to the reconstruction work come from outside the region, with local companies that are not involved in the reconstruction of their territory. I wonder how it is possible that the Abruzzo Region still lacks a specific regional law able to bind to the reconstructive action the local enterprises, not for a mere localistic logic but to recreate, through the work that the reconstruction can and must put in motion, that confidence to invest and to bet in a possible future in own territory, thus defeating also the temptation to abandon a city that would end up being, as the mayor Cialente has denounced, condemned to death. I remember that the Emilia-Romagna Region on this point, instead, has approved in a few months a regional law that obliges to the use of labor and local firms for the reconstruction in the earthquake zones. After four years in Abruzzo we are still to the absence of a regulation that can help the economy of the territory to grow and to instill confidence and hope to the many workers who instead end up remaining passive spectators of the laborious work of reconstruction of their own city. As far as the decisive issue of resources is concerned, I have listened to the Minister's report and I have two very specific questions. On 15 March 2013, the CIPE Resolution of 21 December 2012 authorising the allocation of EUR 2,245 million (of which EUR 1,400 million for 2013, EUR 450 million for 2014 and EUR 395 million for 2005) from the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund for the financing of reconstruction interventions was published in the Official Journal. But Article 2 of the resolution provides for a rule of financial protection, according to which the supply of resources will take place in a temporal manner compatible with the constraints of public finance. In this regard, therefore, I would like to put a question straight away with a view to securing funding, namely to ask the Minister (beyond the safeguard clause, which - as we all know - is requested by the Treasury, so as to always have the last word on financial balance) if he considers that the payment of 2,245 million in three years is compatible with these current constraints and, if not, what are the margins (this is what we are asking for) in order to ensure that these resources are actually provided in the end, because it is absolutely essential that this happens. We therefore ask ourselves, if it is not possible to remain faithful to the time set, whether the Government (at this point the new Government) will take all measures to ensure that these funds are actually paid out. The other issue that we raise concerns the impossibility of fulfilling the commitments made with the people, deceiving them, once again, with promises that are known not to be able to maintain, as happened with the story of the 2 billion allocated by INAIL in 2009 and still dead letter. I believe that the Minister is quite clear on the matter: the INAIL budgeted EUR 2 billion for the four-year period 2009-2012, but nothing has happened to date; not only that, but from 2013 onwards, the amounts allocated in 2009 will probably be cancelled as residuals. Therefore, the only intervention (among other things laughable compared to the scale of the tragedy we are faced with) that the Ministry of Economy realized (and this is known to it) on 3 October 2012, emanating the interministerial decree that determines the cash authorizations for carrying out, among other things, investments in Abruzzo, concerns a cash availability of just 50 million per year. At least these are the issues that we believe should have an immediate response, because the Minister has confirmed to us what are the expenditure forecasts necessary to be able to really start a reconstruction work. Therefore, at least on the issues arising from the choices made by CIPE and INAIL, we want to have immediate answers. All this, like the INAIL affair, shows that there has been an inertia of the competent bodies of the Ministries precisely in ensuring the resources, in using them, in giving them to the Municipality and to the local administrations; an inertia, an absurd bureaucracy that has meant that today we are still in the situation that other senators have described. In view of this inertia, however, there has been an incredible work - and I would like to thank them - of the local communities, voluntary associations, spontaneous and self-organized groups, which have carried out and carry out, often in solitude, an admirable action of intervention and closeness to the local populations. Moreover, thanks also to the protests and the work and the commitment of the municipal administration of L'Aquila, there are some innovations, such as the technical-procedural one of the constitution of two special offices for the reconstruction of the historical center of Aquila and the other municipalities of the crater. A choice that at this point can facilitate and speed up the use of the part of resources made available for reconstruction and the unblocking of others - these are the right issues that I have raised before - whose use, we repeat, has in all these years been strongly hampered precisely by the absolute inability of the State to guarantee its employment. It would also be useful and appropriate, President and Minister, to seriously discuss what further reconstruction will be, because reconstruction also means starting to make some choices on the territory, on the reconstructive quality, on the quality of recovery, on environmental sustainability. These are the issues we hope to be able to take further action on. In the meantime, we hope that this debate will also stimulate the Government that is about to be born. Let us also remember that the story of the Eagle struck by the earthquake, of its laborious reconstruction is a national affair, which concerns the whole of Italy, concerns the dignity and hope of which a nation should prove, not only towards its own citizens, but towards Europe and the world. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u92	Senator Davico is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u93	Mr President, representative of the Government, L'Aquila: magnitude 6.3; 256 shocks in the 48 hours following the main shock; 308 deaths (a massacre); 1,600 injured; 65,000 displaced persons; over 10 billion euros of damage. These are the cold figures of the catastrophe of that April 6, 2009, which is defined as the fifth most destructive earthquake in this country in contemporary times. Then there is what I have personally carved forever in my memory and in my heart. At that time I was State Secretary for the Interior and I was among the first to arrive in those devastated places, where the silence of death was broken only by the incessant noise of the rescue machine, timely, immediate, constant, coordinated, effective. Civil Protection and Firefighters performed miracles, then gathering praises and recognitions from the whole world for the efficiency and preparation demonstrated at that time. The interior minister Maroni set up a formidable deployment of police forces, army, air and ground rescue facilities. The action of the entire Government has distinguished itself, while the country was grieving, for the immediate intervention of accommodation of the affected population and of securing the dangerous buildings, especially the historical ones, those of that historical center that, in the first hours after the earthquake, I saw with my eyes wounded in the depths and bent under the weight of a catastrophic event that, as scientifically proven, is unfortunately not, to date, predictable. Without ever forgetting to refer to the 308 victims, not only Aquila, that earthquake brought invaluable damage to the historical-artistic heritage of which the city of L'Aquila was particularly rich and, with her, the whole of our country. I cannot fail to point out to a survey of the financial resources allocated to the areas affected by the earthquake that there has been a total amount of appropriations for post-an earthquake interventions of around € 10.6 billion, of which € 10.5 billion was public: for the emergency, about € 3 billion, and the remaining € 7.5 billion for reconstruction. The government of which I was a part allocated, only for the first emergency, 680 million euros; 833 million to create immediately a project of sustainable and environmentally friendly anti-seismic complexes, the so-called CASE, that is about 4,500 apartments able to accommodate more than 15,000 people; a second project, of about 3,500 temporary housing modules, the so-called MAPs, able to accommodate about 7,000 people, for about 284 million; a further project of modules for temporary school use, the MUSPs, with 32 prefabricated schools able to accommodate more than 6,000 students, for about 82,8 million. Additional resources were allocated for the reconstruction of road and rail networks, amounting to a total of 300 million. According to the report of the President of the Abruzzo Region, to whom supervision has been assigned for the reconstruction and the closing of the emergent phase, are still available, that is to use, approximately 4 billion euros. The effort therefore, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, has been seen, seen from the outset, and has been exceptional, enormous, recognized. The emergency has been dealt with in the best way possible, no matter how meaningful this expression may have been in those conditions, in the face of those victims. The walkways of the Monti government have not brought to the coffers of reconstruction anything more than it was in the forecasts of the government that you usurped. Yes, that you usurped, that you expropriated. There's a second part, the one about Val Padana. The crater of Val Padana, Minister Barca, is still an open story. Unlike the earthquake of 2009, the earthquake of 20 and 29 May 2012, of magnitude 5.9, was devastating especially for the extent of the affected territory: three affected regions, about ten provinces, most Emilian, but also Rovigo and Mantua. Moreover, the duration of the seismic sequence and the repetition of the shocks have alerted the inhabitants of the area and the productive activities for many months, which has put in difficulty, not to mention on the knees, the daily activities and especially the productive ones of the residents. In one of the most productive areas of the entire country, which represents 1.8 of the national GDP, the earthquake caused 27 victims and more than 40,000 displaced, but also destroyed the economy, ending up hitting that of the entire country. In a few weeks thirty years of history of production activities have been demolished and some 5,000 employees have been lost in a crisis for all. The spotlight on those economies, desperately clinging to the attention that the country would be able to guarantee to those who in that tragedy lost everything, were kept on fire especially by private individuals, certainly not by the government currently in office. And how much the earthquake victims and the earthquake victims have felt, I don't say it today, the chronicles tell. It is to the record that when the IMU was applied even to those who no longer had a home and lived in a tent, the exasperated earthquake victims asked for a simplification of the bureaucracy that would make their lives at least easier. Not even this was possible, and the whistles that greeted Mario Monti to his pre-election visit to Mirandola were the sign, impressed on fire in the memory of all. In fact, the population is still experiencing serious administrative difficulties in order to be able to acquire the contributions for reconstruction. The practices are long, the evaluations cost so much (about 10% of the contribution), people are afraid of wrong questions and losing their right to finance. Added to this is the crowding of the ordinances of the Presidents of the Regions and the need to revise the questions according to new terms, which makes the times incredibly long. Another difficulty is the contrast between regional and municipal regulations; for example, the parameters for estimating damage and quantifying the contribution are the standard ones and correspond to the square of the destroyed buildings. However, most of the buildings for productive use are classified as historical by the municipalities and this obliges the enterprises to intervene for reconstruction with materials evaluated according to historical parameters that make the reconstruction more costly and even more expensive the anti-seismic intervention, requiring a direct economic commitment of the entrepreneurs. And those who are involved in this particular situation are, above all, small companies, craft companies, which are unable to share if the contributions do not arrive; of course, the large industrial groups, multinational, having financial availability, in some way they are all broken down, anticipating the funds of the contributions that still have to come. Citizens call for the declaration of a no tax area, as happened in L'Aquila, with a percentage reduction of taxes due, and exemption from industry studies. Unfortunately, there are almost tragicomical stories (if they can be defined in that context), such as those of the request for payment of the TARSU by the municipalities calculated on the square meters of the caravans (the buildings, in fact, have been destroyed) or of the payment of the bills on almost non-existent services (only the ENEL has not yet sent the bills) and of the payment of the taxes on the basis of sector studies that no longer correspond to the real economic situation of the companies. 13.19 (Follow DAVIC). I shall conclude, Mr President, by making a statement at the very moment when a new government is being created. There is a clear need for immediate action to resolve these issues: in this we commit ourselves from now on and we are going to invite the Government that is emerging in these hours, a government that will see the light soon, after a gestation that has produced and increased this type of problems too long. [[Applause]] of Senator Volpi). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is registered to speak Senator Marino Luigi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u94	Madam President, Senators and Senators, I shall focus on the earthquake that hit 33 municipalities in Emilia-Romagna, some municipalities, as has been mentioned, in the province of Rovigo and some in the province of Mantua. I will try to make a general speech, because the more technical aspects and even the more specific requests made by colleagues who have preceded me I believe are all to the attention of the Region and the Government. I believe that three lessons can be learned from this earthquake. The first is that the earthquake that hit the 20th and 29th of May 2012 Emilia-Romagna was unexpected. All the misfortunes, all the dramatic events of this land, of our land, are just dramatic and therefore unexpected. This earthquake, however, has been more unexpected than others. Although a thorough historical reading warns us to have more caution in the assessment of disasters, in the historical sequence, until May 20 last year those who like me live in the Po Valley, in the areas of the earthquake, were relatively sure about their home, their work activity, safe on their health relative to a seismic event. We got the long waves of the great earthquakes that hit our country - I think of Friuli-Venezia Giulia but they were long waves, far away. We didn't think such events could affect our land, this land. Therefore, it is clear that there is no area in our country, no area, no city, no territory sheltered from earthquakes. When a country finds itself, like ours, on the edge of a fault, of a crust, of a plaque that, inevitably, moves as all the plates move, it is, more than any other country, subject to earthquakes, and when on the edges of the plaque you reach the point of fracture, the load of sufficient energy, there is a seismic event more or less serious, until we reach the dramas that we touched to the Eagle and in Emilia-Romagna more recently. Every disaster comes from the combination of two factors: the first is the danger of the territory, that is the natural factor, and the other is the vulnerability of the territory, the fact, that is, that man makes more difficult and dramatic the seismic event, the event of the earthquake. Therefore, as earthquakes are currently not predictable or avoidable, prevention needs to be stepped up. That's the real point. We must do even more than we have done so far in the field of prevention. We must generalize the construction of houses that comply with the anti-seismic regulations and above all we must adapt the current houses, the current factories and industrial sites to the anti-seismic regulations. On the other hand, Decree-Law No. 74 obliges all the companies and houses of the crater, all the companies of the crater, even those not damaged, to adapt at least 60% to the anti-seismic legislation. This indication, which on the one hand is discriminatory compared to those who find or not in the crater area, should be generalized throughout the national territory. I would just like to remind you that those who go to a real estate agency in Japan, where they are earthquake experts, those who buy a house or factory in Japan have the right to ask the manufacturer or agency to review the anti-seismic regulations applied in the building in question but also to know everything that can and must be done when an earthquake occurs in terms of prevention. Therefore prevention is the first teaching. Then there is a second one: the earthquake in Emilia-Romagna, as has been mentioned, hit a very large area, very populous, but above all densely populated with industrial, craft, commercial and cooperative enterprises. Almost half of the direct damage caused by the earthquake refers to the business chapter (about 5 billion out of 11). The earthquake, therefore, hit a productive area that, more or less, is worth 2% of GDP (as has also been said, 2.8 percent), and the dead, to whom our emotional memory and thought goes, have largely died under the buildings of their companies. As has already happened for other events and other disasters, when earthquakes occur, these illuminate the qualities of the populations who suffer it and, in the case of the Emilians, have enlightened their capacity to self-organization, initiative and social mobilization. On the one hand, people, entrepreneurs and workers have not waited for the public hand to start again; on the other hand, the public response has also been ready, effective and decisive both in the emerging phase and in the phase of assistance to the population and the first aid. This brings us to the second lesson, namely that, in tragedies, in misfortunes, we must have strong social cohesion, strong cooperation between the social partners and the institutions and that within the same institutions, as in Emilia, we must also have effective application of the principle of subsidiarity, both horizontal between civil society and the institutions, and between the same institutions. The institutional chain must also be recognised. In general, we always tend to speak ill of the institutions, especially in the dramatic moments; on this occasion we must give note to the top of the commissioner's management, to the commissioner for reconstruction, that is to say to the president of the Emilia-Romagna Errani Region, and to his collaborators of having done a good job, an excellent job. The same can and must be said of the fruitful and fruitful cooperation that has taken place between the Government, Parliament and the Region on this matter. Finally, there is the third teaching. Often on disasters, as was mentioned by the colleague of the 5 Star Movement, the hand of organized crime has been extended, and not only of individuals, who are often well organized. However, due and obligatory attention to avoid infiltration has always led to an excess of procedures and above all to a dilation of the times. I would not like to make bold comparisons, because confronting disasters is always not pleasant, but I would like to remind you that, after the earthquake in Los Angeles, or rather Northridge, in 1994, when the Californian capital was reduced to a medieval city with the bridges destroyed, in 74 days the main arteries were reopened to traffic, in seven months all public works were carried out and in 18 months the private ones, have fixed their homes even with interventions of the federal state. So, what is the teaching (the third) that we draw from this tragedy? [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u95	I'm sorry, Senator, you finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u96	MARINO Luigi (SCPI). The third lesson that can be derived from this story was not to start, even in procedures, always from scratch. The accumulation of experience is relevant: instead for us it is always irrelevant. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u97	Madam President, Senators, Minister, I regret that such an important subject is being dealt with in an empty Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] They taught me that mistakes and problems can and must be learned. After the earthquake that struck L'Aquila, about which my colleague and friend Enza Blundo spoke, the State has shown that it has learned nothing; instead, the Emilians have shown not only that they can learn, but that they can react. They had to react where, at a time of extreme difficulty, the State could not intervene and help them in the extreme need; a State that did not intervene and did not even create the conditions to promote the commitment that so many individual citizens, with incredible and spontaneous generosity, showed for the people. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're right. I wish everyone could listen. Moreover, according to the Rules of Procedure, there are only a few minutes left for the speeches, so let us take this into account. BULGARRELLI (M5S). I wonder if that is the respect I always hear of in this House. As I was saying, the State did not intervene promptly and decisively, just as it did not know how to give the necessary support to the people who instead voluntarily, and above all for free, activated to solve the major operational problems on the territory. The human aid that the State had to give to individual citizens and to all small entrepreneurs, however, has not arrived. Yet, we have all witnessed, perhaps with false disenchantment, the inhumane carelessness of those who have spontaneously activated themselves to recover their lives. There is a disturbing relationship between the Abruzzo earthquake and that of Emilia, and it is not a relationship of cause and effect; it is not a healthy relationship: it is a morbid and sick relationship, and the cause is right here, in the rooms of power. It is in the chambers of power that an insane relationship with earthquakes and between these two earthquakes has been born and developed. The chambers of power are not only those of politics but also those where the economy moves. Maybe we should remember those terrible laughter in the middle of the night or the debitory records sent to the Emilian-Roman taxpayers who lost their jobs and homes? What is surprising is the fact that the power, up to now active, has insisted on considering the earthquake emergency as a part-time work, an opportunity that allows to hold two or three posts, starting from the extraordinary commissioner for the earthquake, President of the Region and President of the State-Regions Conference [[Applause from the M5S Group]] to many other local administrators of the affected lands, who maintain several very important functions at the same time. A power that should provide funding to share out and, instead, on the lives that it should protect and support, does the most biech mathematical calculations. It is always that power that called for success when it had managed to obtain 80% reimbursements from the State for reconstruction, saying that it was not enough for everyone; but, even worse, it is the same that when it was denied, thanks to the only opposition and the strength of the citizens, it did not even apologize. A power that continues to play with people's lives by believing that it is enough not to talk about it on the news as if the problem were solved. It may be useful here to recall that this same power had set up an International Commission to clarify the relationship between fracking and shaking, but the Commission has never met and we remain unanswered. A power that manages to domesticate the same bureaucracy, that bureaucracy that still blocks the reconstruction, that has ridden these tragedies making itself seen in the rubble with the worker's helmet, then leaving the citizens when the cameras have turned off; that has allowed the construction of sheds made of sand that collapsed killing the workers. For this reason, we feel like sending, now more than ever, because we are here, within the highest institution, sincere apologies to the populations affected for what has not been done since the first shocks to today, committing ourselves personally to doing what the power has not done to date. The reconstruction program must be slim, fast and, above all, concrete, but speed may not be combined with approximation: concreteness can and must have to do with programming. Overall, we have suffered damage of around €12.2 billion and the terrible economic consequences continue to drag into a productive area that for decades has contributed in an extremely important way to the national gross domestic product. Now all this is gone, but the fire hatches under the ash: there is only need for someone to blow over it. It is now a new day; money is there, it comes from European government funds and donations, and it must be unlocked. We have already deposited and will deposit acts to streamline the bureaucracy and to request the destination of the eight per thousand. We certainly do not start again from the passages on TV, from concrete and shopping centers, but we start from here: from San Felice sul Panaro to Medolla, from Cavezzo to Mirandola, from Sant'Agostino to Cento, from Finale Emilia to San Possidonio, from Gualtieri to Fabbrico, to Novellara, Carpi and Crevalcore - and I apologise for the municipalities that I did not mention - the citizens of Modena, Ferrara, Reggiani and Bologna were an example. Given the incredible acceleration of the last few hours, about which Minister Barca spoke, I hope that the State can do the same. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u98	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u99	Madam President, since the Minister has not mentioned this, I will talk about the earthquake in Emilia-Romagna: 42,000 displaced persons, 11 billion euros of damage, 2% of national GDP. One year after the earthquake, in the province of Modena, which had 90 percent of the damage, 32,000 applications were thought to come from the private individuals affected to obtain the contributions related to the 6 billion allocated by the Deposit and Loan Fund. After a year of procedures, 2,300 questions came in all. 392 were approved, with contributions of approximately EUR 5 million. In the heavy category E (the category dealing with the most severely damaged houses) nothing has yet been approved or delivered. Zero. Even worse is the situation for companies where, one year after the earthquake, we have only 30 practices presented for processing. The main causes are to be found, first of all, in the complication of the rain of orders and in the uncertainty about the percentages of the contributions actually paid (because no one, neither business nor private, knows how realistically the contribution will amount). At the end of June, however, there will be the end of the moratorium on loans and the deadlines for extensions, so there will be loans with a precedent of 5 billion euros to be paid, as well as the payment of utilities (gas, light, waste) and taxes and taxes to be incurred. Let's make a comparison with the situation at the Eagle. Less than a year after that earthquake - as for Emilia-Romagna - 3,500 apartments of the CASE project had already been delivered for a total of 19,000 inhabitants (final anti-earthquake houses), 1,300 Temporary housing modules and schools reopened all in the following school year. Because in L'Aquila, fellow senators, private buildings are to be covered by the reconstruction of a contribution of 100% of the costs incurred in the case of the main dwelling and 80% for the other types of buildings. In the case of common parts, however, 100% of the costs are covered by the State. The contribution concerns not only restructuring or reconstruction, but also security. In addition, citizens and businesses of the Eagle crater benefited from the suspension of payment of all taxes and contributions until 31 December 2011. Since 1 January 2012, payments have been resumed, but only 40% of the amount due in 120 monthly instalments. Other than kids and stepchildren. I say therefore to Commissioner Errani, who for the record in a year has never had the courtesy to meet, not once, MPs and senators of the earthquake zones, and to the Government (who I thought made proposals today, for example for the extension), that we are in a situation where contributions are not given, people do not know how much they can get out of their pockets and how much can be covered, they must pay everything in a condition of absolute uncertainty with respect to the future. Then I say: treat us like L'Aquila; treat us like L'Aquila; treat us like L'Aquila. I say it three times. Maybe the earthquake of Emilia-Romagna had the same economic treatment, covering the costs of restructuring the houses and extensions that L'Aquila had. I understand that Eagle may complain, but what should we say about this indecent treatment? What should we say to those who argued against the 3,000 houses delivered, to those who said that the Berlusconi government was wrong when in Emilia-Romagna, only in December were containers and temporary houses assembled. And will they be temporary for how long, given the slowness of reconstruction? Finally, although this issue cannot be dealt with in just a few minutes, there is the problem of anti-mafia legislation. I have already denounced the matter here. The fight against the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the Camorra is done by fighting crime, not by shutting down Modena companies that have been on the territory for decades, which are well wanted, on the basis of a theory of suspicion, based on inductions, probabilistic presumptions and links. We have a Constitution: we cannot disregard it. We cannot make companies fail and leave hundreds of workers at home in the earthquake zones in the absence of confirmed convictions or crimes, only on the basis of presumptions or perhaps relationships with someone who resides in the southern parts of our country. This is a fact that I intend to denounce because, in addition to the absurd treatment reserved for our territory, there is also this complication. Minister, I expected the government to at least intervene on this and make some commitments. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u100	Senator Broglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u101	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared a speech which I will give to the documents in part, because I do not think I can read it in full. After what I have heard in this House I feel obliged to make some clarifications and I am also very saddened: this should be the place of truth and not of falsehood. Until the other day I was the mayor of Crevalcore, one of the municipalities also mentioned by the representative of the 5 Star Movement, among the most affected in the area of the earthquake. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] Well, I want to point that out, in order to perform my duties as senator, I let myself fall from the office of mayor. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] So I don't double, triple, even if the commitment is double, triple and quadruple as that of President Errani was double, triple and quadruple, on this emergency. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that the winning weapon of our territories has been social cohesion. Who came to Crevalcore - Senator Davico came to our reality, and I am sorry for what he said, that I will then resume - he saw that there was no political opposition: there was an emergency to be resolved, and everyone collaborated, or rather almost everyone. Those who tell us today where we were wrong didn't see them in the fields, I didn't see them in the emergency. I have not seen them at our side and at the side of those peoples, and I say this with respect to the Eagle. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If we were to stop the car in Emilia-Romagna today, we would have to back off to reach L'Aquila. That is the fact. Where L'Aquila is after four years, we are after 11 months, and maybe even less. Then I do not understand - or I understand it very well - why even on tragedies such as the earthquake should be speculated from the political point of view. It is not true that those who have inexhaustible houses pay the IMU. They're lies. It is a coercion to say that those who live in a trailer pay the tax. That's not true at all. The suspension of taxes came with the first decree-law, No. 74 of 2012. It is not true that we do not know how much we take of the contributions: the contributions are 100%. The procedures are all working. GIOVANARDI (PdL). But where? That's not true. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, please don't interrupt Senator Broglia. BROGLIA (PD). That's all I'm saying. I then heard the 5 Star Movement make a series of statements that I find truly unbearable. To say that the State, the Region and the institutions have not been present on this earthquake is to lie knowing to lie. On the contrary, everyone knows how the institutions have been close to their citizens (it is explained in the intervention that I attach). Everyone knows how civil servants have worked these months to support the people. Everyone knows how many steps we have taken. We are already in the phase of reconstruction. It is true: there are many critical issues, but, please, let us make this the House of Truth and not the lies. I really ask everyone. Now I am going to read the speech which I will certainly not complete, because of the short time available, and which I therefore leave to the acts. I skip the first part, because I've already explained it. Eleven months ago Emilia was hit by an earthquake that is completely comparable to that of L'Aquila, due to intensity and magnitude. Only a series of negative and not random factors in the case of Abruzzo and positive and not random in the case of Emilia have meant that the dead in Emilia were 27 compared to the 30 of Abruzzo. We had already approved the anti-seismic law in 2008, with the criticism of the business and industrial world, because it seemed too heavy a burden for companies. Are they random? No. It is not a coincidence that those who caused the deaths in Emilia were 27 compared to 308, indeed 309, in Abruzzo. But this difference in the loss of human lives must not deceive us with regard to the gravity and extent of the Emilian areas affected by the earthquake. Evidence of this is the figures that are emerging on the extent of direct damage to industrial buildings and sheds, as well as the extent of indirect damage to machinery and warehouse stocks. Entire production chains of excellence have gone into crisis, such as biomedical, agro-food, precision mechanics, textiles and manufacturing. In addition to indirect damage, there is a serious risk of a drastic fall in turnover, with disastrous effects on employment and sharing in wealth and national GDP. In the face of the first emergency, I believe that the local, regional and national civil protection institutions have had an extraordinary response. A very special thanks must be given to two people on all of them. I am referring to the Head of the Civil Protection Department, Prefect Franco Gabrielli, whom I would also like to thank on behalf of and on behalf of the local institutions and all our peoples for their commitment, accountability and efforts throughout the emerging phase. The other person, whom I would like to define not the extraordinary commissioner but the extraordinary commissioner, who from the first day has led us strenuously towards the exit from the emergency and later in the phase of reconstruction, is the president of the Emilia-Romagna Region, Vasco Errani. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] If you've never come to institutional meetings, it's not my fault. GIOVANARDI (PdL). Never invited. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, you've already intervened. Please, Senator Broglia, complete your surgery. BROGLIA (PD). The speed with which they were able to take decisions, as well as their personal assumption of responsibility, flanked by the eighty tenacity of the mayors and the spirit of restart of our peoples, all of which, combined with an incredible mobilization of a system of civil protection, firefighters, police forces and generous volunteering from all parts of the country, has allowed us to close the acute emergent phase in very tight times and look to the future, certainly with concern, but with the certainty of a reconstruction that is starting in an orderly way, that will be long, but that has within itself a design made of certain and transparent rules for all. All this is not enough, however: we too know that the economic resources already allocated to private individuals, businesses and local authorities will not be sufficient and hence there is a first need not to take full account of the figures made available so far. Today we say so, after having made our own the concepts that Commissioner Errani has explained since the first day. First: not a euro more than what is needed and not a euro less than what we need, in a strong operation with local authorities. Local authorities that, as I said, if I may, have demonstrated through their civil servants, all of them, how wrong those who called them idlers were. Those buggers have played and have played for almost a year now a decisive role in giving timely answers. Secondly, we had to run, in order to cope with the emergency and to prepare for reconstruction, and we ran with the important support of the Government and Parliament, which we believe have done good but not exhaustive work. The two national laws, combined with the regional law for reconstruction, allowed Commissioner Errani to adopt the orders that produced tangible results, responding to three fundamental principles... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u102	Senator Broglia, I authorize you to hand over the rest of your intervention to the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u103	[[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u104	He's enlisted to speak Senator Razzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u105	Mr President, I would ask you to hand over my speech to the record, since the time available to my group is over.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u106	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I declare closed the debate on the information given by the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, Professor Barca, whom I thank again for his willingness. Three senators asked the Presidency to speak on items not on the agenda for three minutes each. I remind everyone that the sitting is due to end at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u109	BATTIST (M5S). Madam President, my fellow Senators, representative of the Government, in this brief speech I hope constructively that I will be able to clarify a situation which, as far as we are concerned, is inexplicable, unacceptable and paradoxically disrespectful of the forecasts contained in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. Without going too far, I immediately come to the subject of our interest, simply quoting the first Rule of the Rules of Procedure: two paragraphs, two different visions of the same institutional commitment. The first paragraph, in fact, is a guarantee of the prerogatives and rights that parliamentarians acquire for the sole fact of election or appointment, from the time of proclamation if elected, or from the communication of appointment if appointed. The second, on the other hand, simply assigns to the senators the duty to participate in the meetings of the Assembly and in the work of the Commissions. Rights and obligations. Active subjective situation (right) against passive subjective situation (obligation). Well, what we can see from these few weeks of parliamentary activity is an excessive imbalance between these two legal situations, a tendency to protect the first, the right, against inertia in the imposition of the second, the duty. What we want to say is that since the appointment (and we do not deliberately speak of election) for us parliamentarians there is a sort of acquisition of rights, of new prerogatives, while it is clear that the aforementioned duty to participate in the work of the Commission and the House is not fully transposed. I am not referring so much to the controversy surrounding the failure to establish the Commissions, on which it is clear that a more political than regulatory speech weighs, but the House seems to me to have begun its work, and if we are here to talk about it, it is clear how the House is constituted and convened. Yet, from a quick glance, it is equally evident that there are many, sometimes too many unoccupied jobs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , or better, occupied in law as vacant in duty. We believe that the permanent and unjustified absence in this House not only shows a lack of respect for the voters and their representatives who, on the contrary, are present and carry out with commitment and seriousness the tasks for which they have been called to sit in this House, but represent a lack of sense of responsibility, an excess of lightness for a role which, on the contrary, should have a significant weight and commitment. Let us try for a moment to think about the imbalance between the privileged position of parliamentarians and that of ordinary citizens and think for a moment about what happens outside of here, in the real world; what happens... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u110	Your time is over, Senator Baptist. Thank you. If you wish, you can attach the rest of the intervention to the documents. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u113	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I have asked to speak today because this is the last useful sitting before 28 April, which is World Day for the Victims of Asbestos. This Day was established to recall the harmful effects that asbestos causes worldwide, which now has millions of victims because of the reckless use that has been made of it for over a century. It is a real slaughter to the detriment of a multitude of workers who have been regarded as commodities. In summary, I would like to mention the data compiled by the International Labour Organization which shows that there are about 120,000 deaths per year, of which 3,000-4,000 are in Italy. Among other things, since these are pathologies with very long latency times, the peak is expected for 2020-2025. A National Asbestos Plan was recently presented by the Minister of Health of the current Government, on which he had been committed since the November 2012 National Government Conference on Asbestos held in Venice. This National Plan, which certainly has positive aspects, lacks any economic and financial indications, on the one hand to protect the victims of asbestos, on the other hand to intervene on asbestos pollution, on the disposal of asbestos waste and on health surveillance. I would like to remind the House of the victims of asbestos, but also that in the last parliamentary term this branch of Parliament unanimously adopted resolutions binding the Government on the three essential points that I mentioned and reported in the bill Act of the Senate No 8, tabled in this legislature and signed by over 30 senators not only pertaining to the Democratic Party. It calls for the protection of all the victims of asbestos (workers, but also those who are victims of asbestos for environmental and family reasons), for the census and disposal of asbestos waste and for health surveillance. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that we have tabled a proposal aimed at setting up a Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of deaths and accidents at work. I therefore call on all the senators, colleagues from all the groups, to sign up and participate in these initiatives which I believe are of justice and social equity. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u116	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put this speech in the wake of the motion that I, together with my colleagues from Modena, Reggio Emilia and Bologna, have tabled on the very serious emergency of landslides. Back in my city, in Parma, after having participated in the last session I received signals of strong concern from many mayors of the territory, in particular from the mayor of Tizzano, for the very serious situation of total blocking of the traffic in Val Parma for the interruption of the Massese road. It is a situation that leads to the blocking of economic activities, which has an extreme need for the declaration of state of emergency and the immediate provision of financial means because it is necessary to create a strap in order to overcome the landslide of the Massese road, as well as other consolidation interventions for which the funds are lacking. I therefore take advantage of the presence of the representative of the Government to underline this absolute emergency, hoping that there will be no interruption in the succession of governments because it is a question that needs to be answered, an emergency that is equally serious compared to other emergencies that have been mentioned in this House. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u117	As the agenda is over, the afternoon sitting will no longer take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u118	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-15.ana.u119	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 29 April, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.57 p.m.
