ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 23 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u5	As it is clear that the Senate is not in a quorum to decide, the vote on the Minutes of the sitting of 23 December will be postponed until the next sitting. However, I shall proceed to the reading of the communications to the House, which do not involve votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u9	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business of the Senate because I believe that the events of these days cannot leave the House indifferent, regardless of any further communications that this House should be informed of, and that we will respect for their content. It is clear that what has happened in these hours has been anything but surprising for this House. Obviously, the case of decrees and their correction and amendments is an ancient case, for which we could close the debate by saying: throw a stone who has no fault, and of faults all and many have it; however, I believe that, in the decree that was improperly renamed "save Rome," but that started from measures on local authorities and other interventions, the limit has been objectively exceeded. I do not intend here to make a nail or a press review, reading that the faults are discharged from one another or even from the Senate itself in particular, which would be in the eye of the viewfinder. I do not believe that the responsibility lies with a single branch of Parliament and I must also say to the Government, which seems to me to be downgraded, struck by this affair, which has always, at all times, the obligation, and not the power, to express its opinion on the amendments. Therefore, the amendments that have been adopted, even if they refer only to those approved in the Senate, do not appear as mushrooms: they are presented, discussed, evaluated by the Government, which must express its opinion. We had represented, even in a short way, informally and confidentially, the situation of total chaos to which we had frankly arrived. We could fuel the fire of controversy by also giving a reading, amendment by amendment, of certain measures: they seem almost dressed in pieces with the colors of Harlequin in order to hold together a majority, as well as the spread of territorial amendments, which is not unpublished, I repeat (my parliamentary experience pushes me to look at things realistically); however, also and above all in this measure, reading allows us to find, not only in the present-day majority - the signature of an amendment must necessarily be there - but also in the path, the strenuous will to maintain a majority on that measure, given that there are discussions and debates open even within the current majority, of which, as is well known, our Group has not been part since, precisely on the law of stability, we had recognized, especially in economic policy, errors of approach, wrong choices, that the final examination of the law of stability and its approval have not dissolved, if anything, strengthened, and that the decree that is then withdrawn has strengthened even more. In fact, as usual, queues, problems, events, some of which can be shared, of moralization of public spending, others less shareable, have been found in a congery of measures broken down. Now, the President-in-Office of the Council dumps the problem by saying that a reform of the legislation must be carried out. We take note of this, it is an issue on which we can always discuss. I would also like to remind you that in the last parliamentary term we launched the reform of the Stability Act, introducing a series of more stringent measures and instruments for verification and control, some of which are still to be implemented, which is why I urge ourselves, the Senate and the Presidency of which I am part of implementing those external verification instruments. In short, there are a whole series of measures that we have taken and which are obviously not enough. In the past we have seen everything and more. I have also witnessed - I do not know if the news were corresponding to the truth - the fact that the thousand-prorogate decrees, passing from the Chamber to the Senate, were sent to us (it would take six quotation marks) in the examination of other institutional palaces, which, by making a preliminary examination, invited, through the moral suasion, to cancel this or that norm. Then there have been judgments of the Constitutional Court over the years that have put clear stakes. Obviously, all of us as legislators have not fully respected those judgments, but I also want to say that probably, having exceeded the measure this time, the interventions are quite bland, because in fact many measures have been transferred to the'milleproroghe'. I would now like to say that our Group will be very strict, because if we open a season of more formal rigour in the examination of the names - and it is well to come, because the judgments of the Court, the rules passed, the duties incumbent on all of us already on this - we will be very determined. I have not yet been able to examine the thousand-pronged measure which the Council of Ministers launched yesterday and which we will be examining from the next few days. I see that some tax rules (additional IRPEF and more) would not have been included (and how could it have been, moreover, in the thousand-pronged decree?), but I want to see other norms, concerning Rome Capital, with what appropriateness and with which instruments they were inserted, as well as many other subjects. The thousand-pronged decree, which has also been the subject of a very generous use in the past, must be limited to shifting dates of norms, compliances and events that are due to expire and that are postponed, for needs considered indifferent, covered by the principle of institutional character on necessity and urgency. We will read it line by line, as we must always do, this time with greater attention, taking advantage of the few hours of peace in parliamentary work that, as you can see, never stop. Today's sitting is formal and is intended to take note of these announcements; however, I think that we should leave some reflection to the record, because even the Government, in wishing to reform the legislation, reform in the meantime the activity with which it evaluates, also the Government, the amendments, on which it gives opinions. If then the government is in a state of necessity and urgency for which this or that city has to meet needs, say so. Parliamentary transformation, in fact, and the waterline - alas! - they are ancient, despicable and often wrong practices, but you have the courage to admit them. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that the matter raises a whole range of issues (and there are references to them, which we have read in the newspapers and on which I believe that the House will be informed afterwards), in compliance with all the institutions, and mainly with the maximum institution of the Republic. As for President Napolitano, several times, when some consideration has been made about the judgments and his speeches, I believe that the long parliamentary experience leads the President to consider acceptable respectful assessments and discussions. Moreover, we are already reading about the events on which it will be lawful for everyone, taking note of the calls and invitations, making reflections, taking legislative initiatives and political assessments; I repeat, they will be very respectful, but we live in a free democracy, where all the institutions participate in the debate and we too will reserve the right to express our opinion. Having said that, Mr President, in conclusion, I want you to remain in the proceedings and be shocked at the way in which you proceed. I could ironize by saying that, if there were other types of government, even if they were sometimes criticized for this or that provision, for this or that amendment, I do not know whether there would have been this additional de facto examination, this postponement of a few weeks, this use of the one thousandprorogation partial decree. Perhaps other governments, which were far less tormented and were prevented from issuing decrees and urgent measures, would have been subjected to exemplary measures and the measures would have been returned to Parliament or prevented. The comparison between theoretical hypotheses is difficult to achieve, but it lets me imagine that in other contexts, with other governments, this "generosity" would not have been there. The President of the Council talks about further reforms: do what you have to do. We made a lot of them. I mentioned that of the law of stability, but also that of bicameralism, the number of parliamentarians and many issues that then affect legislation, such as double readings, the complexity of legislative activity. These themes were also discussed. Then others expressed themselves in a contrary way, with democratic instruments, and the country serves a delay of which some of us can calmly say not to bear responsibility, because they indicated roads and approved norms. Then, according to the rules of democracy, those norms were not approved by a referendum, but if the country is seven years old (or perhaps even more) of delay on certain sides that also condition the legislative activity, we do not blame it because we did our part. Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. As you can see, I have respected the spirit of this reflection in a loud voice. Now we will take advantage of these few days of truce to read line by line the'milleproroghe' and that rigorous examination that must be carried out, if not others, our Group will certainly do so, so that some maximum institution will be spared some further disrespect. We will be watching in the interests of democracy and Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would remind Senator Gasparri that you have done your part, in terms of violating Article 77 of the Constitution with the decrees. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We could make a very long list of decrees here today. I would also like to point out that until a month ago Senator Gasparri was part of this majority and of this Government and I could mention here some shining examples of totally uneven decrees, which contain rules that are certainly not indifferent and urgent. One of these decrees, in this House, we have renamed it "decreto monstrum": it seems to me that it was the so-called decree of doing, made up of an absolutely incredible list of rules that were racked up and totally uneven. Mr President, you are fully aware of all this: so we all welcome the intervention of the President of the Republic and hope that, from now on, we will have a very respectful application of Article 77 of the Constitution and the various decisions of the Constitutional Court, including the most recent one. Today it seems that the Senate is guilty: this House could give as many examples of the House of Deputies, but I do not believe that this is the game of democracy. The problem is not this: the problem is in the handle and comes from the fact that frequently, indeed very often, the Government - I say it with great frankness: even the one in office, like many previous governments - abuses the decree of urgency and introduces in the text of these decrees norms that are uneven and that are certainly neither indifferent nor urgent. Very often, then, what happens also comes from the fact that the rapporteurs - I say this very frankly - have rules that do not come from this House, but from the Government itself and therefore the situation worsens at the time of conversion. I have previously taken the example of the so-called monstrum decreto and I would like to recall here, as I did yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders, what happened on the occasion of the decree on feminicide and gender violence. The problem came not only from the fact that the Chamber of Deputies transmitted the provision to the Senate at the last minute, so much so that the text was absolutely non-modifiable, including norms absolutely unrelated to the main object of the decree; in that case the same Government already at the time of the transmission of the decree to the Chambers, had included absolutely heterogeneous norms, such as that on the theft of copper or those related to strategic works. Among other things, politically as well, this was a very questionable operation, because the rules on gender violence, which concern such a serious and serious phenomenon towards women, have been combined with other rules that could have been placed in other decrees. So, in that case, in the Senate we found ourselves in the situation of not being able to do any work of removing spurious norms, because the decree-law was about to expire and at that point it was in fact unchangeable. We have constantly referred to these problems by proposing to the House questions for a preliminary ruling which called for compliance with Article 77 of the Constitution, but which, as you know, Mr President, have all been rejected on a timely basis: we could make a very long list of them. Therefore, from now on we very much hope that there will be only a very strong penalty, but I also hope that the Government, when issuing the decree-laws, will abide by Article 77 of the Constitution. As far as we are concerned (I also hope that this, at this point, is the will of the majority in this House), we will no longer be able to consider constitutional decree-laws which, from that point of view and from that point of view, are not constitutional. This will concern first and foremost the measures announced in the so-called "multiprorogation" decree, which, unfortunately, traditionally, has always contained a certain unevenness. We hope that from this time on we will stick strictly to the rules and that, therefore, the withdrawal of Decree-Law No 126, in homage to the call of the President of the Republic (i.e. Article 77 of the Constitution), was not only an escapism, because - perhaps - there were no numbers to convert it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue to give the floor to those who ask for it. However, before continuing, since the withdrawal of the decree-law on the agenda of today's sitting is being taken for granted, I would like to inform you that the Conference of the Leaders, meeting yesterday afternoon, took note of the government's waiver of the conversion of Decree-Law No 126 of 31 October 2013. Therefore, when the subject of the sitting is missing, no votes will be taken today and the timetable already approved is confirmed, as well as communications which the President will make on 2 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u16	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, as is right on occasions like these, it is the opposition colleagues who are more entitled to sound their voices. They have done so - I am glad to say so - with great composure, but recalling constitutional reflections that I would like to belong to the Senate, regardless of the position of majority or opposition. Friend Gasparri rightly recalls the utmost rigour in terms of the homogeneity of matter. He's right, but to a certain extent, to understand the story we've been through and about which Senator Gasparri has been measured reporter. How do we control homogeneity when the measure is, at the start, mixed with regional finance? It is not a joke of bad taste, but look at the title of the measure, then called journalistic "save Rome": it refers to public spending in various regions. It becomes therefore very difficult to operate for the presidency of the Senate, for its officials, but also for us, partisan men, of different groups, I would say whether placed in majority and if placed in opposition. Therefore, I have the impression that there is a problem that goes through our parliamentary history and that we have been trying to hide a little over the last fifteen years. In 2000 the Constitution changed: Senator Gasparri and I didn't like how he changed, others greeted it instead as a great victory of the "federalism." On the basis of that Constitution, parliamentary work lost that constitutional thread which was the distinction between territorial finance and public spending. Let us tell the truth, at the end, or at the last tail, of the budgetary season: what we call "public expenditure" is to a great extent not State expenditure in the strict sense, that is, the Ministries, the traditional circuit, once, of finance: it is mainly territorial finance. The same is true for what is improperly judged to be parliamentary lobbyism: it takes place with categories and modalities (I do not morally pronounce myself) quite different from those for which governments until the end of the eighties allocated a certain budget post to the parliamentary passage in the two chambers. In this respect, even when we moved from the financial law to the law of stability we did not make any regulatory reform. So, what does this repetitive gargarism mean to say that it is necessary to be rigorous in terms of homogeneity? Here is announced the presentation of the decree called milleproroghe. Senator Gasparri is in opposition, I am in the majority, and as it is right he has already documented himself while I, at least until New Year's Eve, do not even want to read it. In any case, it is a text one thousandprorogues omnibus (and not only in this legislature), as in this legislature others have been: someone has remembered the so-called decree of doing and the so-called decree Bray on cultural goods, in which we say that Pompeii and Florence beat the other deposits of cultural goods. It is a problem that we have, and we cannot make it all fall under the moral ethics of Article 77 of the Constitution. So our Group, today in the majority - but it may be a matter of detail - has tried to help solve this huge problem, thankful to the opposition colleagues for providing today's opportunity for a loud reflection. There is a certain sensitivity to the overlapping of issues of territorial finance over national politics, the impossibility of establishing boundaries, distinctions and stakes, regardless of who the President of the Senate is. Yesterday, Mr President, you made very sensible points at the Conference of the Heads of Group, to which are added those of the Head of State, who have been made clear on several occasions, who are even of respect and affection for the Parliamentary institution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u18	Senator Carraro can intervene for a very short time, having already intervened Senator Gasparri on behalf of his Group. This is a small derogation that I grant. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u19	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, thank you very much, and I will try to be very brief. I would just like to point out on a practical level that I do not want us to start the wrong way on 8 January with the good words we are now saying that we will do well in the future. I would remind you that on 8 January 2014, the House scheduled the measure on the IMU, which contains the reform of the Bank of Italy. I would like to inform the Offices and the President of the following. In countries such as England, France and Germany, the Central Bank belongs to the State. The measure provides that the Bank of Italy has a different nature in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u20	Senator Carraro, we cannot anticipate the debate on the Bank of Italy now. When the relevant measure is on the agenda, we will be able to talk about it. Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: PRESIDENT. - The debate is It will be the task of the President, with the cooperation of the parliamentarians, then of the Presidents of the Commissions and finally of the Offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u23	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, we did not oppose your decision not to proceed to the vote on the verification of the quorum and the strictly regulatory procedure, because we did not intend to do so in a obstructive manner because there was no reason. We wanted, however, to remain in the proceedings the summons today so strange and surreal, of which we take note. I will try to maintain the composure of which Senator Comrade spoke, but it is really difficult. We hear talk of bewilderment, of transformation, of waterline; we have heard - I am sorry to say - criticisms and disputes also from my colleague De Petris, but the question that arises spontaneously is always the same: Where were you? Where were you? Where were you? That's the question you have to ask yourself. You were also guilty of pursuing the same methods in all these years and of continuing to make the same mistake, although you were aware, despite the judgments of the Constitutional Court and despite the fact that it was written. This is the thing that really makes us horrible. Who can throw the first stone, asked Senator Gasparri: fifty senators here the first stone can throw it because they have no fault in this sense; on the contrary, we were the only ones to denounce in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, from the first day, the practice of decree of uneven urgency, not urgent and not necessary. I would like to point out that, although all the political forces present have agreed that the decree in question actually presents profiles of unconstitutionality, so much so as to bring the same Presidency of the Commission to present an agenda to say "never again," immediately after came the famous IMU-Bank of Italy decree, on which the 1st Commission expressed its opposition, declaring its unconstitutionality. Once you arrived at the Chamber, you voted - you voted, I would like to say - on the constitutionality of the decree. I would also like to mention the appeal of the President of the Republic, who was read yesterday in the Chamber of Deputies and whom we now know. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now I'm going to read about it, Senator Crimes. CRIMI (M5S). Thank you, President. But I wanted to make two thoughts at once. When we read yesterday's call from the Head of State, the first thing we thought was that the address was wrong, in the sense that perhaps that call should not reach us, but those parties that in recent months have continued in the same logic as the past years. We also believe that this call should be addressed to the Government fundamentally: in our opinion, it contains a very important omission, that is not to recall the Government to the decree according to the Constitution. One forgets this and only Parliament is called into question in the process of converting decree-laws, when, for example - let us remember - the decree on feminicide came to Parliament's attention with provisions of all kinds, which had nothing to do with feminicide. Finally, Mr President - and this is a request that I make to you - I would not like, given what I heard yesterday in the political debate, that this was an excuse, an excuse to go to touch the parliamentary regulations and try to make it even easier for the government to arrive with acceptable decrees, with an increasingly succubus Parliament of the legislation of the Executive. I would not like this to be an excuse, as it seemed from the messages arrived yesterday, to put a hand in parliamentary regulations, not to give Parliament its role as a legislative body, but, on the contrary, to suppress it in relation to the Government. That is why I am asking you, President - and it is an invitation that I make to you, as the guarantor of this House - not to allow an amendment to the Regulations that bring this House to be a mere ratificationer of government decrees; that what is so far illegal should not be allowed. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u24	For the truth of the facts, Senator Crimi, I would like to remind you that amendments have been adopted to include additional articles from all groups, including the 5 Star Movement. So, regardless of merit, that's it. [[Applause from Senator Rossi Luciano.]] CRIMI (M5S). There is no doubt that additional amendments will be tabled, Mr President, and that amendments will be tabled to add additional articles, but on this subject, be careful. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The DIA theme in Malpensa? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] CRIMI (M5S). It was an agenda, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We followed the debate, it was an additional amendment that was turned into an agenda, but I do not want to go into it. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, we have followed this debate; if I say that this is the truth of the facts, take this into account. Excuse me, but all the groups have approved their amendments. This is a fact which must form a basis. Period.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u27	CASINI (PI). Mr President, it seems to me that your clarification is correct. The reality is very simple; Article 77 of the Constitution clearly regulates and limits the decree-laws to measures which have their own extraordinaryness, necessity and urgency. Over the years, all successive governments, of different colors, have basically used the train of these decrees to provide for ordinary legislation with a preferential lane. Since there is a powerful frustration in the parliamentary classrooms, which not only concerns the opposition groups, but often also the majority parliamentarians, who feel even more expropriated from their point of view, to these trains improperly set up by the governments, have succeeded the wagons that have been added, often extraneous on the subject, in Parliament: from opposition groups, to facilitate the process of approving the decrees, by majority parliamentarians, to exercise their right, and who has more, more put them. Nobody's gonna need a dumper. I have been President of the House and I have rejected many times because of the extraneousness of the matter amendments. However, although many have rejected them, I have probably improperly, with the lack of opposition, facilitated the approval. Why? Because you cannot even think of downloading to the President of the Senate or the House an anomaly of the legislative process that concerns everyone. This is so true that the Presidents of the Republic, twenty or thirty years ago, never fully exercised their prior union on the decree of urgency, because then the decree of urgency was really such. In recent years the Presidents of the Republic have had to play this role of preventive control because they have noticed the abuse of the instrument of the decree of urgency and the Presidents of the Assemblies have also carried out this action of supplement a little' improper, trying to deforest. That's the reality if we want to look her in the face. As far as the specific matter is concerned, I am a strong supporter of the Letta government. I am convinced that it serves the country, but since we must have a minimum of truth and honesty among ourselves, we admit that this was a false step of the Government, which did well to renounce the decree. We are convinced that he will learn from this story so as not to make mistakes on other passages of parliamentary life, but it is honest to acknowledge that it was a false step and that, unfortunately, both the Senate and the House of Deputies have tried not to mitigate the false step of the Government, but to make it even more false and wider. That means taking responsibility. I must say, Mr Gasparri, that I have fully grasped your words and appreciated your sense of measure because, knowing what other governments have done, I have seen that you have avoided treading your hand, and you have done well. I remember, in fact, that decrees arrived whose content was not even known, which was known a week later. You know what I'm talking about: the Ministry of Economy under management... Stop: let's spread a pitiful veil. No one can throw the first stone and the President of this House has done well - on which a responsibility that is far wider and more collective cannot be improperly discharged; each will take its part, but we must have the sense of the measure - to remember that the opposition groups have also competed with proposals for extra-material amendments to this general wheelchair which has been put in place. I hope that the right assessments will be made for the future from this point of view. A false step by the government does not compromise a long path that the country needs, because the risk is chaos. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u30	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I believe that this affair and the useful and appropriate withdrawal of the decree-law by the Government, with the call of the President of the Republic, have stimulated an important reflection in Parliament; but we would be hypocrites if we did not detect the maximum degeneration of the process of decree of urgency, together - let me be allowed - the degeneration of the law of stability because its perimeter is established by a law, modified only in 2009, to arm that legislative path. We have also seen what the law of stability has become this year. It is therefore useless for the institutional system and the political system to continue to set up stakes which then overwhelm themselves in such a short time because there is at the root the fundamental problem of the difficulty of ordinary provision. The push and pressure on extraordinary legislative vehicles, such as decree-laws and the law of stability, which have a certain date of completion of the work, lead the political system, anxious to give answers not of system but sectoral, to load these completely improper content tools. This is the most obvious symptom of a profound crisis in the political system of recent years, which has found it difficult to identify ordinary solutions and, therefore, to give Parliament a way to express itself appropriately and to exercise its function as a general guideline through ordinary and system legislation. In any case, I believe that in this sitting, which is a bit of self-consciousness and atonement for faults, everyone must assume his load and try not to give himself the absolution to fall back into sin immediately afterwards. It is true that Parliament has many faults also because it has the means of declaring inadmissibility. I recall, in fact, Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and Rule 96-bis of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which provide that in the preliminary phase rules that do not meet the requirements of necessity and urgency can be removed. This instrument should be transversal and institutional and, instead, has been inappropriately used as a majority instrument. We should try to use it in the appropriate way, having it already available, to filter out what might be an improper use of the decree by the Government. There is no doubt that the perimeter of emendability is defined by the content of the decree-law that the Government brings to the Chambers. Other colleagues have said this: when a measure is called "interventions located in the territory," being a country made up of 8,000 bell towers and many territories, in itself the scope of the decree becomes infinite and inappropriate. I think, therefore, that the Chambers must use very rigorously the instrument of prior assessment of the coherence of the decree-law with the prerequisites of necessity and urgency. I would also like, since we are here, to draw attention to the risk prevention that I believe is being foreshadowed. In the meantime, this prevention must avoid the return to a terrible practice that has been removed from a historic decision of the Constitutional Court in 1996: I am referring to the repetition of the decree-laws. When the first Prodi Government was established in 1996, there was a huge mass of decrees-laws that had settled so many small issues, which was reset by the Constitutional Court. Today we are faced with a decree-law of which we still do not know the contents, which not only risks not to fall within the third paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, that is, in the definition of the relationships born from the decree-law in force, but that repeats the contents of a decree-law that, whatever the reason (withdrawal, decadence, refusal of conversion), has not been converted and that the Constitutional Court affirms cannot be repeated. So this is where the Senate will first have to assess the prerequisites of necessity and urgency, when we are called to do so. The other point I would like to mention to Parliament and the Government is that of the immediate publication. Today we learn from newspapers that will be published in the Official Journal - perhaps - a decree-law adopted by the Council of Ministers on 13 December. Beyond the content, we are already outside Article 77 of the Constitution; I therefore believe that if Parliament does not want to be subjected to calls, even heavy and embarrassing (for some of us, even humiliating), of the Head of State, it must rigorously exercise its prerogatives in advance, because the condescension to the opportunity from time to time that the majority and the Government find themselves in the derogation from the rules, then leads us into situations of serious difficulty. In my opinion, on the other hand, respect for the rules we have laid down also induces virtues in the exercise of political and governmental function; the rules are there for that, for a coherent and orderly exercise of institutional powers. I therefore believe that this reflection has been very useful, but that it must serve us in a concrete way, immediately after the recovery, to exercise with rigour and consistency the parliamentary powers.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u33	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I will be very brief. I very much agree with the speeches already made by my fellow Members, on which I will add nothing more than the reference to some general considerations. We are in this delicate situation because a fundamental principle has failed for me, that of strict compliance with the written rules: it has been abused over the years, but also in recent times, of the power to interpret the norm extensively, and at a time when this practice is constantly assumed without changing the written norm it is clear that the practice of enlargement becomes unstoppable. It is therefore necessary, as stated yesterday in the Conference of Leaders, to amend the Rules of Procedure, because such a change, with new written rules, establishes firm points in the action of the House and the other bodies that may be regulated. I therefore urge, Mr President, that the agenda of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure be put on the agenda of the proposals that many Members - some of whom are extremely experienced and of great political importance - have already made, and we have also tabled proposal No 19. Let me also say, Mr President, that the responsibilities here are not the same: those with the greatest weight have more responsibilities; we cannot take them all to the same extent. It is clear that all of us in this House share this responsibility, but it is equally clear, ladies and gentlemen, that those who weigh the most have greater responsibilities and also the obligation to remedy immediately a situation that is becoming unsustainable. [[Applause from Senators Carraro, Compañera and Zin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u36	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, chance has led today to the Senate Assembly, which had been convened on a purely formal agenda, to open a debate of great interest on a matter which contains the substance of our work, namely the functioning of Parliament and the exercise of its legislative function. I too, knowing Senator Gasparri for a long time, was impressed by the extent of his intervention, which I believe is due to the circumstances and also to a knowledge on his part of the history of the last two decades, of how and when things got complicated. I particularly appreciated the arguments of Senator Casini and Senator Lanzillotta, who put the problem in focus. They have proposed such a rich and delicate subject that I think it might be useful, Mr President, for a session of the Senate to discuss this subject, in which we can reflect extensively on the legislative function, also in order to meet Senator Crimi's recommendations. When Senator Crimi claims the newness of the 5 Star Movement Group and the presence in Parliament only from this legislature, there is a simplification, of course: things, yes, are so, in the sense that theirs is a new Group, but the story of how the legislative process has degenerated is long and, only to understand and respect the truth, should be described and analysed in its entirety. Understanding it well, we could find the right remedies more easily. I must point out, for the sake of honesty, that we had a moment when the urgent decree took a rhythm that was previously unknown. It was the moment when a Government publicly declared that Italy was governable only with decrees-laws and ordinances of civil protection. That was the moment when a balance broke; then things went down and evolved negatively. I must acknowledge President Grasso's sensitivity with which, in recent months since the beginning of the parliamentary term, he has always stressed the sensitivity of the matter. I believe there is now a duty for us, Mr President: to identify the remedies in a serious, non-propagandistic and non-demagogic way, which will, of course, partly be on the back of the government. The Government, Senator Gasparri, says a popular saying, is always responsible, even for the rain: if it rains, Government thief. But he is not the only one responsible and institutional loyalty must tell us exactly who belongs to all the responsibilities. Failure to update our regulations is the responsibility of the Senate, not the Government. The regulations must be amended, Senator Crimes, not in order to adversely affect Parliament, but in order to give Parliament the opportunity to make good laws. CRIMI (M5S). Let's hope so. ZANDA (PD). If we do not amend Regulations that date back to the time when the Constitution was different, then we cannot ask Parliament to function properly and to arrive profitably at the result. The amendment of the regulations, Mr President, is our responsibility. Senator Gasparri, as Senator Casini mentioned, Parliament is also responsible for his actions. Giving the government responsibility for an amendment tabled, signed and supported by a senator and voted by the Senate Assembly frankly seems exaggerated to me. We are responsible for the hundreds and hundreds of amendments that we have tabled without having examined them before with regard to their relevance to the measure, just as it is true that the Government makes a mistake when it presents heterogeneous measures; a serious error, I add. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Senator Crimes, those who speak to her often denounced him in the past legislatures; he denounced him by the majority and the opposition. Even here the level must be used very carefully. Now, I think that the legislative process can evolve if each of us assumes our responsibilities, including the opposition, because we can do the opposition in many ways: we can do the opposition without any hesitation in the measures of the Government; but when the opposition even gets to affect the functioning of the institutions then it is no longer a good opposition. CRIMI (M5S). It's the only tool we have! ZANDA (PD). The democratic, constitutional and parliamentary system must be defended by the majority and the opposition, and we must acknowledge the democratic forces of our country, since the end of the war, since the first years of the Republic, that we have always defended the democratic system. The majority defended him and the opposition defended him. [[Senator Marton's comments.]] It has never happened in our Republic, in the years that have made it great and that have made our democracy strong, that the opposition undermined the democratic system and the parliamentary system. I believe that the opposition should also pay attention to this call at this time. There are limits, which are the foundation on which our Republic rests limits that give us the freedom we enjoy and that we want our children to enjoy, and that we want to maintain so that we can enjoy the opposition, but we ask the opposition that on these issues participate in the growth of the democratic system and do not try to profit from its destruction. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u37	I now read the letter of the President of the Republic of 27 December 2013. Dear Presidents, the procedures for carrying out the parliamentary process of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 126 of 31 October 2013, concerning urgent financial measures in favour of regions and local authorities and interventions located in the territory - during which were added to the original text of Decree 10 articles, for a total of 90 paragraphs - lead me to propose to your attention the need to verify with the utmost rigour the admissibility of amendments to the bills of conversion. Several calls have been made in recent legislation by me - in the presence of different governments and in the relationship with several Presidents of the Chambers - and already by President Ciampi to the need to respect the principles relating to the characteristics and contents of the emergency measures laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution and the Constitutional Implementing Law No 400 of 1988. As is well known, these principles have been reiterated in several judgments of the Constitutional Court. In particular, in judgment No 22 of 2012 the Court noted that "the inclusion of heterogeneous norms with respect to the object or the purposes of the decree breaks the logical-juridical link between the assessment made by the Government of the urgency of the provision and the provisional measures by force of law," an assessment made under its own responsibility and submitted to the judgment of the Head of State when issuing. The Court concludes by stating that "the necessary homogeneity of the decree-law must also be observed by the law of conversion" and reserves the right to annul the provisions introduced by Parliament in violation of the above criteria. Precisely following this judgment on February 22, 2012, I sent to the Presidents of the Houses a letter in which I warned that in the face of the abnormity of the outcome of the conversion procedure I could no longer renounce to avail myself of the right of postponement, although I knew that this could have led to the forfeiture of the entire decree law, not having the option of partial postponement. I also expressed the view that in this case a partial recurrence was possible taking into account the reasons underlying the request for a review. The Constitutional Court itself, moreover, since judgment n. 360 of 1996, has set as a limit the prohibition of recurrence the identification of new reasons of necessity and urgency. I therefore renew in the same spirit of institutional cooperation the invitation contained in that letter to comply, when assessing the admissibility of amendments relating to the decrees law, with criteria of close relevance to the specific subject matter of the decrees and their purpose, including by adopting - if deemed necessary - the appropriate amendments to the parliamentary regulations. With heartfelt cordiality Giorgio Napolitano is.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u38	I communicate that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Vice President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for Constitutional Reforms: - Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 149 of 28 December 2013, abolishing direct public funding, provisions for the transparency and democracy of parties and discipline of voluntary contribution and indirect contribution in their favour - (1213).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u39	I also communicate that the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has communicated that, at its meeting on 19 December 2013, it has verified that the following elections are not contestable and, competing in the elected the qualities required by the law, has declared them valid: for the Region of Molise, Ulysses Di Giacomo and Roberto Ruta. I acknowledge this communication and declare these elections validated.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u42	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, thanks to your intervention, I would like to draw the attention of many Members, those present and those who are not here today but have actively participated in the legislative process of converting Balduzzi Decree-Law into law. But above all, I would like to make this very heartfelt appeal to you, Mr President, for us to be able to remember, in order to remain in the proceedings of this branch of Parliament, such as the Senate, on the occasion of the conversion of the Balduzzi decree, that it made a courageous, difficult and highly responsible choice, which held together the reasons of science and the reasons of humanity. Why do I need to ask you today, Mr President, to speak on this matter? Because following a sort of horda of communication and the mud machine, which we have often seen operating in this country, the parents of the children treated in the hospital in Brescia have felt the need to present to the press the clinical results, based on the reports and certifications carried out at the hospitals where these poor children are normally treated, so to offer the institutions an element of truth and knowledge, which obviously no one intends to deepen, listen or certify. Parents, in their desperation, draw the attention of those who should consider whether what happened at the hospital in Brescia is regular or not and, in addition to that, whether what was given through this care to their children can be considered dangerous or not. I recalled the text of the Senate, President Grasso, because precisely in that text there was the answer to all this: the obligation to deepen and experiment and the right to care. I believe that in the various passages between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, as well as the conversions of the decrees-laws have accustomed us to see, there is always something that intervenes: the amendments and interventions of the lobby, sometimes supported by Titus and sometimes by Caius, by this or by that Parliamentary Group. In this case, the spectre behind these children and their families is called the pharmaceutical lobby. We must respond to this, out of respect for those citizens who ask us to do so. Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u43	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-158.ana.u44	The Senate will meet again in public session on Thursday 2 January 2014, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) Happy New Year to all: see you in a year! The sitting was closed at 12.12 noon.
