ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 5 September.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed at 9.55 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u6	Let's resume our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u9	SIBILIA (PdL). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:57 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u13	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law Nos. 888 and 889. I would remind you that in yesterday's sitting the examination of the articles of both drafts of law was completed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u16	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the picture that emerges from the examination of the general state statement for the financial year 2012 and the adjustment for the financial year 2013 still photographs a crisis situation, with shadows, which, moreover, come from afar, and some light. The country, because of its structural problems, is still struggling to reverse course. The rigorous budgetary policy launched in the last parliamentary term, in particular by the Monti Government, a policy that imposed sacrifices on Italians, but which also allowed us to get out of the excessive deficit procedure initiated in 2009 by the European Commission and which should enable us to achieve the medium-term objective of structural balance (we hope, however, that next year, during the Italian Presidency, we will be able to reason on certain European constraints), has begun to give its first results, but if we really want to get out of this tunnel and finally review the light we must adopt measures that are not... (Brussio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Fravezzi. I would ask Members whether they can lower their voices in this House. Thank you. Please, Senator Fravezzi. FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I was saying, we need to take measures that are not only partial and emergent, but structural. However, the economic measures adopted since 2011 have had a major impact on the state budget. In fact, if we carefully analyze the indices for the financial year 2012, we find a partial improvement of some balances obtained precisely thanks to the maneuvers of correction of the public accounts for 2012. Although GDP has fallen by 2.4%, net debt has fallen to 47.6 billion, i.e. 3% of GDP, compared with 3.8 percent at the end of last year's year, since - it is worth repeating - it has allowed our country to get out of the excessive deficit procedure. The primary surplus was positive, equal to 2.5%, an improvement of 1.3 percentage points compared to 2011. Of course, public debt has increased, reaching a significant figure of €1,988.66 billion. It should be noted, however, that in the euro area only Italy and Germany showed large primary surpluses. So 2012 was actually a very tough year for the whole country. We must then add to these figures others which clearly highlight a socio-economic reality which is still very uncomfortable, as has already been pointed out in the DEF that we had the opportunity to examine a few months ago. Domestic demand, in fact, has fallen, the unemployment rate has risen, consumer prices, compared with an almost unchanged level of wages, have risen by 3.3%, the propensity to save consumer households in the first quarter of 2013 has been 9.3% (up 0.9 percentage points compared to the previous quarter) and the tax pressure has stood at 44 percent of GDP, almost three points above the average of the other countries of the euro area. The latter fact, in particular, must make us reflect on the need, moreover, in these days announced by the President of the Council Letta, for an intervention aimed at the revision of our tax system in order to lighten its burden on work, business and families. It is certainly not easy, even because of the significant territorial differences that have been determined over time with regard to the levy on households and businesses. I am referring in particular to the additional regional and municipal ones, which today also speak of some newspapers, whose rates differ greatly from Region to Region and from Municipality to Municipality. We therefore hope that action in this area will be taken as soon as possible, precisely to shift and rebalance the tax burden on labour, perhaps making it weigh more heavily on the so-called income. It is a panoramic photograph that of our country gives the measures today to our examination (and I refer to the statement). But we all know very well that photography is a static image, taken at a particular moment; but now, at that shot, others are following, offering new images and in many cases even better. In fact, the Government and Parliament have put in place a number of important measures that are changing and will significantly change that image I have spoken about. To name just a few, I remember the decree that has unblocked the payments of the public administration and, according to the note received from the press office of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, updated to 4 September, turns out that they have been made available to the public debt institutions as much as 17,9 billion euros, (almost 90 percent of the 20 billion allocated with the decree-law n. 35 of 2013) and that they have provided to pay their dues for an amount of 7,2 billion euros, that is, 36 percent of the amount allocated. Compared to the previous update, which dates back to August last, the monitoring showed in a short time an increase of 2.2 billion in the payments made to the creditors. We hope, of course, that the Government will do even more to speed up payments and above all - and we have started a debate on this in the 5th Commission - that further debts will not occur in the future, that the causes will be understood and that specific legislative action will prevent the various local authorities or the central administration from accumulating other debts for the future. Moreover, as we know, Decree-Law No. 102 of 2013, issued by the Government on 31 August 2013, provides for the payment of another 7.2 billion euros of the additional 10 billion to the 20 already allocated in the course of this year; this will result for creditor companies in greater benefits in terms of investment, production and consumption: in new incentives for credit policy. For these reasons, we of the For Autonomies Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, aware of the fact that this is an exceptional measure for a country in severe liquidity crisis, voted in favour of the amendment tabled by the Government in the Commission on the bill to settle the budget, aimed at increasing by an additional 18 billion the maximum amount of the issuance of public bonds, bringing them to 98 billion total, as we believe that this amendment will allow, given the still sustainable interest rates, to guarantee the financing of the fund for public administration debts, to be able to count on a greater VAT revenue and to face the first months of 2014 with a sufficient liquidity reserve that will allow us to start the first steps towards economic recovery. I still remember the decree of the doing, which we approved before the summer break, whose positive real effects we will be able to evaluate only in the next year, on the occasion of the examination of the statement and the settling of 2013. Just as we will be able to assess the effects of Decree-Law No 102, which provides for a series of very long-awaited measures, such as the refinancing of the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni, a further safeguard of workers from the raising of the rights of access to retirement (so-called exodus), measures in support of households on mortgages for the first home and rents and the definitive abolition of the first IMU instalment due for 2013 for the main houses, as well as for agricultural areas. This abolition should mark the first step towards overcoming property taxation in line with the programmatic statements made by the President of the Council Letta during the debate for the vote of confidence in the Government. The game of those who want to take credit for this choice is therefore ridiculous - I would say - because it was voted by everyone, giving confidence to this Government. Obviously we are still waiting to know the structure of the new tax that will absorb IMU and TARES, but we hope that it will be lighter overall and, above all, that it is inspired by a federalist logic that gives the opportunity to the municipalities to manage it with great flexibility, as happened, in some ways, with the old ICI. Despite recent OECD projections that give Italy as the only country of the G7 still in recession, we of the For the Autonomous Group are confident. We are convinced that the work of this Government of necessity and service will make us engage the recovery that is emerging in the eurozone, a recovery confirmed also by EUROSTAT, which certified for the second quarter a GDP growth of 0.3% compared to the first quarter of this year. In this regard, also from the information contained in the report to Parliament submitted by the President of the Council... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fravezzi, I invite you to conclude. FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). ...you can see that Italy can go on the road that will lead to the exit from the recession. This means that the Government and Parliament are doing their utmost. Having said that, and taking into account the tight deadlines, anticipating that I will hand over the text of my speech to the Offices, I shall conclude by making a point. Today, like today, stability, certainty, dialogue and collaboration between all political forces are the necessary ingredients for good success or, better, for the exit of the country: from the recessive phase we cannot afford to forget and leave out only one of these ingredients because it would mean to bring our country to its knees definitively, which would not deserve it. Therefore, the Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE will vote in favour of the two measures under consideration today. [[Applause from the Autonomous Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and SCPI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u17	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the remaining part of the intervention so that it is annexed to the Reports of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u20	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, what we had to say about the general accounts of the State Administration and the budgetary adjustment was largely anticipated during yesterday's debate. It is worth highlighting, however, some aspects. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and thank the Government for accepting the agenda that we have presented, which, as has been said, has the characteristic of placing the emphasis on certain issues of economic policy which are particularly relevant to us. That said, we vote against both measures because they are the photograph of a way of managing public expenditure that, in our opinion, is not adequate to the economic situation of the country: they reproduce a vision of austerity, of excessive containment of expenditure, especially of what we should devote, as has been done in other countries of the Western international system, to investments, in particular those productive ones that pay attention also to the social conditions of our citizens. Our opposition, Madam President, is also linked to the way in which the measures adopted by the Government - not only this but also the previous one - have been presented at this stage. It is almost exclusively bureaucratic, closed in the rooms of those who know perfectly the accounting procedures, but who do not have the soul or, better, the soul necessary to listen to the problems of the country. We have esteem for the skills that this Government also contains; we have personal esteem and also consideration for the President-in-Office of the Council. However, personal esteem and consideration are not enough to share a majority orientation, a somewhat over-structured management of the economic policy guidelines that have to deal with the political divergence that is systematically present and widely expressed by the different positions in the economic and fiscal policy of the Government: IMU yes, IMU no, for the first house yes, for the first house apart or a part only. There is a dialectic within the majority hardly attributable to synthesis. So, there is this limit, but there is also another one: we must get used to not using the tricks that accountants use. The government must speak to the country in a sincere way. In this same Chamber, not later than a few months ago, we unanimously approved an agenda in which the Government was asked not to allow the approval of the budget estimates of local administrations on 30 September, that is to say, to the late, almost finished year. The reply was given in the last decree issued by the Government, which moved the date for the approval of the budget estimates of the Municipalities from 30 September to 30 November. I suggested moving the 2013 budget to 31 January 2014! These issues are not of a formal nature, because the budget presented by the local authorities is the story that those administrations, those political responsibilities do to their communities, to their citizens: they tell how they will spend the money. But how can they tell how they will spend the money and give the opportunity to intervene on the way in which the economic resources of the community will be used if the budget is presented on 30 November? I believe that 80% of the municipalities are in this situation, precisely because there is uncertainty about revenue. We will not vote in favour of the general statement and the adjustment of the budget, not because there is no general sensitivity, that in the dramatic situation we recognize everyone, even the Government, undersecretary Giorgetti, but because the instruments on which we insist are not acceptable: they are increasingly restricted, increasingly restricted to accounting methods, to an approach which, in our opinion, is too bureaucratic and has no soul. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u23	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the general statement and budgetary adjustment are measures that usually do not find the time and space they deserve in the political debate (we have had the opportunity to check the progress of the work). It is true, however, that the complexity of the two measures could cause the most curious person to desist: we saw in the Commission how many files had been printed! It is also true, President, that, while the statement perfectly captures the state of the art of revenue and expenditure relating to the previous year, the adjustment instead highlights the commitments that the Government intends to take on both for the present and for the future. And these papers really deserve careful analysis. It is not my intention, nor my Group's, to pit down all the accounting data, but it seems to us appropriate to highlight a number of important aspects. The analysis that is derived from the statement clearly shows that in 2012 the country marked a heavy stop in the way of growth (I remember that last year the Government was chaired by Professor Monti). The value of GDP - perhaps the greatest of economic indicators - is what more than others photograph the economic situation and has recorded a heavy, very heavy decline, equal to less 2.4% compared to 2011: a very significant collapse that in recent weeks has been further confirmed by the OECD estimates, which has in fact evidenced that the only country of the European Union that is slowing down its economic recovery is Italy. The current economic trend - as ISTAT has also certified - could lead to a recession of 1.8 percentage points that, added to the negative figure of 2012, that today we see crystallized in the statement, represent a boulder on the already fragile shoulders of Italy. Such an economic situation certainly leaves no room for recovery: indeed, the data emerging from the measures show rather that the economic policies adopted in recent months have been profoundly recessive. The introduction, then, in 2012 of a tax on real estate has burdened, as usual, citizens, all the more in a country where the owners of housing constitute a large part of the population. The strong tax burden, together with the real estate tax on business activities, has had further depressing effects, resulting in a real fall in consumption and, consequently, in VAT revenues. Let us remember that this Government had promised to remove the IMU from the building of entrepreneurs because it is activities that they need to live and make GDP; however, it has not kept this promise. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is clear that the negative economic dynamic is absolutely not conducive to recovery. However, it is equally clear that the negative political choices made, based on a sharp contraction in investment expenditure (look carefully: investment, not current expenditure), have further contributed to aggravate an already dramatic situation. All this while in the rest of Europe the different national governments adopted choices to revive the national economy: it was not enough for the OECD to certify our negative situation! In these days the yield of our multi-year Treasury coupons stands at 4,47 percent, while that of the Spanish bonos stands at 4,45 percent. Everyone remember that last year the Spanish bonos had a very high yield; about the famous spread everyone looks at, last year Spain had a spread of almost 800 points differential compared to the coupons of Germany. They are now without us: this means that the Spanish Government has implemented economic policies to promote economic recovery. The Italian Government, now chaired by Mr Letta, has done nothing. Then we also look at the public debt, which for some time has broken the incredible level of 2,000 billion; gentlemen, 2,000 billion! Yesterday, in fact, during the examination of the settlement order, you all approved an amendment by the Government that increased the issuance of public debt securities for an additional 18 billion. Negative data, therefore, on which the Government has not provided and continues not to provide with concrete actions of cuts in public expenditure. Far from it. The figures show that the well-known measures to cut public expenditure have not yet yielded the desired results: it increases current expenditure, it is reduced, almost to compensate for this increase, capital expenditure. A figure, the latter, absolutely counterproductive: as we all know, in fact, it is the expenses of capital part that allow the economic recovery of the country, representing these resources that are then used for the realization of public works. In front of all these data has already started the contest of the dischargebarile in order to identify those responsible for a situation to the limit of the abyss, with a Letta government that enlivens daily, millando on the media decisive measures. But if the introduction of the IMU was an economic error and a horror from a technical point of view, the recent resolution announced by the Government to eliminate it, with financial coverage worthy of the best performance of a supermagician, is even worse, because it has been planned to cover its abolition future, uncertain and absolutely unsure revenue. So, in the wake of this tradition, we try to make the citizens believe that it is remedying their own measure, without considering that the blanket is always shorter, precisely because of mischievous actions and short-sighted policies, justified by the need to collect fresh resources in the short term. And so, while the virtuous Municipalities have headaches to plan their budgets, the spenders continue to throw money out the window. The funds for some municipalities in the settlement budget call for revenge, ladies and gentlemen, and create an inequality which is frankly becoming increasingly unbearable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] News like last year about the EU funds wasted in Naples to finance the concert of a well-known singer, rather than the discovery of entire abusive countries, such as that of Torre Mileto, do nothing but prove, unfortunately, more and more our political position, unchanged, unlike other countries, for twenty years now. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If we want to see a light at the end of the tunnel, if we really want to believe in a recovery, we must first of all intervene on the public debt, eliminating forever those inefficiencies and iniquities that continue to sink our country. For these reasons we shall vote against both the statement and the budgetary adjustment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u26	MARINO Luigi (SCPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Choice Group will vote in favour of both draft laws and it is reflected in the remarks of the rapporteurs and also in the speech of the representative of the Government, Mr Giorgetti. My colleague, Mr Olivero, pointed out in yesterday's speech that the budget and subsequent acts are a mirror of the country's economic, political and social situation. If this is the case, this instrument, like the related instruments, precisely the accounting and the settling, must become easier to read and understandable not only to a few professionals. I think, without criticizing anyone, that few in this House can understand the meandering volumes and volumes deposited with the 5th Commission and that they are, in fact, the subject of today's vote. On these two accounting acts there are signs of a virtuous path of rebalancing public accounts, and only a destructive polemic, as is often the Italian one, does not consider the path that we have positively completed. On these two accounts there are also signs of the sacrifices made by the Italians, by all of us, for the rebalancing of these accounts and there are also signs of the start of a policy of relaunching. I would like to extrapolate a few elements from these two measures, without, of course, examining them in their entirety. The 2012 report tells us that, compared to a declining GDP (and I think, Senator Comaroli, that it is not a problem of the Monti Government at all, but a problem that came from afar, the fact that GDP in our Country suffered for a long time, dropped, did not grow),1 the current balance was a negative sign in 2012, but even a quarter compared to that of 2011. And the primary balance - as has been mentioned in this House - is the best, after that of Germany, of all the countries of the European Union. There has been a new reduction in debt, higher than the one that had occurred at better times, and there is also a positive net balance in the management of competence. Therefore, in this House we often forget how we were in the autumn of 2011, and the signs are contained in the 2012 report. Today we place the ten-year BTP at 4.4%: at the end of 2011 and during a part of the same year the ten-year-olds were placed at 7.50 percent. It must therefore be appreciated the work of the Monti Government and today it must be acknowledged that the Letta Government, despite the problems and political turbulence, receives credit. In this account there is also the sign of the great work and the sacrifices made in order not to fall into the economic and financial abyss. And yet, to remind us that the crisis is not over at all, the crisis in public finances, we have a worrying rating. In this 2012 report there are also signs of the many measures taken during 2012, and also at the end of 2011, to produce effects of reducing public expenditure. This expenditure, let us never forget, also affects our significant contribution to the European mechanisms of financial stability. We have not asked for resources from other countries, from other organizations, from other international intermediaries. We who have suffered and suffer a serious economic and financial crisis, however, have helped to try to raise the economic and financial fortunes of other countries of the European Union. And among the measures of some importance are the novelties regarding the purchase of goods and services of the public administration. We have intervened, the governments have intervened, on the public employment through the reduction of turnover, the rationalization of the organic plant and the blocking of wages and salaries. And I do not say these words with satisfaction, because sooner or later we must resolve the unvirtuous relationship between wages and salaries blocked by the time of public employment and merit, in order to increase the productivity of public administration. Then there are the maneuvers launched during 2011 and 2012: I quote one for all, that of the 1% increase in VAT. On the adjustment for 2013, the other measure, of course, we see a sharp deterioration in the budget balance. This deterioration, however, is not arsonous, as has happened so many times in the past the result of a sensible policy of spending (it reminded us of the undersecretary Giorgetti a development in the past not careful): it is mainly the result of political choices that have been made by the Monti Government and, today, by the Letta Government. I am referring in particular to the use of that spread from 2.4% to 2.9%, which had opened with the 2011 budget, to intervene with an ad hoc measure on delayed payments by the public administration. The adjustment also shows lower final revenues, which are the result of an objective difficulty in the context of the economic crisis: the contraction in consumption that causes us to collect less VAT, and other taxes, excise duties and so on. The whole is partially balanced - very partially balanced - by an increase in taxes on both individuals and companies, probably due to an intensification of the fight against evasion and avoidance. Then we return - and I conclude - to the medicine, to the real medicine of all of us, to the public budget, to the productivity and economy of our country, to the salaries of our people, to the income of our people, to our people. Medicine is growth: production growth, consumption growth, investment growth, bank credit growth, and growth goes through a more robust competitiveness of both the public sector and the business world. While political and judicial debates are raging in Italy, in Europe and in the world there are signs that it would be a shame to waste: just think of the low rates that still remain throughout the economically advanced world. This is the moment of stability, precisely because we have achieved the rebalancing of public finances. It is time to take on the most robust commitments made on structural reforms, on reducing public expenditure and on stimulating growth. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u29	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, the report represents what the State has done in a year. It seems inconceivable that up to now the political forces have focused their full attention on the budget, disinteresting themselves in what actually happens then. Most of the content of the forecast balance is unenforced, and this can occur only by looking at the final balance with the magnifying glass. The system practice that has developed is that of co-management, where political forces pretend to clash on the budget, but in fact decide together on the large part of the measures. Now the PD and PDL majority have put this practice of co-responsibility out of the blue. One thing is said, budget, and it is done its opposite, final budget. The first thing that jumps to the eye is the premise in the bill: In Italy, tensions in the financial markets in the second half of 2011 led to a strong tightening of fiscal policies, aimed at achieving the medium-term objective of structural balance and the closure of the excessive deficit procedure opened in 2009 onwards. Therefore, the last three successive governments have set themselves the objective of making the accounts square on the expenditure side, imposing - it is said - on each Ministry the reduction of the financial envelopes and providing that the administrations propose on which appropriations to make reductions and, only if this had not been done, the Ministry of Economy and Finance would have intervened with linear cuts, implemented with blindfolded eyes however. The result was that he cut himself badly and blindly in the soft belly of the Italians, reducing the funding to the research agencies and blocking public salaries, for nothing by giving up useless agencies, indeed creating new ones, last the appointment of yet another super-expert commissioner who will make yet another report on public spending, which for the umpteenth time will lie in a drawer: he is therefore a useless and expensive commissioner. But it is certainly not that we should not cut: on the contrary, we have also proposed a motion in this respect, indicating methods and expenses to be cut. This is another example of a multiplication of public expenditure. The draft law states that most of the provisions did not have any effect on the 2012 financial statements. How, then, has the evil done been curbed? By massacrating Italians of taxes, introducing the IMU experimentally, increasing the VAT rate, excise duties and reducing to the bone the facilities to companies. But these harassments were not enough, because, despite everything, the public debt has increased, as well as the passive interests, which each have weighed on the shoulders of the Italians and inhibit any room for manoeuvre to prevent the failure of the country. At this point, we may be led to think that worse than this cannot go. Reading the account is understood instead that the situation is dramatic and that the worst still has to come. In 2011, government revenue amounted to around €750,000 million and expenditure to €706,000 million; in 2012, revenues increased to €35,000 million while expenditure increased to €42,000 million. Just do the accounts of the servant to understand: it happened exactly the opposite of what they had anticipated. And be careful, however, not to make fun of us with the budget, where revenue and expenditure are deliberately pumped, because this allows them to say: as we were good, we planned to spend more and instead we spent less; having spent less, we were good with the Italians because we massacred them without pity of taxes, but a little less than they deserved. The comparison must be done with the real data, with the surveys and with the commitments of the years 2011 and 2012; they, instead, in the relationships think they can make fun of us by confusing goats and cabbages. On the expenditure side, the situation is even more dramatic: a black hole that swallows up everything. The trend is a decrease in production contributions, household assistance and capital expenditure and a parallel increase in current expenditure and interest payments. That's what we could call a race to the abyss. It is interesting, always reasoning on the actual commitments of the state, to see the evolution of the expenditure and to note that, from 2000 to 2012, the total current expenses have gone from 564,000 million euros to 749,000. But what comes to mind is that current expenditure rose from 354,000 million to 489,000 million and capital expenditure from 44,706 million to 45,653 million, so evidently our rulers have decided not to invest anymore in the future of this country. We live in a country where 750 billion come out of the public coffers, where politics lets half of GDP pass through its hands and also succeeds in debt, despite Italy being one of the most taxed countries in the world. In the statement, the public debt mission has registered commitments of 39.5% of the total of our public expenditure, of which only for interest due is committed the figure of 81,000 million. This voice, over the years, has always increased and the forecasts of our rulers say it will increase again. Of course, resources will be taken by reducing capital and research expenditure: they despise the future. Meanwhile, they keep us busy with Berlusconi's personal affairs and take us by the backs saying that they will abolish the IMU, which as we know will be replaced by the service tax; What they hide instead is that for the Italians the weight of the tax is destined to increase. But it is not over, after the statement, we also deal with the adjustment to the 2013 budget. Well, the notes of the Budget Service to the bill show for 2013 a further worsening of public finances. I quote: The deterioration of the net balance to be financed is €29,187 million, that of the public saving of €15,512 million; the primary balance worsens by €29,582 million changing in sign, while the use of the market worsens by €24,546 million. With regard to Article 2 of the draft law, it is stated that: The provisions in question contain amendments to the budget law for 2013: paragraph 1 provides for an increase in the maximum authorised amount of issuance of public bonds, i.e. public debt, from the estimated 24,000 million to 80,000 million euros. This article is being amended by the government in the meantime, and the maximum authorized amount will increase from 80,000 million to 98,000 million. In this regard, in view of the statement to the contrary that the 5 Star Movement made earlier in the Commission and now in this House, we have been accused of excessive populism and demagogy. We have been accused, among other things, of not wanting to pay for companies, because the Government's amendment would be in favour of paying for companies by public administrations. There are, however, an additional EUR 60,000 million in debt, which is certainly not the case for companies. I conclude by telling my distinguished colleagues that the additional EUR 18,000 million does not represent aid to businesses, but the payment of debts to which any civil state must comply. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u32	Mr Azzollini (PdL). Madam President, I shall confine myself to making only brief comments on the issues relating, in particular, to the settlement measure which is to our attention, having been analytically indicated the figures and having been comprehensively represented by the rapporteurs, Senators Santini and Ceroni, the fundamental aspects of the two measures in our examination. I have listened carefully to the analysis that has been made in the speeches of my colleagues on some of the issues raised by the measures under discussion. I shall therefore confine myself to a few basic considerations. In essence, both the statement and the adjustment show figures with the minus sign in front. In particular, revenues have decreased very significantly, and so-called balances, all in all, have deteriorated. It is clear that this is the sign induced by the deep crisis, not only financial, but economic of our country. To limit oneself to this and not to propose some stimuli would of course be incongruous. It is therefore useful to focus on two or three large aggregates. The first is the expenditure on public debt interest. The figure for 2012 is final and is approximately 81 billion. The 2013 balance already amounts to 89 billion, difficult to revisit downwards, more likely to be revised upwards. This means that the battle for fiscal consolidation must not be at all in the background. The Government must know that, even in the current measures, increases in public expenditure, which are also covered by interventions that immediately affect the world of production, such as excise duties, must be considered with extreme caution. The account and the arrangement also offer us a photograph not in real time, but with delay and have the advantage of being very sharp. The dry increase in interest still does not allow any increase in public expenditure that does not have immediate repercussions in the productive activity. If, instead, we increase current public spending and cover it with quantities that affect the productive activity we do not do our job well. In this respect, the real positive fact that we find is that the positive effect of the liquidity injection for public government payments established by the measures recently examined by the Assembly is beginning to come to fruition. It is not yet clear: at this moment we discount the minus sign, because obviously the liquidity input affects the balances and, instead, the return comes over time and not immediately, but some elements certainly can be seen. That was, therefore, an appropriate choice, because in view of a clear increase in public expenditure in various ways there has been an immediate impact on the economy, and only the increase in gross domestic product (but, let's say, of all the variables of the economy) can bring back revenue to a good level. On the other measures - I say this clearly to the Government at the moment - the Budget Committee will be careful in assessing the coverage. Otherwise, gentlemen, things are going badly: excise duties, for example, are steadily falling. We must, therefore, be very careful in the evaluation. Of course, we will carefully consider the possibility of some measures helping consumption, but the focus on rigour in public finances must remain high. I'm only asking one more question, the general one. Tax revenues have fallen heavily. This means that, beyond all the journalistic and conference cries, tax revenues only increase if economic activity increases. All the other issues turn out to be marginal. I have so much respect for the House that I do not start a journalistic debate, but the fact is that, in the face of the fall in economic activity, there is a fall in tax revenue. Drammatic is that of VAT, heavy is that of excise duties; direct taxes seem to be going better, but only because we have done a legal miracle, charging citizens with the burden of a deposit of more than one hundred percent, thus affecting more than the economy, the vocabulary, because a deposit is greater than the whole. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Having said that, the truth is that the task we must insist on is to free productive activities. I do not know how much of the plumbea and grey area that today is incumbent on companies can in any way encourage tax entry. I am convinced, more and more, on the basis of this data, of what our task is today. I say this, Madam President, because these measures are actually prodromic at the budgetary session, so at the budgetary session we need to rethink the issue of the liberation of the forces of enterprise. I am thinking only of one issue, and I conclude my speech. I would remind all my colleagues, the majority and the opposition, that the extreme restrictions on cash, which should have given us some results, have given only one result: the reduction of economic activity. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Candiani]] We need to reconsider the issues openly. The picture is clear: the decrease in GDP grows (as you know, it was at minus 1.3, then minus 1.7, we accepted minus 1.8, then we will see). This was immediately related to a reduction in tax revenue, particularly on consumption: 10 billion less VAT. This, gentlemen, must make us reconsider the need that, since there is little money to finance certain things, we must free the forces of the Italian economy; otherwise, if we do not have the GDP that increases, you want to shout that other issues will help the economy! Not that you underestimate other issues, Madam President: they are important in terms of ethics and citizenship rights, but they do not free the economy. I do not say that, but the budget statement and the budgetary adjustment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] That is why, Madam President, we shall be voting in favour of the two measures on the agenda, because they give a clear picture of the situation in the accounts and give the legislator a clear address to which he must standardise his work, and in fact, in a favourable way, just before the budgetary session, they give us very clear indications. I am sure that the government will continue along this path. [[Applause from the PdL, Pd and LN-Aut groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u35	Mr Guerrieri Paleopti (PD). Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of the general statement for the financial year 2012 and the budgetary adjustment for the year 2013 for a number of reasons that I will try here to summarize in this brief speech. The first - and it has been remembered - also by others - is that the 2012 statement offers full confirmation of the powerful and in many respects positive process of adjustment of the public accounts realized during last year and in the first part of this year. It has resulted in three 81.3 billion corrective maneuvers. We have thus passed from the possible financial default of our country in November 2011 - with the risk of no longer being able to finance on the capital market the securities of our public debt - to the almost structural balance of these months. A result, the latter, which should certainly not be overlooked, as some did during the debate, especially if we want to draw up reports of this stage. It is certainly an expensive recovery, which has led to the rise in our tax burden over 44 percent (it was 42.6 in 2011), three points higher than the European average. But the surge in tax pressure was not the only lever used, as many people continue to support. If we go to see the data of the statement, we will find that a contribution has also come from the current primary expenditure, the one net of interest: in the two years 2011-2012 it has remained substantially stable in nominal terms. It is certainly true that it is only a first partial result, but it would be wrong to underestimate it, because it has not occurred in decades anyway. Thanks to the adjustment made, Italy, as has been mentioned, has emerged from the European excessive deficit procedure; this has opened up new opportunities and offered additional degrees of freedom to budgetary policies, especially in view of next year. Without underestimating the rediscovered credibility and the role of the protagonist recovered from our country in the European and international field. But it is true that Italian repositioning has produced the greatest costs for the real economy - as we know - with a productive recession and an increase in unemployment as intense and prolonged as it had never happened - even in this case - for decades. The European context has also made a significant contribution to this, and it has been very prone to inadequate policies because they are excessively restrictive. Hence the need, now, for a new phase, with the need to redefine the objectives of our country's economic policy function in order to revive growth and fight unemployment, while respecting the budgetary constraints established by Europe. This is what the Led Government has begun to do and is doing, as is also apparent from the data in the settlement bill. But these manoeuvres, as we know, clash with very scarce resources and very limited budgetary margins. In other words, the budget cover remains short, too short, especially since this year's fall in GDP, forecast to be 1.8%, will only reduce these margins even more. At the moment, the Government confirms the objective of achieving a balanced budget in structural terms, but we will need, and here I agree with what others have said, maximum vigilance. Not only because there is an impact of the debt stock on GDP that remains very high, but because an overflow, even modest, would project us beyond the 3% ceiling, which would mean falling back into the excessive deficit procedure, thus losing the flexibility margins that, just from next year, we could instead use in some way. It is a game, the latter, which, in fact, is worth between eight and ten billion. Let's not forget that. The Democratic Party believes that there is still a need to do something else, to go beyond mere austerity and the only emergency of constraints. Because first of all we must attack the structural shortcomings of our country that are the basis of stagnation and the unbearable inequalities existing in our society. We know that the government is aiming for a return to growth. A growth that should be materialized from the fourth quarter. There are already positive signs in Europe, to a lesser extent from us. But after five years of crisis we certainly cannot be content with these buds. Because it is not enough for companies, let alone for employment, to get out of the recession with growth rates just above zero. And in order not to waste this opportunity for recovery, important economic policy measures are needed on at least three fronts. The first: continue to repay most of the debts of the public administration, as it has begun to do. The second is to bring credit back to business by offering more guarantees on bank loans and activating non-bank channels. Thirdly, we must take a tax reduction path that is now heavily dependent on work and businesses. In this respect, the tax wedge must be significantly reduced, as it is more than 12 points above the OECD average. And it is the latter's most important intervention, but in order to implement it we need resources. Then the problem is where to find them. The margins available in the budget are very small, there is no illusions, and I have already said so. At the same time, linear or semilinear cuts cannot continue to be made, nor can taxation be further increased. Then there is a need, in order to find new resources, for a profound discontinuity in the public policies implemented so far. It is an obligatory road and it involves a profound recomposition and restructuring of our public spending programmes. It is called: spending review in current use. It is a widely used expression, a lot is said about it, but nothing has been done so far. Instead, it must be put into practice, and immediately. Above all, the possible options must be made clear; for example, what can and must be reduced in terms of the tax burden on labour and businesses and how they are to be covered by cuts and recompositions of public spending. In this respect, the next stability law, which the Government will present to Parliament by the middle of October, will be the key event. It is there that the priorities will have to be presented, in advance, both of the objectives that are to be pursued and of the resources to be allocated to cover. The Democratic Party will endeavour to ensure that this event takes on such importance, precisely in order to take advantage of the opportunity of recovery and facilitate the definitive exit from the recession. A not insignificant corollary is that we can also put ourselves in the best position to play our game in Europe, pushing for a change of European economic policy that requires profound changes, and trying to make full use of that flexibility clause in capital expenditure granted to us by Brussels, but which for now has remained on paper. At this point it is clear that the choices of the government in the coming weeks will be decisive in order to consolidate the positive signs, for now few, recorded by our economy. We could really be at a turning point in the crisis, as long as we don't waste the opportunities. And it is equally clear that a government crisis at this point and the political instability that would follow would produce dramatic costs, because they would run the risk of frustrating much of the results achieved so far. Madam President, for the reasons summarized here, the vote of the Democratic Party Group will be strongly in favour of the approval of the 2012 general statement and of the budgetary adjustment for the financial year 2013. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Azzollini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u36	We shall now proceed to the final vote on the draft law Nos. 888 and 889.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u37	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill n. 888, as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u38	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill n. 889, as a whole, in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Colleagues, we are waiting for the Minister of Justice who will be here in a few minutes. I therefore briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and resumed at 11.07 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u39	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Justice on the reorganisation of judicial divisions. I call the Minister for Justice, Dr. Chancellors.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u40	Mr President, Senators, as you all know, the reform of judicial geography will come into force in just two days' time. This reform, which everyone considered strategic for the recovery of the efficiency of the judicial system, is the result of a long iter, begun in July 2011, with Minister Palma and the Government Berlusconi, who launched the delegation, and continued in September 2012, with Minister Severino and the Government Monti, which that delegation implemented with legislative decrees no. 155 and 156. It is up to me and the Government of which I belong to the perhaps most ungrateful task: to give you, as the law requires, effective implementation. It is a long-awaited reform, defined epochal during the inauguration ceremony last judicial year by the President of the Court of Cassation, appreciated by scholars, the National Association of Judges and the Supreme Council of the judiciary; a reform fully shared by me, by the Letta Government and extraordinarily supported by the President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano, to which, once again, my personal thanks go. It is also a change that, causing about 47% of the judicial offices of the entire national territory to disappear, raises, understandably, resistance in the territories in which it affects most. Therefore, an expensive intervention in terms of consensus and popularity, but which represents an important proof of maturity for Parliament and for the Government. It is thus shown that those who have the task of governing are able to put aside their particular interests in favor of the superior one of the functionality of the public thing. If in the past objectives like these have been missed, today we must demonstrate to the country and to those who observe us from abroad that a new course has been inaugurated, that looks to the future and that it tends to a more modern and efficient judicial system. Having said that, I would like to point out that since the beginning of my new ministerial mandate I have offered my full willingness to listen to all the constructive suggestions and suggestions aimed at improving the reform in question. I have, however, had to note, not without regret, that the whole of these suggestions did not translate into a unitary synthesis which was able, without upheavals, to guarantee an additional and corrective intervention widely shared between the political forces. In the meantime, the Constitutional Court rejected all the actions brought - with the exception of the one concerning the Urbino court - and fully confirmed the validity of the criteria for selecting the deleted offices, stressing both their reasonableness and their full compliance with the delegation conferred on the Government. Moreover, the precise and analytical reasons set out by the Court for dealing with the numerous complaints raised are, inevitably, intended to condition the limits, the extent and the merit of the possible corrective actions that we will be called upon to assess within the deadlines provided for by the same delegation law. It is sufficient here to recall the recognized reasonableness of the criterion by which all courts have been abolished with a catchment area of less than 100,000 inhabitants. I believe that calling into question this criterion - which is one of the cornerstones of the reform - would undermine the effectiveness of that principle of reasonableness recognised by the Constitutional Court. If I may give a second example, even the proposal to turn all the suppressed courts into presidios, even though I had a good consensus, was not objectively viable, for a double order of reasons. Firstly, the introduction of no more precise presies of justice falls outside the limits of the law of delegation. In addition, in a substantial way, the surreptitious reproduction of a model totally comparable to the detached seats would in fact have compromised the overall value of the reform. This choice would, however, have required, for reasons of obvious fairness, a review of the substance of the situation of all the other deleted sub-sections which, in some cases, had objectively areas of users and workloads far greater than even most of the courts that were removed. Having said that, I am fully aware that a reform of these proportions, especially during the start-up phase, requires a lot of organizational difficulties to be faced, in order to overcome which, in many cases, the instrument provided for in Article 8 of Legislative Decree no. 155 has been used. We have considered using this instrument by entrusting it, first and foremost, to the initiative of the presidents of the merging structures. In this way, in recent months, I have adopted as many as 45 ministerial decrees that, in various ways and with different timings, predispose the best possible operating conditions for the situations of greatest criticality found on the territory and reported directly by the heads of offices. But I did not intend to limit to this the operation that Article 8 offers to the Guardasigilli. In fact, I felt it necessary to assume the responsibility in the first person to activate an investigation aimed at assessing, on the basis of strictly objective criteria (basin of users or workloads), the use of the buildings of some suppressed courts, mainly for the disposal of pending civil affairs, for a limited period of time. At the end of the acquisition of the prescribed opinions, I intend to take a measure under Article 8 for these particular situations. Mr Senators, in concluding my speech I feel the institutional duty to represent the objective impossibility of stopping reform today. The administrative machinery has been in operation for some time now: almost all the removals have already been carried out; computer systems have been adapted, most of the workers concerned have been transferred, and the necessary costs have been met. The new organic plants have been launched and the Board of Governors - to which, since the Vice-President, Mr Vietti, I would like to thank the public for the support and cooperation received - has no longer covered the staff gaps at the offices that have been removed. In practice, senators, it is necessary to know that these offices are now deprived of many magistrates transferred to another seat, that the new hearings are already ready for discussion in the merging seats and that a postponement - even of short duration - would produce chaos with absolute certainty. All this, to the detriment of the citizens, in the interest of which the reform has been launched. Therefore, we are all called together to address the start of the reform with a constructive spirit and institutional loyalty, proceeding in the course of the work to monitor the situation, in order to assess in the near future the possible need for corrective action within the deadlines provided for by the law delegation. For this reason, we have already prepared, in its essential lines, a first corrective intervention, with some organizational and procedural rules that will make the phase of the reform even smoother, while we will adopt immediately after a second corrective decree, to make some changes in the territorial planning of the new courts, thus receiving some of the reports coming from both this House and from the territories. I am convinced of the need for this reform, and I would also like to point out in this House that the government is working in line with the indications made by the European institutions and the World Bank that they call on us to move forward in this direction decisively. It is a path that, recently, has helped to get Italy out of the infringement procedure initiated by the European Union, but it is also a commitment made by our country to which we cannot and do not want to escape. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Senators Alicata, Amoruso and Formigoni groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u41	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Justice. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u42	Madam Minister, thank you for coming to the Senate, even before certain deadlines follow up on this reform. However, I express - and I do not believe only in my own personal capacity - a great deal of concern about the communications you have made and the acts that are under way. I am well aware that this affair has gone through various governments and has been the subject of a debate that has often divided the political forces within them, creating in the territories diversified reactions depending on the most lucky or unfortunate judgment or fate that has happened to this or that reality. However, we believe that the inconveniences will outweigh the alleged benefits of this reform. Since many are the territories in anxiety and, indeed, there are often situations of protest and discomfort that the world of justice, the forensic world and citizens are expressing, I will not quote this or that case, at least personally, because too many of them should be listed, and omissions would be resented by those who were not mentioned. However, I would like to remind you of your statements relating in particular to certain areas where criminal phenomena are of greater importance and where we have seen and observed partial extensions with regard to civil matters, labour (and, in a single case, an exception in criminal matters) in order to dispose of arrears for a limited period; this, in my opinion, does not satisfy the requirement that you yourself, especially for certain areas of Italy, had rightly and necessarily stressed. We therefore believe that it would be right to return to this matter. Moreover, on 24 July, the Senate adopted an extension measure, which we ourselves will have to bring to the attention of the House - and I am sure we will do so - which could be intertwined with ongoing procedures and a whole series of events that have been initiated. A few weeks ago, we also voted on an agenda, with almost unanimous support from this House, which we hoped would serve to further reflect and postpone. I realize that decisions of this nature then impose, to some extent, a moment in which we assume a responsibility; but we believe that the service of justice will not be advantaged (even in terms of costs it is all to be shown that the material and organizational traffics in course will succeed to give a relief to the public finances). In this regard, much rhetoric has been made over the years and through so many governments, with assessments all to be demonstrated in terms of global costs, travels and inconveniences that citizens, the forensic world and the organization of justice itself in the strict sense will have to suffer and suffer. I conclude this speech, which did not want to mention this or that case because it would have been too long for the list, to express not only all the reservations about the measures in place, but also the bitterness for not having taken into account the vote of this House, which can, however, by legislative measures, give a different and alternative direction to what, unwisely, is pursuing this Government. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u44	Mr President, it is obvious that the Minister's report, which is sufficiently timely, comes within a parliamentary framework. You, Madam Minister, are no stranger to this Parliament: you are here and you must report to Parliament, but you must also accept the suggestions that come from it, and you know perfectly well that the issue of the reorganisation of the judicial offices is not a new one for the parliamentary classrooms. It has been a subject that has held hold for several months, and has seen three Ministers move on to the Dicastery of Justice. This, just to talk about the most recent times, because to see it is about a decade that we talk about the need to rationalize the judicial offices, without that until now we have managed to bring home any appreciable results. I believe that the catchment areas, the workload and the state of the buildings are important, but I believe that it is even more important for citizens to have access to judicial services, which already weigh on them in terms of sacrifices, not only economic, but also with reference, for example, to the length of the trials. Italian justice is really sick: I think it is now in a deep coma, both from resuscitation and needs a little more careful consideration. In the light of these considerations, given that the question is on the political table with some pressure from at least two legislatures, I believe it is important to take stock not only of the developments of the last few weeks but also of what was initially planned and agreed between the Minister of Justice his predecessor and the elected assemblies, during the last parliamentary term in particular, when the draft legislative decree on the new organisation of the ordinary courts and offices of the public prosecutor was submitted to Parliament's opinion. It was precisely on the scheme in question that there was a satisfactory demand for political convergence in the Senate Justice Commission, which would not be fair to ignore. On the other hand, popular sovereignty, Minister, is here, and if the Commission converges on specific points, why does the Minister not take them into account? Why didn't your predecessor take them into account? What interests did he have? What lobby was your predecessor supposed to defend? In order to return to the current situation, before the summer break, as Senator Gasparri mentioned earlier, this House approved an agenda with which the Government undertook to take into account precisely the guidelines which emerged during the last parliamentary term in both branches of Parliament, the result of a busy work and a political synthesis of which today it would be at least inappropriate not to take into account. You, Madam Minister, cannot fail to take into account the will of this House, otherwise it is a waste of time. What do we vote to make the agendas that the government accepts and then does not take into account? Will it not be in check of lobbying within its Dicastery that prevents it from carrying on the will of this House? You cannot fail to take into account what this Assembly has voted for. Even during the current legislature, the question of so-called judicial geography has landed among the benches of the Justice Commission, of which I am a member, which almost unanimously voted an extension of the entry into force, which should take place the day after tomorrow, of the measure that provides for the abolition of 30 courts, 30 prosecutors, 220 detached sections and 667 seats of peace judges, in order to arrive at a revision of judicial districts, which is not only propagandistic but which effectively contributes to improving the level of the judicial sector in Italy, which is really poor and insufficient. The one voted in the Commission on justice is a postponement aimed not at dismissing the measure but at achieving a text that has as immediate consequence an efficiency of the courts, as well as the rationalization of the judicial offices. The efficiency of justice, Minister, is synonymous with civilization and must therefore be the objective to be pursued. This is the result that we should all want to bring home, starting from some cornerstones, such as the duration of the processes that - I say this openly - cannot be traded for principles based merely on economicity. I say this because, if we want to base ourselves solely on a principle that requires a saving perspective, the first step should be not to intervene in the field of justice but on bad justice, which represents a huge cost to the State of about one and a half points of GDP per year (and I am talking about 20-25 billion per year). If, therefore, the haste to quickly approve a measure to close a number of courts is due to the need to cash in, I am sorry but we are out of the way, because it is on the functioning or, better, on the malfunctioning of the whole machinery of justice that we should intervene. Justice in Italy is sick and must be cured. The magistrates who occupy positions of power in the various ministries, and in that of justice in particular, should be replaced, perhaps by doctors or shamans who cure this disease that afflicts the country. In this regard, I would remind you that, despite a referendum in 1987 which has been systematically ignored, the reparation of the judicial error is the responsibility of the State because, contrary to what the Italians clearly expressed in the referendum, we continue to refuse to introduce the civil liability of the magistrates into our legal system, so that, while here we are discussing how to save money by reducing the number of courts - which is right, for goodness sake - the State and for it the citizens continue to subsidise the judicial errors and, moreover, as soon as this measure comes into force, the latter will have more difficulties and will have to face higher costs in order to reach the judicial fora that will remain in existence. With a view to rationalising current expenditure, would it not be a first step to extend to the judiciary the principle that applies to any other category of professionals who are jointly and severally obliged to face the error they have made? Imagine that the rationalization of the courts and the solution to the long-standing problem of prison overcrowding - which costs us both in terms of damages and potential European sanctions - would not be more logical in an organic discourse of efficiency of a service with a view to economic efficiency? The European Union has given us time until May 2014, Madam Minister: it will remember this date. The rationalization of judicial offices is important, but is it a priority over the condition in which people who in a few square meters spend almost all of their days, literally standing on each other, often with little light and air? While the European Court of Human Rights calls on Italy to restore legality within prisons, where cells for two people house up to six prisoners, in spite of the constitutionally guaranteed dignity and right to health, the Ministry of Justice has for two years been the main objective of the reform of judicial geography. But do the 40 children in the wake of their mothers in prison, according to the figures as of August 31, also represent a cost? In view of the rationalization of expenditure, the objective of the measure under discussion, what are you planning to do about it? Let it be clear, this measure must be seen as soon as possible, but we cannot ignore the demands made in the parliamentary classrooms, in the committees of merit, but above all by the citizens, for whom justice cannot be a greater cost than the current one (and with the term "cost" I do not intend to refer only to economic aspects). For these reasons the measure must not depart from the delegation received in the last legislature, whose parameters in identifying the offices to be maintained or deleted were such as to consider, among others, the territorial specificity of the catchment area, also with regard to the infrastructural situation and the impact rate of organised crime. At stake are therefore costs, both in economic and social terms, which would require careful reflection on the opportunity to maintain, in the offices of the suppressed courts, a detached section of the court, in order to ensure an adequate and functional presence of judicial offices in the territory, in order to guarantee the indispensable aims of efficiency of the judicial machinery. In conclusion, Madam Minister, the reform of judicial geography in the terms in which it was put into effect should be placed, for the truly negative judgment that I give - in the third song of Dante's hell, precisely among the "sciaurati," which never lived. I repeat, therefore: the negative judgment that we have of the previous Minister Severino I believe is such that we invite you to review and redefine the terms of judicial geography. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u45	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, I make a small premise. We members of the Autonomous Group and the Italian Socialist Party are of the opinion that this reform must continue. It is a reform in some ways courageous; it must not be the only one concerning justice, but it must be a reform that achieves the objectives it has declared: to respond to the need to reduce costs, increase efficiency and therefore lead to a turning point in our country regarding this long-standing issue. Madam Minister, mistakes have been made in the implementation of the reform that make it run the risk of weakening it in its effects: to weaken it in the practical effects and in the perception of public opinion, which sees it only as further penalising its rights, its right to have an adequate, efficient, rapid and close to its territorial realities. Why close to their territorial realities? Madam Minister, it is not a question of modernising and rationalising our system if the costs are shifted from the state budget to the household budget. That's the point. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] Madam Minister, we must make a reform that increases the overall efficiency of the system and democracy in our country; a reform that brings citizens closer to this state, very often distracted about general interests and very attentive to particular situations. For the sake of Fatherland, I do not touch the subject on the agenda elsewhere, but it is clear that we must have this matter in mind. Madam Minister, let me give you some examples far from my territorial and political interests; since I am a senator of this Republic, I cannot look only at the garden of my home but I must look at Italy. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio]] One example is the suppression of the courts of Ariano Irpino and Sant'Angelo dei Lombardi. It is a territory that, with the implementation of the reform, from 13 will be deprived of the presence of the State in an essential service for a crossing area of inter-regional mafia criminal organizations, such as 'ndrangheta, sacred united crown, camorra and whatever else the criminal fantasy of our country makes us available. We can't deprive that territory of a service. It is a territory almost equivalent to that of a contiguous region, the Basilicata. Rossano, just the name: Rossano Calabro, there's no need to say anything else. It is not thinkable to merge Rossano on a certainly minor court, which has its dignity as a court but which is very distant from that reality. Lucera's reasoning is the same as Rossano Calabro. But I want to take myself to other areas, Madam Minister. I want to refer to areas closer to my territorial reality. I am referring to the problems of Liguria. There are courts that have huge criminal problems and that are suppressed and others whose territorial competence is shifted; other issues, other territories. I have used these examples, but let me also use the example that concerns me most closely, where there is no mention of the abolition of courts, Madam Minister, but of a simple action with a red marker: moving a geographical border of jurisdiction between one territory and another. It is the example of my reality. I am talking about this because it does not increase or decrease the costs: it can increase the costs of the populations or keep them as they are today. I am referring to the combination of Chivasso's ex-detachment session with the Ivrea Court, which is unacceptable: we have territories 5-10 kilometres from the Turin Court and we attribute to the jurisdiction of a court 40 kilometres away that has not served, that of Ivrea, where one train passes every hour and a half, when it is served by dozens and dozens of buses, subways and so on. Madam Minister, what is the point of shifting the competence of the former branch of Chivasso to Ivrea, if not to promote corporate operations? This is unacceptable. This is not a reform of justice. Madam Minister, I do not want to use all the time at my disposal. The weight of the responsibility I feel on my shoulders causes me to increase the tone of my voice, but I absolutely do not want to do so because she deserves all our respect and attention; indeed, we trust in her sensitivity and will to remove these problems. We expect that in the next few days and weeks, as you said, we will be able to implement the changes in the current approach necessary to implement the principle of respect for the will of the people, which we represent here today. Today, Madam Minister, we are telling you with our heart that we need to reform, but we also need to change those critical aspects that are unsustainable for our people. Finally, I would like to make one final point. I am part of a composite group, which includes Autonomous, Italian Socialist Party and Italian Association Movement abroad. In view of the fact that the member of the Südtiroler Volkspartei and other autonomous components have a particular specificity, we hope that you, with your well-known sensitivity, will also respond to the issues posed by these territories with particular legislation and a particular economic situation, to which they are responsible. [[Applause from the PdL and M5S groups and Senators Cuomo and Capacchione]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u47	Senator Anitori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u48	Mr Minister for Justice, I would like to draw your attention to the failure to include the detached section of Ostia among the judicial offices which will remain open for two years for the disposal of the backward. In fact, for this judicial office all the premises that she herself placed at the basis of the recent decree by which the continuation of the activity was authorized, for a period of two years, for as many as eight courts. It is considered that it is a serious and unforgivable error not to authorize the continuation of the activity also to the judicial office of Ostia, of which the specificity of the territorial context and the basin of users must be taken into account. In fact, the detached section of Ostia has jurisdiction in the territory of the X Town Hall of Rome Capital (ex XIII), of about 300,000 inhabitants, with a catchment area that is therefore similar to that of the court of Bologna and in any case higher than the 180,000 units planned by you, Minister, as a benchmark for the selection of courts to be left open for the disposal of slopes. Nor can it be justified for Ostia's failure to include the fact that it is a detached section, because the Minister is well aware that the metropolitan area of Rome - which alone has a greater population than the whole of Milan - has placed on several occasions the need to establish a second court within the City of Rome, as has happened for Naples, and this is already discussed in the report to the first legislative decree No 491 of 1999 on the revision of judicial districts. Therefore, the peculiarity of the detached section of Ostia, allowing the decongestion of the judicial office in Rome, which has the largest dimensions at European level, would justify a different solution from that adopted for the other circumscriptions and foreclosures of court. In addition, in order to detect the second threshold value that you set for the continuation of the activity for a further two years, that is, that relating to the excesses, it has emerged from a comparative investigation that the detached section of Ostia has workloads greater than those of real courts of which you have recently decreed the permanence. This constitutes further evidence of the necessary different solution to be adopted for Ostia compared to the other detached sections and constitutes evidence of an unacceptable and inexplicable disparity of treatment between the judicial office of Ostia and the eight courts left open. The judicial office of Ostia has also demonstrated an exemplary efficiency, with very high disposal indices, which produced in 2010-2011 - unique case in the district of Rome, also for the intensive use of delegated mediation - a decrease in the gradients of 32 percent, as attested by the president of the court of appeal of Rome in the inauguration report of the judicial year 2012. But most of all, I would like to stress, Mr Minister, that this court actively operates in a territory at high risk of infiltration by organized crime - as the chronicles have long stated - with port, airport and drug trafficking, a condition that makes the presence on the spot of a State garrison particularly important, where there are validations of arrests and criminal trials also in relation to the labour of organized crime. To close the garrison of justice on the Roman coast involves a real retreat of the State with abandonment of the territory. Finally, it should be stressed that the law delegates the guiding principle of primary importance in the revision of judicial geography is that of the rationalization of the justice service in the large metropolitan areas, including Rome, which must necessarily be realized by decongestion of the metropolitan court. So the objective of the reform is clearly distorted by the abolition of the detached section of Ostia which would require that the workload of the suppressed office be transferred to the only metropolitan court, thus leading to a further congested office already heavily burdened. In conclusion, it is considered that there are all the prerequisites, given the specificity of the judicial office of Ostia in comparison with the other detached sections, in order to grant an extension of two years, with the awareness that this solution would still be partial to the serious problems afflicting the justice of the Capital, but that it can serve to put hand to a different legal solution that establishes a second city court, as happened in Naples. I would therefore urge you, Mr Cancellieri, to consider this opportunity and to include the Ostia judicial office among the principals of justice to be left open for a further two years in order to dispose of pending proceedings. [[Applause from the Mixed and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u49	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for her report, although unfortunately what you have told us does not remove the great doubts that we have, not only with regard to the Severino decree, which has created great problems for us, but also with regard to all the measures that have been adopted, particularly the last one. What surprises us and still remains inexplicable is the arcane process through which today we have come to talk about the reform of judicial geography. From you, Madam Minister, we have once again heard the need for this reform and the need for it to be done in a certain way. Why, then, has the hope of adopting corrective decrees been fueled for months? If one were so convinced that the reform had to proceed in accordance with the procedures set out in Decree No. 155 and 156, why did all this happen? With this way of proceeding - I repeat - the hopes of legal practitioners, courts and lawyers' orders have risen, hopes which have certainly led to a further inconvenience compared to the one already caused by the reform itself. As Senator Buemi said, the problem is not so much reform, but how it has been put into practice. Let us remember that the Senate Justice Commission, in expressing its opinion on the reform, had already noted inconsistencies and problems. It would have been enough simply to take note of this in order to find a solution already, at least by being able to buffer a reform that, in practice, will not be, as you said, Minister, a strategic reform for the recovery of efficiency: that is not the case. That is what has been pointed out by the lawyers' orders, by the courts and by the municipalities: this is not an improvement in efficiency. There are some very serious problems that have been highlighted. But what - I repeat - still remains inexplicable is the arcane process through which we have reached this point, which a little surprises us of the North League. In fact, when justice began to discuss reform in the Commission, a draft law was immediately discussed to postpone its entry into force, precisely in order to allow for the verification of the case and allow the Government to adopt, where appropriate, corrective decrees. Since May, the Commission has been talking about the extension of justice: every time there has always been a delay in the situation, always waiting for these corrective decrees to come. If she was so convinced that corrective decrees should not be adopted, since this reform had to be done, why has the Commission and this House been constantly talking about the arrival of probable corrective decrees? Thus, in the Committee on Justice, we have reached a decision on the extension to 24 July. Subsequently, in early August, the Government itself accepted an agenda of the Northern League, in which it undertook to adopt corrective decrees. Why, then, do you come here today to deny and say that the reform had to stand still? Not only that. We ask ourselves another question, which always concerns the arcane way of proceeding in Italy: but between majority and government do you talk to each other? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Morra]] Is the Government an emanation of this majority? If that is the case, then how is it possible that the majority in Parliament has repeatedly pointed out that there are problems and problems? What does the government do? The corrective decree doesn't come. Talk to each other? Is there a possibility of communication? The suspicion also comes because, again in the context of this arch proceedings, in the Commission we have decided on the extension and we have approved it by majority, while, then, in early August, in the first Bureau, in which the timetable was decided, this extension has not been scheduled. But, then, did the majority want the extension or didn't want it? That's what we're asking ourselves. We had time: we worked all the first week of August. [[Applause from Senator Cappelletti]] I see that these Members also work in the evening. When it is time to convene Commissions and Juntaes, time and work devotes itself to it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We could very well approve of the extension here, if it is true that Parliament wanted it, as is still being said in the media. I also hear the majority's rebuke of the government. We could do that and we didn't want to do it. But the question is another. If it is true that Parliament wanted one thing, which was expressed in the opinions of the Senate and on the agendas (not only that of the League, which has been accepted, but also that of the PD, which has been voted here), how can the Government now go in a different direction? That sounds really bad. How is it possible for the Government to act without recognition from Parliament? It sounds very bad, it is not proper of a democratic structure. But I don't want to doubt that. I do not want to use all the time, because I believe that mistakes have now been made. It is useless to continue to wish and to insist that the Minister now adopts these corrective decrees. The omelet's done, the problems are already in progress. Anyone who works in the courts realizes what that means. Now the reform has come into force: how do you go back? How do you, after you have made a transfer or a suppression, go back? There was time. From the beginning of this parliamentary term until now there was time, so it is pointless for the majority to continue to raise hopes. The omelet is done, the mistakes have been made, this reform has come into force and the problems have been created. I hope that then, over the years, you will realize that perhaps something may have also brought good fruit. There is another mistake. I am sorry to say this to you, Madam Minister, because you are a highly esteemed person, but it is a mistake. How is it possible that instead of the corrective decree comes this abstruse ministerial decree, by which, for some courts, a form of extension is granted in order to be able to exhaust the pending cases, limited to certain areas? This creates a further mess. This is what they see: people are working on it here in this House. They are here in the gallery and they are looking at us; they know what it means to work in a court of law, the problems that also creates this ministerial decree. At this point, if she was so convinced that the reform should be done in this way, it should not be adopted. In Italy we cannot make a norm and immediately stick a patch to try to buffer or to save ourselves politically. That's not how it works. In conclusion, with this ministerial decree and the way the government and the majority are acting, I say only, as Giordano Bruno had done, that perhaps you tremble more in making this sentence than we do in listening to it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PdL and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u51	Senator Albertini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, after listening to the speeches of my fellow Members and in anticipation of those I will listen to, knowing of the next speakers the personality, membership and opinions they have expressed here and elsewhere, we will be almost alone with our good reasons for fully agreeing as a Group and as a person with your initiative and the courageous decision you have taken. As often happens to all of us when we are faced with conflicts, when we have to live the conflict of different opinions, the difficulty of deciding in what we believe is right and maybe even opportune, we happen to evoke something of our own, intimate, the convictions that have made our education, the values in which we believe. As I listened to you speak, with the difficulties you encountered in supporting this provision and the oppositions that in this House, in the territories and in the dialogue with the various corporations belonging to this decision, I came to mind two Latin quotes; you will allow me the civetteria to recall them. One is the motto of a friend and teacher of mine, a Jesuit, cardinal of Milan: pro veritate adversa diligare. Another is a motto that the Jesuit fathers taught me (school I attended for twelve years) and that is usually applied to support the contradictory, but that in this case also applies to political decisions (and it seems to me that you, despite not having attended the Jesuit school, not being able to do it as a lady, have applied it rigorously and consistently). This motto says: it grants parum, denies saepe, distinguishes semper. You have applied it fully, rigidly in the principles of application and flexibility in behavior to adopt it. After this debut and in order not to prevent others from criticizing it, I will make a brief exposition of why we consider this necessary measure, even if opposed and difficult to apply, although susceptible to the updates and improvements that the functional path will allow. Perhaps not everyone knows that the World Economic Forum has defined our country, in the ranking of the efficiency of the legal system in defining disputes, in 145th place on 148 that have been considered. The benchmarks for the efficiency in determining disputes relate to the duration of proceedings and the predictability, according to the written law, to the law in force, of decisions. Moreover, the OECD and the International Monetary Fund have also widely addressed the criterion of the efficient judicial system as one of the main factors for a country's competitiveness. Our justice system is undermined at the root by an excessive duration, by a cumbersomeness of procedures, by a articulation - and we come to the point that concerns us - of judicial geography, which dates around, if I am not mistaken, in the second half of the nineteenth century. You can imagine the conditions that have changed since then and the organisational diseconomies and excessive costs that this fixed system, in a changing framework, in such a changing social and economic complexity, has determined. Indeed, studies on the efficiency of the courts have shown that, as happens in the Italian economy, it is medium-sized enterprises, even more than small or very large, that can be efficient. In fact, it has been shown that the judicial offices that work best are those that have a staff ranging from 30 to 60 magistrates, with relative interventions in support of the structure of administrative staff. This is the criterion that inspired the intervention in question, because if on the one hand the small judicial offices, almost inconsistent in their size, were closed, but they had a high structural and organizational cost, on the other hand, as regards metropolitan offices of large cities such as Milan, Turin and Naples, intervened to make the operating system more accessible. The Constitutional Court - you mentioned it, Madam Minister - had given indications for the application of this rule, which you have duly complied with in making this courageous decision. I would also like to stop on another point, which is an orthogonal consequence of the different distribution, of the rationalization of these interventions, which not only involves the closure of some courts and the amalgamation of others, according to very lucid and objective parameters, but also, as a result of this, a different distribution of organic plants. In fact, when the offices are redesigned in more rational terms (180,000 inhabitants, average annual survival of 6.874 total affairs, basic criterion), also the structures, both of the judicial professionalism, that is, of the magistrates, and of the administrative staff, as well as the specialization of some courts for specific competences, can be better organized. It is with these framework considerations that, even in the presence of the critical issues that we all recognize, we want to give our convinced, determined and absolutely coherent contribution to the decisions that you, Madam Minister, and the Government in office, to which we give our support, have adopted, aware that, recalling the Jesuit motto in its final part: "It distinguishes always," during these two years of experimentation, you will be able to face the critical issues and remodulate them. In this connection, you mentioned in your introductory speech already two measures in preparation to improve the set of experiential data. At that point we will see, as often happens in many other circumstances, that the criticalities that have been revealed, sometimes with a prejudice, will be overcome by the judgment of efficiency, not only economic, but also functional, that a good functioning of the judicial offices will allow to express. This will perhaps allow us, not only in civil matters, but also in criminal matters, to prevent our country from paying a salty bill. On this point, I quote a very dramatic figure: in 2012 alone, the European Court of Human Rights made reparations to persons recognised as victims of violations of EUR 176 million; of this figure, 120 million are charged to Italy for judgments in contempt of the general rule of fairness and justice. Thank you, Madam Minister, for the courage you have shown. You have our support. We may not be many, but the facts are stubborn. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Collina]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u53	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u54	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I could easily join the cahier de doléances so far, apart from the last speech you have just made, in recalling the many critical issues, concerns and very negative assessments relating to how this plan of reordering of judicial geography will have entered our classrooms from here to two days. But I don't want to follow those who wisely and accurately identify the criticalities, because all this to you and to the Dicastery that you lead is already known. Indeed, as we know, in the Justice Commission there has been a talk for months, especially by representatives of the forces of the majority who support your Government, about the opportunity to postpone the entry into force of the law in order to give time to put in place the optimizations and adjustments necessary to avoid the small major disaster - and I am not pessimistic by nature - that we fear will occur from here to the coming week. Moreover, I have already booked the copy of the newspapers of next September 17 to see, at the resumption of the judicial activity of the Italian courts, what will be the consequences of this plan of reorganization and what will be happening throughout Italy, from the North to the South. Maybe I'm too pessimistic, I don't know, we'll see. I, too, would like to join the optimism of Senator Albertini, as well as the call of the Senator of the League, who hopes that in the course of the work we can adjust and improve the text. The truth is that mine, our pessimism seems to be based on considerations that you probably won't remember, because who knows how many voices you will have heard, much more authoritative than mine, ours. I do not know if he remembers a hearing held on 28 May in the Senate Justice Commission, in which I asked if it was his understanding to continue in the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice on the basis of the previous Government. I referred then to a circumstance that is little known and that I like to remember, for those present and for those who will listen to these words later: the Document of Economics and Finance of the previous Government, the Monti Government, examined in the first weeks of this legislature, in the chapter on Justice bears an inscription, which suggests - finally, this time, black on white, expressis verbis - what we citizens, lawyers and operators of the law say to us by voice and of which, up to this moment, a written confession was missing. The Monti Government, supported - let's remember - by the same forces that today make up the current Government, in relation to the costs of civil and administrative justice indicated that: In order to decongest the courts, the Government has increased taxation on both second-degree and cassation proceedings as well as on the administrative process. Since January 2013, the unified contribution for appeals that are rejected has doubled. A prior eligibility check on the appeal request shall be introduced. If the appeal is declared inadmissible or inadmissible, a penalty shall be imposed on the proposer. In that case, the compensation due to the lawyer shall be reduced by half. What jumps to the eyes, written in black and white, is the precise understanding of these last governments, not only of the present, to solve the problem of justice, understood as the number of causes and the situation of paralysis of civil and criminal justice, with what is happening - and the new judicial geography is the further piece that will perhaps give the blow of grace to the already dying justice system - that is, essentially the desertification of justice, putting obstacles between the citizen and the request for the protection of his rights, protection nominally guaranteed by Article 24 of the Constitution, such as the increase of costs (the unified contribution is the tax that is paid to bring civil actions), the delegation to private bodies of the obligatory mediation and procedural traps that have little to do with obtaining an intrinsically fair judgment, mere procedural traps with which lawyers and magistrates will have to deal with. At that hearing, I asked her whether her ministry was in the same vein, i.e. whether she shared the political line that was intended to solve the problem of justice, the real problem, not that of the great accused. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , but what interests Italian citizens, discouraging them from advancing demands to protect their rights. In fact, the result that will be obtained, of course, is a decrease in the litigation obtained in this way, so forcefully, to hope that it will be less exposed to infringement proceedings in Europe. We who, behind our backs, have no interests of any kind, neither bell towers nor lobbyists (I would like to remind you on this occasion too) have the small great presumption of being free to give a pragmatic judgment on the measures of the Government and Parliament without ideological prejudices, approving what we share and opposing with the greatest of our forces if not. This is one of the cases in which we express opposition to the abandonment of territories by justice. As you and many others know (each of us knows the problems of our territory), there will be detached seats that disappear, citizens, lawyers, witnesses, technical consultants who will be forced to travel hundreds of kilometers with infrastructure conditions and connections, perhaps, bad and much more that we know and I am not here to repeat. Among other things, after me will intervene authoritatively representatives of the PdL and PD Groups who will surely emphasize all the criticalities and devastating effects that this reform will cause. I would just like to add to the conclusion that I am reminding and stigmatizing this unique circumstance, confirming that Parliament is so far deprived of its real function, that is, the possibility of political action together with the Government. Because that's what the Constitution says and the texts of constitutional law. Such a breakdown on occasions such as this appears to be of solar evidence. The colleagues of the majority who will intervene after me will strongly criticize his deafness regarding the repeated requests for analysis, listening, adoption of objective criteria, such as those identified in the Senate's Justice Commission in the last parliamentary term, which gave answers to an anachronistic situation, because certainly the current judicial geography is not functional to the current demographic and economic structure of the country as it has been outlined over the last hundred years and more. But not so, Madam Minister, not with linear cuts, not with the usual maneuvers of spending review that we see today apply to the field of justice, but tomorrow could affect health, education in this trend that seems to condemn us to the abandonment of the state and its primary and original functions. We're not in! I repeat this question, and I hope that you will have the opportunity and courtesy to answer it. I would like to know from you why, perhaps not by your personal will (because you are a highly esteemed and highly esteemed person) but by the will of the bureaucratic machine (we do not know what happens, because there is a blanket that prevents transparency, and even in our eyes of parliamentary citizens seems to be impenetrable), the parties of the majority have failed to impose the voice of reasonableness towards the government that they support. How is that possible? What's going on? What country do we live in? I would ask you, then, if you would kindly like to give me an answer to the question which I asked you at the hearing, whether you can confirm before the Italian people, in this House, whether the understanding of government action, at least in the area of justice, is aimed at resolving problems simply by deserting justice and making it more difficult to defend your rights in civil matters and by downloading to individuals the greatest costs of traveling, connecting difficulties and everything we know and what I avoid saying. If we have that answer, we will be very grateful to you. Good job. [[Applause from the M5S and PdL Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u56	Madam Minister, I believe we must remind everyone that the Italian Republic is a parliamentary Republic that sees Parliament at the heart of the institutions. Parliament not only represents the will of the people, but also the centrality of the institutions. Therefore, I can assess behaviour, in the sense that I strongly believe in the need for a constant dialogue between Parliament and the Government, provided that it is not formal, but substantial, that it has the ability to identify instruments, ways of intervention that have the ability to convince. So I very much appreciate what Senator Albertini said, because it is the reasons behind the change in the judicial districts wanted by the Berlusconi Government and, in particular, by the former Minister Palma. Madam Minister, on behalf of the Government, in order to obtain the approval of that measure in the parliamentary committees, I ensured that there would be a continuous relationship between the Government and Parliament. In fact, I wanted to avoid bell tower interests; I wanted to avoid discretion and guarantee efficiency to the overall system. The data quoted by Senator Albertini is a disgrace to our country. So we needed to create a system of efficiency and lower costs. The system created will lead to higher costs and lower efficiency. In the same spirit, I gave up the role of representative of the Government, came to Parliament and worked in the Justice Commission with the other senators to identify correctives aimed at ensuring efficiency. I did not want to guarantee - I am addressing, in particular, Senator Albertini - courts for every 100,000 inhabitants. We have identified the possibility of bringing the court to 380,000 with measures to correct the territories of jurisdiction. Reference has been made to the criteria for achieving greater efficiency. Madam Minister, in the 1970s docimology studies were carried out in France to verify which courts were more efficiently. A judicial office of over 400,000 people is beginning to be ineffective. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Buemi]] If we had identified a guarantee system with which each judicial office had 380,000 inhabitants, we would have agreed. Madam Minister, you referred the correction measures - thank God, at least those! - which he did for eight courts and about eighteen separate sections. You know better than I that the Commission's measure was concerned with those eight courts and in all thirty separate sections. In fact (it is well known), you had the total, unanimous agreement of Parliament for the elimination of the offices of the judges of peace in 190 branches, out of 19 courts. As far as the eight courts are concerned, none of us has asked you to save them as they were; but we have shown you how to find a different competence that would be more efficient. In addition to the eight courts, there was still Cream and Sala Consilina, which even belongs to a different Region, and it was possible to aggregate Eboli, the largest detached section in Italy, which has over 11,000 dossiers of survival. [[Applause from Senator Torrisi.]] Compared to these situations you cannot think of downloading the costs and saying that we will save. Madam Minister, I have a lot of faith in you, because I've known you since you were at the prefecture in Milan. I estimate you, but you can't tell me that there is savings, since spending will increase, for several orders of reasons. [[Applause from Senator Mancuso.]] In fact, the costs are discharged on other ministries, and I give two examples: how much does the conversion of the court of Chiavari cost, and how much does the conversion of the court of Bassano del Grappa cost? There are others, however. I do not want to say what it will cost in terms of translation to abolish the Sanremo Court. I told her that we only have Cream, Consilina Room and Nicosia; we also call Mistretta. Senator Buemi also raised the issue in this parliamentary term. It was enough to meet and understand the reasons for not being able to make those efficiency corrections. No one asked her to save the court of Chiavari as it is; we asked her to save the court of Chiavari, but to move the jurisdiction to Genoa, because this meant to diminish the work of Genoa and to have two strong and efficient officials. At the same time, we would have had a court of last construction attached to the prison. Those are things I don't have to tell you. We didn't get an answer. Why? The greatness of men is measured when you go back and you have the ability to admit that there is the possibility of correction. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Blundo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u57	Senator Caliendo, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u58	CALIENDO (PdL). The greatness of men occurs when I myself can admit to reviewing a certain previous decision of mine. You still have one year; then we will be forced to make legislative changes. I wouldn't want us to find ourselves like when 52 courts were suppressed by the stubbornness of the fascist government and then reconstituted by individual laws. I do not want this: I want to see an efficient reform at last, with lower costs. [[Applause from the PdL, PD, M5S and Senator Buemi Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u59	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u60	Madam Minister, our country is known because it has a huge difficulty in making reforms, and this is also reproached by international bodies, also in the field of justice. Our country can no longer do without reforms: the country will emerge from this crisis if it will use it as an historic opportunity, unprecedented, to carry out those reforms expected for years. And that of the judicial districts was a reform expected for two centuries. Well, Minister, we finally have a reform, which the Democratic Party wanted and in which it believes. However, the country has another curse, which is little talked about, but which is looming, which has already proved itself in the past and which is apparent when Parliament approves the reforms. Do you know what it is, Minister? It is the implementation of reforms. Here too, our country has a structural limit. Our country, even when it comes to good reforms, is lost at the time of their application. That is why, Minister, let us be clear, we ask you to apply the reform of judicial districts well and consistently. [[Applause from Senator Buemi]] And the criticism and the proposals that we put forward are in the light of this second aspect: we want this reform to be applied well and to escape from that curse of Italetta that, when put to the test of fire, realizes badly the reforms and obtains results opposite to those expected, to the point of saying that it was the reform that was wrong, that it was the one that was wrong. That is why we are asking you for cooperation: to prevent us from saying that the reform was wrong in a few months' time. Applying the reform consistently will save the idea, save the choice of the Government and the Parliament made in various legislatures to implement a modern and advanced measure in the reorganization of judicial offices. Minister, there were five criteria to follow for a good application of the reform, and you know them well: number of inhabitants, workloads, index of survivals, (attention, Minister) territorial specificity of the catchment area, also with regard to the infrastructural situation, and a fifth criterion, for me perhaps the most important, presence of organized crime. Minister, these two criteria are missing with the implementation of the reform, the one on which I asked for your particular attention. Look with intellectual honesty, Minister (who you have, who is recognized to you), at the five criteria and you will discover that the last two have not been taken seriously into account either in the implementing decree or, now, in the measures you have decided to favour with Article 8 of Legislative Decree No 155. That is why the proposal we put forward was consistent with the reform. It defined the number of courts to be kept alive, reorganizing them, putting them in line with all five parameters that I have reminded them, making them a resource and abandoning the path of small and inefficient courts. A limited number, with objective reasons, in line with the parameters set out in the law delegation on reform. This has not yet happened, and we continue to make that proposal. We have also asked you to pay attention to certain aspects that are already emerging, Minister. You know that there are merging courts that, logistically and structurally, are unable to receive the workload that has been assigned to them, so much so that in some cases the application of the reform had to be limited by Article 8. Then, rather than waiting for a negative result, a modern country expects, analyzes, plans, organizes and ensures that this result does not occur. Can you do that? Of course I do. There are cases where this reform will be badly discussed not only by national public opinion but also by international public opinion. You know, Minister, that millions and millions of euros have been spent in many courts: in the North, in the Centre, in the South, in my land, in Sicily. Those millions of euros spent until a few months ago will be set aside and the credibility of the spending review will receive a fatal wound from the application of this reform. This too, Minister, we all have a duty to correct and improve. We also told her to give priority to the courts to be saved; for the rest of the courts - I stress: for the rest - the solution could be used to turn them into detached sections. Madam Minister, look at the fact that the proposal of the principals has never been born of Parliament: it is a leap idea, I share it, perhaps even a bit ridiculous, born in the offices of the Ministry of Justice. It wasn't even his proposal. That is why the subject, which you rightly criticized, of judicial offices was not to blame Parliament: it is an issue that you must use to reproach your offices. We have asked her, also here with certain and objective parameters, to keep a few detached sections standing, in a position to offer the territory a modern service of justice: advanced, conscious, intelligent, efficient. I must thank the Members of my Group, 108 senators, for they have not made any localistic demands. They were able to exercise their parliamentary mandate, to speak with the territory, but not to get caught up in the logic of the localistic vandea. And they have put forward solutions that have reached it directly and with formal acts to correct the start of this reform and put it back in line with the parameters provided for by the delegation law. And I must also thank Parliament, I can tell you, trust me, unanimously. When we came down in concrete the same Civic Choice shared many of our solutions. Minister, do not be afraid of Parliament: it is a democratic resource and on the merits of this reform it has made serious proposals. Before the closing of the work on the summer break, just a month ago, it approved an agenda signed by all the groups, which made very serious proposals. Therefore, trust this Parliament, listen to it, because here there is no desire to upset the reform. There is a need to listen to the territory, to adopt the most advanced and coherent solutions and to speak with the Government in order to ensure that Italy, for the first time, knows not only to launch the reform, but also to apply it well and consistently. Madam Minister, the corrective decrees are in your availability, they are provided for by law. Parliament, of course, will now have to decide how to proceed with its own demands. We will do everything we can to prevent legal initiatives from being presented on the individual courts to maintain a coherent plan, but you will ensure that corrective decrees avoid this drift and, through them, correct the application of the reform by making it consistent with the law of delegation. It transforms reform into a great opportunity to tell the whole world that Italy can launch reforms, but it also knows how to apply them well. [[Applause from the PD groups, PdL, and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u61	I thank Minister Chancellors for his willingness. I am sure he will be sensitive to all the requests from this House and from all the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u64	BONDI (PdL). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for allowing me to leave my views to the record. I understand my group's colleagues who have reminded us that Parliament has approved an act of direction which the Government cannot ignore. However, I believe that the majority of us are not consistent: on the contrary, we are not even serious. This country will never change if we go on like this. We are not consistent, because we are all talking about modernization, reduction of costs, change of Italy and renewal in the meetings, in the squares and in the debates on television. Then, though, when we are tested, we act diametrically opposed. We're not consistent. We're not serious. We don't want to modernise the country. When we're struggling with a real issue, let's take a step back. I shall conclude with one final comment. In front of us we have the huge problem of reform of justice. This is also a problem for us, on our own, which concerns our President, our parliamentary group, our party. Do we really think that the problem of justice in Italy is the detached seats? I don't think so. I think this reform, Minister, is a good measure, a serious measure. As far as I am concerned, in a very personal capacity, I say to you, Minister: you are a serious person, go ahead. Do something good and serious for all Italians and for this country, who really needs it. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u65	I once again thank the Minister of Justice, Dr. Chancellors.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u66	The next item is the resolution on requests for the adoption of the abbreviated procedure provided for in Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure for draft law No 119 concerning protected areas, for the identical draft law no. 120 and 370, concerning the reform of the harbour legislation, and for the bill n. 121, with provisions in environmental matters. I would remind you that on these requests the Assembly shall act without debate, by show of hands; only explanations of vote shall be allowed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for the adoption of the abbreviated procedure for draft law No 119.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u69	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the North League on parks is very different from that of draft law No.119, of which we are now called to vote on the statement of urgency, aimed at amending the framework law on protected areas No. 394 of 1991. I would like to stress that the North League is in favour of all those actions that counter the tendency to loss of biodiversity, through the protection of protected areas and ecosystems. This is both in order to meet the objectives set at Community and international level, and in order to preserve the human species itself, on whose health scientific studies show how the stability of ecosystems is positively affected. Our country holds the European primacy in biodiversity, has an important endowment of habitats, many of these declared priorities at Community level. Between national and regional parks and protected marine areas, about 12.5% of the entire national territory is protected: a percentage that, if added to SCI (sites of Community interest) and special protection zones, reaches almost 22%. It is a resource that needs to be properly exploited and not treated as a mere territorial constraint. Protected areas, therefore, which must not represent a problem, especially for the economic activities located within them for years, but an opportunity for development, also for tourist purposes, and for the preservation of the traditions and identities of the territories. The North League believes, as we have reiterated in the discussion of motions on hydrogeological failure, that the regions and local authorities must play a key role not only in the protection of water, in the protection of soil and areas at risk, but also in the protection of the environment and the landscape. For us, the regions and local authorities, that is, the institutions closest to the needs of the territory and the communities of the citizens, must be responsible for the governance of the protected areas and the co-planning landscape, according to instruments of regulation not limited to constraints and prohibitions, but directed towards active forms of land use and involvement of the population. For us, the continued existence of national protected areas now responds to the needs of mere financing of the current expenditures of the park institutions and, given the limited resources available, affects only those less virtuous entities that are unable to develop financing through appropriate self-financing practices, sustainable tourism development and the promotion of typical products. We are convinced that we need a radical rethink of the financial needs of protected areas and a general regionalisation of national protected areas. These are questions which the bill No 119 does not address in any way. I would remind you that, in the last parliamentary term, we talked about the possibility of transforming park bodies into associations or foundations and also of transforming national park bodies into regional bodies, providing funding through fiscal federalism. These are issues in which bill No 119 does not intervene at all. Another element that we cannot support is the fact that Article 7 of the draft law in question further limits the animal welfare levies and possible selective reductions, which are necessary to recompose ecological balances in the protected areas, providing for the preventive and binding opinion of the ISPRA (Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research), which is a central body, or a multiannual protocol of understanding concluded with the same institution. It is a direction which is diametrically opposed to what we want; it is better then to allow these issues to be addressed directly by the park bodies, within the framework of the park regulations. It is therefore a further centralization, which goes in the opposite direction to that drawn by the North League. In conclusion, both for the reasons given, which come into the substance of the measure, and with the urgency procedure will follow a short examination that will compress the general debate, and because by the end of the year the conference, announced by the Minister of the Environment, on protected areas, biodiversity and green economy, which should lead to general reflection useful to the amendment of the framework law on protected areas, the North League declares a vote against the adoption of the urgency procedure, but does not give up proposals amending and improving the measure [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u72	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, Citizen's Choice is in favour of the adoption of the urgency procedure, because this is done for a measure that has already been dealt with in depth in the last parliamentary term (if I am not mistaken, it was approved on the last day of the parliamentary term) and that I believe it is worth considering again, although, of course, this will not prevent further in-depth discussions, particularly in the Commission, to introduce any changes and arrive at a text that agrees with the intentions of the majority and the government on this issue. Some of the points made by my colleague in the League are acceptable, but we need to see how we will deal with them in the legislative process. The important thing is to realise that adopting an emergency procedure does not mean rushing to work, but it means having the awareness and determination to arrive at a proper and reasonable time to put in place a modernisation measure that we believe is very important. I therefore declare the vote in favour of the Civic Choice Group. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u75	BLUNDO (M5S). President, ladies and gentlemen, our country has many emergencies: some are true, because they are caused by natural disasters or by the needs and needs of citizens; others are clearly false and created ad hoc [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , happens exactly coinciding with the interests of some strong groups of power or lobby and even individual people, thus disowning the real urgency of the country, which are remembered only in the TV lounges. I am referring, above all, to the revival of employment, the restoration of legality and public ethics as the cornerstones of society, as well as to prevention of hydrogeological disasters, the protection of the environment, air quality and the health of citizens. It is acceptable, at most, to take urgent action if there is a need to improve something when, in a given area of some legislative gaps or regulatory gaps, attempts are made to remedy them quickly, identifying its more effective regulation. But in this draft law on protected areas, ladies and gentlemen, exactly the opposite of what has just been said: the amendments to Framework Act No. 394 of 1991 are on the whole uneven and, as all too often happened in the past, significantly worsen the goodness of the existing regulatory system. The 5 Star Movement does not consider the Law No. 394 of 1991, untouchable but believes that its modification cannot be separated from a serious and careful assessment on the application of the legislation and on the current state of the parks and nature reserves of our country. Our Group has also prepared a bill on this subject, which provides for an opening only in the playful-educational and sporty, as well as cultural dimension. We note, however, Mr President, that the method used in this parliamentary term is the same as that used in the previous parliamentary term. Although there has not been a broad involvement of all those interested in relaunching the role of parks and nature reserves, a necessary and necessary step to ensure the effective conservation of the country's natural heritage, we now want to act as a matter of urgency, even limiting the comparison of texts in this House. Then there are many aspects of bill 119 that leave us perplexed. First of all, the distinction between hunting and wildlife control, albeit under the supervision of ISPRA, the Ministry of the Environment's Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research. A direct involvement of hunters in the management of fauna within protected natural areas is envisaged in this respect. The current legislation, however, already allows intervention by the park agencies for the management of problems that some species - mainly wild boar - can determine if present in supernumber. The planned reform risks opening the doors to hunting in the parks, thus satisfying interests that have nothing to do with the conservation of precious biodiversity in our country. There are also considerable concerns about the rules introducing royalties in favour of the managing bodies, as compensation for the impacting installations present in the parks or intended to be carried out, such as the SNAM pipeline, which would cross many of them, including the national parks of Maiella, the Sibillini mountains and the Gran Sasso and 21 between sites of Community interest and areas of special protection. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, all these provisions, which are not thoroughly evaluated, are likely to lead to serious constraints in the management of the natural resources of the protected territories, since it is proposed to amend the procedures for the appointment of presidents and directors. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]] Colleagues, in this draft law, on which we are about to vote on the abbreviated procedure, neither are the nodes of the classification of Italian parks, their legal status, the repeated linear cuts to staff, the utopia of self-financing. Gentlemen, the speech is structured and cannot be dealt with by non-organic amendments to Law No 394 of 1991 and, much less, by urgent procedure and abbreviated rite. For these reasons, today, we will solemnly vote against this inappropriate and unacceptable statement of urgency. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We also hope for a broad reflection, your possible rethinking and the opening of a true and loyal confrontation with all operators in the park sector before restarting, in the appropriate times and ways and with the effectiveness and seriousness that the issue requires, the process of reform of framework law No. 394 of 1991. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senator Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u76	In order to give space to the speeches at the end of the sitting, I shall postpone the follow-up to the deliberations on requests for the adoption of the abbreviated procedure provided for in Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure for the drafts of law for the afternoon sitting, after the information given by the President of the Council of Ministers on the G20 Summit in St Petersburg.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u79	FAVERO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor to speak on a situation which at the moment is very worrying to all the signatories of Question 4-00814, which has been tabled. Today is a very particular date, which reminds us of a tragedy not forgotten: that of 9/11. Another major tragedy is taking place near Italy at the moment: it is the conflict in Syria. According to data from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and UNICEF, 100,000 people have lost their lives for more than two years since the beginning of the conflict. Of these, the children killed would be as many as 7,000, of which one third under the age of ten. In addition, more than three million children are exposed to disease and violence. According to data, the number of refugees since the beginning of the 2011 conflict in Syria would be more than two million, refugees in neighbouring states, and of these as many as one million are children. Nearly two million pupils in compulsory education have dropped out of school during the last academic year. UNICEF has been involved in social and health care for children fleeing the conflict in Lebanon, Turkey, Jordan and Iraq; it has created spaces for children, where, in addition to traditional material care (meals and adequate clothing) and health care, there are play areas, psychosocial support services for children and teenagers alone and assistance for family reunification. We know of so many lonely children from Syria that every day the counters land on our shores. We learned from the media that on August 21st in three hospitals in Damascus, where 3,600 patients were hospitalized, 355 people died and among these many children. The horror of those photographs is still in our eyes. The use of nerve gas against the population was hypothesized and the survey completed on 29 August gave results. We know that the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Letta, has reiterated the firmest condemnation of the use of chemical weapons against the Syrian civilian population as an act repugnant to the conscience of the Italian people and as a crime against humanity. This blatant violation of international law is unacceptable and those responsible must be brought to international justice. We've signed several conventions, so we talk a lot. We in the Democratic Party, who have submitted this question, would like to know what initiatives are being taken at European and international level by the Italian Government to ensure that the Syrian authorities respect the civil, political, economic and social rights established by the International Children's Conventions in favour of children who are victims of war. We would also like to know whether and what actions Italy intends to promote to strengthen humanitarian intervention in Syria, safeguarding the civilian population, women, the elderly and in particular children, in order to prevent further violent repression against the defenceless in Syria. We have distinguished ourselves and we are also distinguishing ourselves at this time for the humanitarian actions that our soldiers and the armed forces in general are carrying out all over the world: we would like this good practice to continue for the protection of children and helpless people in particular. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u82	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to talk to you about a fact which, as a citizen, struck me a few years ago. This is a case of a mafia which concerns in particular a citizen, Dr Attilio Missa; a good boy who comes from a good family, an excellence of medicine, a urologist of great prospects. Well, in 2004 Attilio, who today would be roughly my age, was found dead. The investigations - which I do not want to qualify and which, for the role I play, I can do nothing but accept but not share, because full of gaps - have decreed that Attilio died of an overdose. Yet, he was a person who had never been drugged and, even from the reliefs made, there was no trace of a hole on his arms. It is a history of mafia because three distant cities - (Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto, Viterbo and Marseille) - are united by a single thread, which clearly is that of Bernardo Provenzano, who was operated in a hospital in Marseille in 2003. Well, in 2003 Attilio was in Marseille. Probably, Bernardo Provenzano also visited Viterbo, the city where Attilio had moved and worked. Mr President, there is no worse thing than to find ourselves as ordinary citizens fighting the mob alone, and that is what happened to the Missing Family. I ask you and I will also ask the Minister through an inspection act to verify, for his powers, whether there are conditions to activate an inspection procedure within the Viterbo Public Prosecutor's Office to invest the Anti-Mafia Directorate of this case, so that they are carried out, in depths targeted by a pool with specific experience. It cannot all be silenced like this: today a mother and a whole city are regretted, just as I am. I shall conclude my speech and thank you, Mr President, for the extra seconds you have given me. I would like to address all of you, colleagues: Attilio could be my brother, but so could yours. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u85	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would also like to make an appeal to the Minister for Defence in relation to a phenomenon which is not normal on our part. I am talking about Val di Fassa, a valley of Trentino that has never recorded criminal episodes, if not minimal, where during the four days included in the period August 28-1st September happened what had never happened in history: grasshoppers arrived, with episodes in almost all hotels, thefts in 14 tourist facilities, other cases accidentally foiled. At the same time, similar events took place in the Sella Group (Val Gardena) and in the Valle d'Ampezzo. Even in the Primiero there was a robbery, with the owner of a hotel that was threatened directly. The social alarm is very high. The hotel tourist system felt the need to call meetings, inviting the police, to explain that the situation is unmanageable and that there is a need for greater presence and vigilance, especially during the night, because during the day, good or bad, they are all awake. I have done a verification at the structures of the police forces of the area and adding the staff of the two stations of Canazei and Vigo di Fassa and of the company of Cavalese emerges a deficiency of 27 units. We're clearly below the staff. The valleys of Fassa and Fiemme are the highest concentration of tourist valleys. The population is 35-40,000, but during the summer and winter seasons it increases considerably, thanks to the 140,000 beds between hotels and second homes. The appeal that has been made to me, and that I am transferring to the government at this point, is not to leave these territories in the grip of new criminal organizations, because this is being dealt with. In other areas, we know that organised crime runs the territory; fortunately, this is not the case in our area. We would like to avoid such a hypothesis. The Minister of Defense will maximize the presence of law enforcement, because the alternative would be do-it-yourself justice. We do not accept this state of affairs on our side. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u88	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, 11 September is a bad date. Today it is not only the anniversary of the collapse of the twin towers, which my colleague rightly recalled, but also the 40th anniversary of the Chilean coup, which led to the death of Salvatore Allende. In commemoration of that event, also in order to understand the scope of a thought that was cut off by force, I would like to reread the intervention that the Chilean President gave at the UN in 1972: We are faced with a real frontal confrontation between the great international corporations and the States. These suffer interference in fundamental, political, economic and military decisions by world organizations that do not depend on any state. For their activities they are not accountable to any government, they are not subject to the control of any parliament or any institution representing the collective interest. In short, the political structure of the world is about to be upset. The large multinational companies not only pay attention to the interests of the developing countries, but their uncontrolled and dominating action also acts in the industrialized countries in which they are based. Trust in ourselves, which increases our faith in the great values of humanity, gives us the certainty that these values must prevail and cannot be destroyed. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-99.ana.u89	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 10.01 p.m.
