ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 884. Senator Crosio asked to speak on the order of business. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u5	Mr President, we would like to ask the Government and the rapporteur to reflect on the need for a more thorough and timely examination of this measure, because we have seen that there are imperfections in the accompanying report which we consider to be substantial. To this ratification, which is extremely important for our country, our Group is absolutely favorable, in the awareness that it is also the future of gas supply for Italy. In fact, this important work - over 800 kilometres of gas pipeline - which will bring up to 20 billion cubic metres a year is of great interest; but, as I said, there are imperfections that perhaps it is useful to clarify. In the report it is written that in order to realize the cross-border gas pipeline has been constituted the company Trans Adriatic Pipeline AG (AG stands for "anonymous company"), with center in the Swiss Confederation, whose company structure is being defined, and so far would be constituted: the Swiss company Axpo holds 42.5 percent of the share package, the Norwegian company Statoil 42.5 percent and the German company E.ON Ruhrgas 15 percent. Well, already here we have seen a discord because the aforementioned society, that precisely has seat in the Swiss Confederation, and more precisely in Baar, in the canton of Zug, in the register of commerce of the canton turns out to have been constituted in 2007, with a share capital - the minimum required by the Swiss law - of 100,000 francs; in the course of these years it has had several changes of corporate structure until the last change, at the end of July of this year, that has brought the share capital to 134,260,000 francs. The company includes, as legal representatives, presidency, vice-president, members of the board of directors, Norwegian citizens, two Belgian citizens, two French citizens, two British, two Azerbaijanis and one Swiss citizen; none of the companies described in the report accompanying the bill are included. Anyone who knows Swiss company law knows very well that an anonymous company in Switzerland is not obliged to declare shareholders, unless they have real estate in the Swiss Confederation, so hypothetically these companies might have the share package specified in the report. This is not the case, because the company stated that, in the state of the art, the share package is held 20 percent by British Petroleum, 20 percent by Socar (the Azerbaijani company), 20 percent by Norwegian Statoil, 16 percent by Belgian Fluxys, 10 percent by French Total, 9 by German E.ON Ruhrgas, and 5 percent by Axpo. This means that the society that according to the report was to have 42.5 percent instead holds 5%, which is why there is a strong discrepancy between what is written in the report and the state of the art. We believe that at a time like this, in which our country is experiencing a situation quite worrying with regard to the events of Telecom and Alitalia, with the arrival of capital from abroad and therefore with a company upheaval, if Parliament gives mandate to the Government to ratify this international agreement, it must have at least the cards on the table. Among other things, I would like to stress that there are also problems for the future, in the sense that we will give this company a mandate to implement and manage an important pipeline. As far as the profits and revenues of the company are concerned, this will regulate them with the countries covered by the agreement - namely us, Albania and Greece - on the basis of bilateral agreements between the countries themselves and the nation in which the company itself resides. Too bad it has its seat in the Swiss Confederation, and unfortunately - I stress this - we have not yet perfected the bilateral agreements on double taxation. I also understand that the Swiss Confederation for the moment is still included, only by our country, in the famous black list, and this would certainly create a juniper with regard to all the issues of the profits that derive from this important investment that is made, since for the realization of this important work it is said that it will be necessary 24 billion American dollars. I therefore believe that it is also appropriate to regulate the issues of profits. Unfortunately, I must also point out that within this package we have not found a clear and timely reference to the interests of our country. It is not mentioned that ENI has a share, nor Snam Rete Gas or others. At this moment of great suffering in the country with regard to international corporate issues and the great Italian industrial project we are a little 'disconcerted by the fact that this is not punctually clarified. Or rather, it would be right for it to be made clear that there are any agreements that we do not know about. Let us make this reflection in a very cooperative spirit, stressing the fact that the Northern League Group is not opposed to this measure. On the contrary, we are so much in favour that we ask for a more organic reflection in order to be able to decide in a serene way, which is now more difficult to do given the lack of clarity. The cards leave no doubt about it. The reflection that you, Mr President, want to put to the Government and the rapporteur is as follows: if it is not appropriate to find a solution to modify the report or to make the Senate more transparent, since we are talking about energy and a gas supply that will affect the country for the next thirty years. I believe that this reflection can be useful to Parliament in order to avoid bad figures, but also to the Government in order to place itself in the international sphere with a credibility that, in any case, must be strengthened. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u8	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the text before us today, as it is clear, contains, as it were, a series of inconsistencies. We believe that it is absolutely necessary that the examination of the measure should be postponed, because a preliminary and a suspensive question has also been referred to it. The suspensive question posed by my Group among the aspects considered posed the problem of corporate structure, in addition to those relating to EIA and others. However, we have put forward a suspensive question about elements that are no longer true today. I therefore believe that the postponement of the examination is most appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u9	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the question represented by Senator Crosio.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u10	Mr President, the emphasis of Senator Crosio, in particular, raises a real problem, in the sense that the introductory report refers to a different form of company from today's. Since it is objectively true that the Government has spent a great deal of money on the conclusion of the TAP - and we know how much it has had to fight against Europe too, which preferred other pipelines that went in the direction of Central Europe without going through our country - it is good that there is absolute and definitive clarity on this project. And the question of the ownership of the TAP itself is not irrelevant. The report is also historically impeccable, in the sense that, at the time it was written, it took up exactly the corporate configuration of the TAP. However, the subsequent update, on 30 July, objectively changes the structure of the company itself. It is therefore important, in my opinion, that there should be an in-depth discussion on this point by the Government and, subsequently, by the rapporteur. For this reason, Mr President, I would like to welcome the request for referral to the House to examine the measure immediately, at the first useful session, in order to allow the Government to prepare an oral report to complement the introductory report, which allows everyone to know exactly the situation of this strategic company - I must say - in the energy hub that could become our country thanks also to this infrastructure installation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u11	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to the remarks made by Senator Crosio and to the points made by the rapporteur. Senator Romani has rightly observed that these are crucial aspects, and it was my intention to provide you with a timely update on the situation today. On the other hand, the report was produced before the changes in the corporate structure, which took place - as has been correctly mentioned - on 30 July. I therefore think it is right that an update should give the Government the opportunity to intervene again both on the corporate structure and on the sales that have been there in the meantime, during the month of September, on the gas volumes of the TAP. What I would like to stress, however, is that the ratification of this international agreement by the Senate is absolutely crucial and it is essential that it be done quickly. As a government we are therefore more than willing to provide the required updates. I would urge the Senators, at the Conference of the Leaders, to schedule the treatment of this measure as quickly as possible because, as you know, the TAP consortium will have to take a final investment decision in the near future. It is therefore absolutely crucial that the Italian Parliament ratify this agreement after the parliaments of Greece and Albania.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u12	Colleagues, if there are no comments, it remains established that the examination of the measure is postponed to another session, according to the decisions to be taken by the Conference of the Leaders. At this point, since other issues are already on the agenda for tomorrow's afternoon sitting, we shall now proceed to the speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u15	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, following the latest interviews with Carmine Schiavone, a camorrist co-worker of justice since 1993, we asked the Minister for the Environment to promote all appropriate initiatives in order to respond to the requests of the Coordination of Fireworks Committees. I quote here some of these requests. It was asked, first of all, to make public, in detail, the places of the spills of which the camorrista has spoken and to carry out carpet analysis in the vast territory cited by Carmine Schiavone and previously also by other repentant (see, for example, Gaetano Vassallo). (Brusio). Please listen, ladies and gentlemen, because this is a fundamental issue, at least for us bell towers. It was also requested that due attention be given to the problem of the illegal disposal of hazardous waste in the Campania region, and in particular in the territories north of Naples and south of Caserta, both in terms of the protection of public health and of the possible connections of this phenomenon with the activities of malavitous organisations and, consequently, in order to ascertain the prerequisites, that the state of emergency should be declared. Furthermore, as Senator Moronese told the Presidency on 4 September in this House, the House's historical archives were asked for all the documentation on the hearings held since 1997 by the Committee of Inquiry into the Waste Cycle, which are still secreted today. I am here to urge the Presidency and the Minister. As far as I am concerned, I cannot fail to recall the words which President Grasso gave at his inauguration: I dream that this House will become a glass house and that this choice will infect all the other institutions. This is a good opportunity to start putting the first glass plates in this House and infecting the other institutions, such as the Presidency of the House. Mr President, we want these documents. The citizens of Campania are sending a signal. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u18	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I rise to remind you of Federico Aldrovandi. It was September 25, 2005 when Federico Aldrovandi, at the age of 18, was on his way home on foot after spending an evening at the disco with his friends. When he arrived at the gate of Ferrara's racetrack, he was stopped by four policemen for a check-up. After a few moments he would have suffered a violent beating by police officers Paolo Forlani, Luca Pollastri, Monica Segatto and Enzo Pontani, finally sentenced to three years and six months for manslaughter. Federico was the victim of a violent beating by police officers. He was the victim, like Stefano Cucchi, Giuseppe Uva, Michele Ferulli, of those who should have protected his young life and should prevent, and not tolerate, the use of violence against people: the State. On his birthday, Father Lino hoped that men of good will would learn from this horrible history in our country. The toxicological tests and medical reports have certified his innocence and a reflection, colleagues, at least today (but not only today) we should do it: he could have been the son of anyone, our son, and he had not hurt anyone. The agents involved would prepare to return to service, after serving only six months, for the indult, despite having beaten an innocent to bring him to the crushing of the heart, careless of his invocations for help, and despite having pronounced very serious sentences, said by Enzo Pontani and Monica Segatto, during the beating. "We knocked hard for half an hour," said Enzo Pontani; and Monica Segatto: "Moderate that there are lights on." Imagine that these people can return to dress a uniform or even occupy administrative positions within the State Police itself... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator. BLUNDO (M5S). Mr. President, let me finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It must conclude: there is a time to be respected. BLUNDO (M5S). I'll finish. ...it would be an offense to the many workers who in this period are being fired not for killing, but for the mistakes of our policy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u21	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, I note that once again the Aldrovandi case is referred to this House. I hope there will be an opportunity and a place in the Commission, either in justice or in this House, where we can calmly reason on matters that go far beyond this case. I respect the sentence, but it must be said what it has arranged. The cops were convicted of manslaughter for holding the Aldrovandi on the supino floor with his arms handcuffed behind his back. This clashes with the expertise of the prosecutor, who at first attributed death to the drugs ingested by the boy, and this is demonstrated by the trial. According to Mrs. Aldrovandi's expert, if you keep a person on the floor bites, you may experience a heart attack. I would point out that this is exactly the same position that the Carabinieri, in front of Palazzo Chigi, had Preiti hold to stop him. When Preiti shot the carabinieri - you can look at all the photos - he was immobilized, put on the floor, with his arms handcuffed behind his back and with a carabiniere riding over his body. Then the real discussion to protect the citizen and law enforcement is that the commander of the police or police or the Minister of the Interior must explain how they should do police and police to stop a person in the case of struggle: if they can block it on the ground - as they foresee the current arrangements and as we see in all the films - or if instead it is a position that, in case of chance (this has written the judges), can cause a heart attack, so they respond not only criminally with the manslaughter, but also with the radiation. This is the real problem we have before us, beyond speculation, and that is what emerges from the procedural proceedings. In this case there was no malice. Manslaughter means, in fact, that they should - as it is written - predict that a person kept under arrest on supine ground, with his arms handcuffed behind his back and immobilized by an exponent of law enforcement, is at risk of losing his life, as then happened. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Then let's open a discussion on this. I would point out that, if Preiti had died in the position in which he was held, the policemen who stopped him in front of Palazzo Chigi would have been tried for manslaughter. I believe then that the Senate must reason on these things, beyond the emotions, in the guarantee of the citizens, but also of the law enforcement forces that often face situations in which they expose themselves directly in order to get to immobilize people who resist with violence.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u24	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, after the communication from my colleague, I am dealing with a much quieter and much more beautiful subject: the cycling world championships taking place in Florence during these hours, from 22 to 29 September. There has been no mention of this in this House and I am pleased to make a communication about this event, partly because, Mr President, nothing strange has happened yet. In fact, when there are these important events in the cities there is always a bit of fibrillation: we hope it will go well to the end. Three years ago Italy won the challenge against Spain and then the city of Florence was chosen for the performance of these championships. There was talk of good news, of a great victory of Italy and, in particular, of Tuscany (let me say it like Tuscany). In fact, as you know (maybe some of you enjoy this sport), many of the most important cyclists in the world are just Tuscans and I am pleased to mention them: Gino Bartali, Fiorenzo Magni, Gastone Nencini, Enzo Sacchi, Franco Bitossi, Mario Cipollini, Andrea Tafi, Paolo Bettini and Alfredo Martini, this great athlete who is now more than ninety years old and who is with us in Florence these days to celebrate the various side events; and, again, Franco Ballerini and, as far as women are concerned, Fabiana Luperini. It is a huge incentive, of course for our Tuscany, but also for Italy in general; consider that this event has brought thousands of athletes, journalists, fans and enthusiasts to the territory. We expect at least 400,000 tourists; we will count at weekends, but we are already on these numbers. 1,500 communication operators from 180 countries and 1,100 newspapers, TV, radio and web: a tourism incentive and a valorization of our cultural heritage. Consider that the competition passes from Piazza del Duomo, involving, therefore, the whole center of the city of Florence. I think it is a festive event, but also an opportunity for a great tourist and economic incentive for our country. I am also pleased to communicate this to my fellow senators, because I think it represents a beautiful challenge won - I always say it with some concern - from our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u27	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, on 17 September in Catania, my city, a city in which crime and the mafia are still present in mass and represent a problem of public order, a very important police operation took place, which saw the use of about twenty units of the police, of the forensics, technological detection teams, which went - Mr President, listen, because history has of the unlikely and the incredible if we were not in Italy - in the police station of Nesima, to verify, both by making photographic and technical surveys, and even acquiring images of televisions with closed circuit, if someone at that police station was favoring stray dogs: an activity of twenty policemen paid with the money of our citizens. With the money of our citizens, Mr President, they went there to check who fed stray dogs. They acquired the information from their colleagues, questioning them as if they were criminals, blocking the manager of the police station in his office and not having it removed, all this because they fed neighborhood dogs (figure provided by law), regularly microchiped and vaccinated. Mr President, the manager of the Nesima police station was removed for feeding stray dogs. It would be a laugh, Mr President, if it were not that the manager of the police station is a qualified person who was investigating large commercial groups in the area of influence of this police station. We would not wish that behind this removal, behind this unusual deployment of forces, of which we will ask the Minister's account, there were political and business mafia interests that the manager had trampled on. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] We will therefore turn to the Court of Auditors, because there is a clear damage to the treasury for the use of these resources for improper purposes and I would remind you that one of the first acts of the Anti-Mafia Commission will be to see what this executive was dealing with with with his work. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u30	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would like to ask the Presidency to urge the Government to respond to Question 4-00792 concerning a doctor, Fabrizio Cinquini, who was arrested on 22 July last, because, according to the magistrates who had him arrested, he was treating his patients with cannatherapy. You know, Mr President, that there is an extensive international scientific record of the use of this substance against cancer, AIDS and to combat the side effects of chemotherapy, such as nausea and vomiting. Dr. Cinquini, as a serious person, was trying, through a series of grafts (he never made personal use of cannabinoids), to select a hemp for medical use that, in small quantities, but with a high active substance, could be put at the service of medical therapies for the above types of patients. Well, Dr. Cinquini was arrested and even taken to an OPG, a judicial psychiatric hospital. We believe that this judiciary is showing a bit of aggression against doctors and scientists a little too bright. I remember the case of Dr. Boschi, the famous seismologist, and now Dr. Cinquini. We have gone back to treatments that evoke those once reserved for Galileo Galilei. Mr President, the question referred to is addressed to both the Minister for Health and the Minister for Justice. Instead of giving a prize (I don't say the Nobel Prize) to this doctor, he stops. If you start to stop science, soon the judges, who atavically resent doctors, will also arrest those who prescribe antibiotics for those who have infections and maybe give antiblasts to those who have cancers. Mr President, just to share this consideration with you aloud, Dr. Cinquini is still in prison, although he has not committed any crime and has not hurt anyone. He's a decent person. Because of the fact that he is a doctor he is arrested: it seems excessive. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u33	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I take the title of an article in an Apulian newspaper a few days ago: State Road 275, requests for reimbursements to expropriations, is controversy. The letters for reimbursement requests involve 13 expropriandi, citizens of Tricase, Alessano and Corsano. About 1,400 euros are now required, just before the date of 12 November: the date on which the Council of State will meet and will discuss, on the substance, the assignment of the task of designing a work destined to cross as many as 15 municipal territories, with very high impact on environmental structures. It is now a twenty-year project, conceived in the total darkness of old party rooms and without the involvement of civil society, which would present objective evidence of irregularities, already starting from the bureaucratic process. In fact, it is not a public invitation to tender, but the direct custody by the consortium SISRI to the company PROSAL srl. The necessary legal, geological, archaeological and other certifications do not appear. In addition, it is absent the signature at the bottom of the tables attached to the project submitted by PROSAL srl. On the other hand, it appears that ANAS SpA authorised payments for design costs in favour of the SISRI consortium which, in turn, gave amounts to PROSAL srl. It is already defined the indefinable and Salento makes its expenses. The Cape of Leuca, a beautiful corner of paradise in the heel of Italy, has long been undermined by a lobby of unscrupulous politicians and speculators who intend to destroy the only possibilities of the future of a land to which I myself belong. With my words today I want to light a beacon here on this matter on which: the State for too long did not exist, but we of the Five Star Movement want it to come back to exist. We want to permanently set aside the idea of artificial industrialization of the territories and Salento and to valorize those riches of our country that constitute an added value and unique in their kind. Citizens don't want to be polite. They want to listen, but above all respect. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u36	SCILIPOTI (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these days and, today, in particular, there is a wide debate on the issue of one of Italy's flagship flowers: Telecom, which has been sold these days. However, no one has posed a much more serious problem than Telecom's sale; I am referring to the privatisation of Telecom and all the flagship flowers that Italy had. I therefore believe that, when the President of the Council comes to report to Parliament on the Telecom affair, it will be time to reflect. The President of the Council will have to do it and we will have to do it in this House. In other words, we will have to reflect on the reasons for privatisation, asking ourselves where our parliamentarians were and what was the logic that led them to privatisation, taking into account the fact that, in the privatisation of our flagship flowers, we privatised the Bank of Italy. The Bank of Italy has been privatised, put into private hands, it is no longer the State and that difference between the real power and the commercial power of the currency, which once was of the Italian people and the Italian Government, today it is no longer of the people, it is no longer of the State. That difference, which served to help our citizens and to make the car go Italy, is no longer the Italians. This is a very serious fact and, then, as well as reflecting us, in this Parliamentary House, it must make the Government and President Letta reflect to review our position with regard to the Bank of Italy and return it to the Italians as soon as possible. In this way, we could certainly heal 80% of our public debt and create the conditions for the take-off of our Italy and our companies that today are in great difficulty. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u39	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that Senators Moronese and Nugnes are not here because they are fighting for us bells, for our lands and are taking part in an important meeting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is no need for any particular justification. Let us not doubt their commitment. PUGLIA (M5S). I thought it was appropriate to do so. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, in tomorrow's afternoon sitting, after the debate on motion 144 on war crimes, we will be going to the examination of bill 1015 of conversion of Decree-Law No 101, 31 August 2013, on rationalization in public administrations. Since today's sitting ends in advance, the relevant Commissions will be able to examine this decree, in which hundreds of amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u41	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-111.ana.u42	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.18.
