ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 27 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u4	I communicate that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Justice: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 78 of 1 July 2013, laying down urgent provisions for the execution of the sentence" (896).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u5	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] On 29 June, at the age of 91, Professor Margherita Hack, an internationally renowned astrophysicist, died in Trieste. Born in Florence on 12 June 1922, in 1964 he became the professor of astronomy at the University of Trieste. She was the first woman to run an astronomical observatory in Italy and under her impulse the research activity of the Trieste observatory conquered the notoriety and unanimous appreciation of the international scientific community. Member of the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei and of numerous international institutions and working groups, it was known to all Italians thanks to its tireless activity of scientific dissemination. Thanks to his writings, interviews and television participations, Margherita Hack has expanded the dissemination and knowledge of the great themes of astronomy and astrophysics to a non-academic audience. Her tenacity and passion for research were a coherent testimony to the reasons and ideals of scientific knowledge, which she interpreted as a real civil commitment. This commitment was rooted in the confidence that the tools of science would allow us to understand the origins and mechanisms of the universe's functioning. Trust meant to her not so easy optimism but rather constancy, rigour and seriousness in scientific research. In its last volume there is the sign of its demanding trait and at the same time aware of the limits of the scientific approach: science explains how, but not why of life. From the awareness of the potentialities and limits of science it originated its perspective of writing within the social perimeter its scientific path and Margherita Hack lived as inseparable the two floors, especially for the promotion and defence of fundamental rights. He had also agreed several times to stand for election in political, European, regional and local elections, but always giving up his seat. In recent months his social commitment had returned to focus on the reasons for Italian research, in particular young researchers, with an appeal for greater stability and enhancement of their work, rethinking in particular the choice to abolish contracts indefinitely for those who choose to dedicate their existence to scientific research. His courage and determination to support young people, to open up to them every possibility of growth and advancement based on merit, most of the time precisely to them excluded, opened his school well beyond the university classrooms. His school became a real community of knowledge. I am sure to interpret the emotional feeling of the whole Senate in expressing the condolences and participation of our Assembly in the pain of Margherita Hack's family, and in particular her husband Aldo De Rosa, her life companion for almost seventy years, as well as colleagues and students in the Italian and international scientific community. I therefore call on my fellow Members to observe a minute of silence and recollection in memory of this great figure of woman and scientist. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u8	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, until the last day of her life, Margherita Hack was able to truly represent how much better there is in this country's culture and civil commitment. A very clear scientist to whom the Trieste Astronomical Observatory, of which it was director for more than twenty years, owes its deserved international fame, never considered science as something different and separate from social commitment and ethical rigour, and in recognizing and affirming its limit it emphasized even more how necessary an ethical foundation and rigor in the scientific approach were. On the contrary, precisely because she was a scientist, she could always consider reality in its completeness. He fought in the same way in defense of social justice and the environment. She knew - and this, especially in recent years, was an important commitment to her - that the survival of the human species on the planet was at risk because of pollution and that in order to avoid this danger it was necessary to make it better for its inhabitants. Even when, as in the case of nuclear research, his point of view differed from ours his objective always remained to ensure and safeguard the environment to the maximum. The inhabitants, the masters of the planet for her were not only the beings belonging to the human species, but also the animals to which she recognized equal rights. We had it side by side in so many battles to defend animals because for her everything that lived had to be defended. The brotherhood - he said - must be extended to all the living. I would like to remind you today in this House where we will soon be discussing animal rights when examining the draft Community law. There was almost no difference between his great loves, astrophysics and his cats, because in both cases it was about taking sides in favor of life, culture, against the forces and logics that threaten both. World science writes the name of the Hack alongside that of the great researchers who have held the Italian scientific prestige high among the States. It leaves a huge void in Italian culture because it has been a reference point for many of us. It will be - I hope - also for our children and for future generations. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u11	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Margherita Hack was one of the brightest minds in world astrophysics science. The first woman to run an astronomical observatory in Italy, has made a considerable contribution to research into the study and classification of many categories of stars. She was born into a family in which her father, of Protestant religion, and her mother, of Catholic religion, both critical and dissatisfied with their religious affiliation, joined the doctrines that advocate the universal brotherhood of humanity, encourage comparative study of religions, philosophies and sciences, and investigate the inexplicable laws of nature. Maybe that's why Hack was attracted to the study of nature and the laws that govern it. The parents, who were also convinced vegetarians, passed on this other important philosophy of life. He attends the classical high school, practice basketball and athletic getting discreet results at the national level in the jump at the top. In 1945, after the war, Margherita Hack graduated in physics in Florence with an astrophysics thesis. In 1954 he obtained free teaching and began his activity as a scientific publisher, collaborating with important magazines. It is precisely in this activity that Hack excels, managing to make everyone understand, in a simple way, the laws that govern the universe, using examples of immediate understanding. In fact, it has alternated the writing of university scientific texts with the writing of popular texts. The "Stellar spectroscopy" treaty, written in Berkeley in 1959, is still considered a fundamental text in the field. He collaborates with prestigious foreign universities and in 1964 became an ordinary professor, obtaining the chair of astronomy at the Institute of Theoretical Physics of the University of Trieste. As an ordinary professor, he takes over the management of the Astronomical Observatory. Its management will last for more than twenty years, until 1987, and will give new life to an institution that in Italy was last for both the number of employees and researchers and for the quality of scientific instrumentation, coming to give it resonance also in the international field. Margherita Hack was a member of the Accademia dei Lincei, the International Union of Astronomers and the Royal Astronomical Society. In 1992 he finished his career as a university professor, continuing, however, his research activity, dedicating himself to meetings and conferences in order to spread knowledge of astronomy and a scientific and rational mindset. Politically very committed, she was enrolled in the Association Luca Coscioni for the freedom of scientific research and in the Transnational Radical Party, although every time she had chosen to engage in first person she had always applied for left-wing parties. She was atheist convinced, she did not believe in any religion or form of supernaturalism. He also believed that ethics was not derived from religion, but from principles of conscience that allow anyone to have a secular vision of life. Although we do not share some of his utterances, often pungent towards his opponents, we respect the strength of mind and the conviction with which he has always tried to make his thought understand. The North League is associated in the expression of sentiments of deep condolence to the family of the scientist, of which, in addition to appreciating the undoubted excellence in the activity of scientific dissemination, it fully shares its commitment to the defence of the languages of the peoples, contrary as it was to the exclusive and compulsory use of the English language for the teaching of scientific subjects in Italian universities. "According to me," he said, "it is not necessary to abandon one's own language, certain concepts can be expressed only when a language is very well known as its own." We are deeply convinced of this. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u14	GIANNI (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for a few days, Margherita Hack had been 91 years old when, as you mentioned, she died in her adoption Trieste, after having directed the Astronomical Observatory for more than thirty years. 91 years are the same that my mother would have done if she were still alive and the same that have passed since the beginning of the celebrations in Italy of the Feast of the woman. Almost a century, therefore, dramatically crossed by the tragedy of war, but also by the fastest and most shocking technological and scientific revolutions that humanity had ever known, as Hack loved to remember in the few, very few reflections dedicated to the past (Brusio). President, perhaps we should have some silence, otherwise this is not a memorial. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, colleagues, we're commemorating a missing person. GIANNI (SPI). That generation of women - perhaps it is also worth remembering today - had gone through at least three great revolutions in the twentieth century, as daughters, as wives and mothers: as daughters, at the pace of the new American dances of the post-war period and for very few, very few, with the admission allowed in university faculties, in the professions and in the world of research; as wives, in the daily commitment as an active and incessant contribution to the reconstruction of the country and its incredible recovery outside and inside the home; as mothers, finally, of us sons and daughters of the sixties, educated to become women in a more free and advanced society. But Hack was a very special woman. A point of diamond, I would say, of that generation; anomalous and extravagant by nature and culture; astronomer almost by chance, but scientist by dedication to that one religion which she recognized as valid and authority: reason, science and the constant need for knowledge. On this basis the star lady fought a daily, intellectual and political battle against her true antagonists: superstition and ignorance first of all, but also resignation to a cultural decline apparently without remedies that seemed unbearable. His spiritual testament, which is deduced from the many writings, even only from the titles of this exterminated bibliography, is heterogeneous but nevertheless traced by a coherent thought. I summarize it with his words: I've been through a century with the desire to win. And this energy Margherita Hack has brought it to all fields of existence: from academic career to political and cultural debate, also to daily life, to private life. I remember that when she was taken off her license for reaching age limits, with uncontrollable Tuscany she protested saying that she had a Panda, since 1952 she was driving everywhere, had never had serious accidents and therefore the behavior of the doctor was absolutely unconstitutional. For Margherita Hack the dominant theme was the idea that a more educated society would be even braver, even more visionary and therefore a better society. And with this lucidity he did not want to see his country collapse, nor spared the powerful who guide him and who guided him the stimulus and provocation. To the children, direct and no longer direct students, he recently addressed a clear and simple suggestion that I would like to be able to give to our students in universities: choose the profession that interests you most; when you have to decide what to study, do not just think about what will allow you to find a job, but what you really like. And to the girls, in particular, I say that I have more self-confidence, demand that their rights be respected and, as a former sportsman, I add face life as a race, with the desire to win. Margherita was interested in the future to the last. In his expectation, we could say, serenely secular of death he said (but he could have said it Parmenide): if there is death there are not us, so why worry about it? And the future of our country was concerned in detail, because it is useless to talk about innovation and research if it is always cut and above all there, because it is even hypocritical to continue to preach the religion of science and culture without resulting in a precise and unshakable commitment to put at the center of the political agendas of the advanced countries this theme. To us today, dear colleagues, sons and daughters of silently revolutionary mothers, certainly quieter than Margherita Hack, but of the same generation, remains above all this urgent and complex task in Italian culture and society, recalling this extraordinary, exceptional figure. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, PdL, M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u17	BOCCHINO (M5S). Mr President, the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement supports the unanimous condolence expressed for the disappearance of Professor Margherita Hack, the most famous face of Italian astrophysics. We want to remind you first of all of your brilliant professional career. She has been the author of over 200 publications, as the first author, and in the most prestigious specialized magazines. We emphasize, among the many contributions, those on the cepheid variables, one of the first steps of the cosmic distance measurement scale, and those on the binary stars variable cataclysmic, fascinating systems of double stars in which one star sucks the material of the other causing enormous thermonuclear explosions. The President has already mentioned his commitment to the Observatory in Trieste, to relaunch this structure that today belongs to the National Institute of Astrophysics. We also want to highlight his human qualities and great communicator of our times. Margherita Hack has been involved throughout her life in activities of scientific dissemination to bring the world of astronomical research closer to the general public. We remember the founding of the magazine "L'Astronomia" and the many books he wrote precisely to bring the public closer to the subject. With the disappearance of Margherita Hack comes out of the scene one of the most authoritative voices in support of scientific research, a voice that has always defended research, university and education from the way they have been treated in recent years. It was - let us not forget - a secular voice, which has always defended public school and the need to respect the constitutional dictation about financing private schools. It was a voice for the respect of the law of animals, as has been recalled. It was also a voice with an unmistakable Florentine accent, which I am sure now we all remember and almost hear in our ears, with which he communicated sympathy, but also firmness and determination. Untiring and indomitable, Margherita Hack, until the last days of her life, even when her health conditions were no longer optimal. The colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, of which I personally honour to be a part, and the general public always remind you to intervene, even if not of presence, at conferences, debates and interviews. The 5 Star Movement, although in the diversity of some views, but in full respect of its opinions, wants to gather its message by also being the bearer of a new idea of society, in which education and research are fly of individual and collective growth. The funds allocated to them must not be classified as mere expenditure, ladies and gentlemen, but as real investment in human capital. Thank you, Margherita, now you're a star in that firmament that you loved and spread. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u20	BONFRISCO (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Margherita Hack has disappeared and the icon of free thought and anti-conformism disappears, as Umberto Veronesi described it very well. But the lady of the stars was also another: beyond the scientific commitment that made her famous throughout the world, beyond the political commitment in the most secular and radical left, we remember her for another life started at ninety years, what she tells between confessions, smiles, budgets and projects, shared reflections with Fr Pierluigi Di Piazza, street priest, in that wonderful confrontation between the devil and holy water started twenty years earlier and told in the book "I believe": an example of how ethics, commitment, science and knowledge open to neighbour and society are a real starting point towards new horizons, which make respect and listening their belief, in the sign of civil progress, in respect for all living beings, acceptance, coherence and constant commitment. Born in that Mitteleuropa of the small country but a town of the world, we remember her for the very effective interviews from her home, the one animated by her smile, where she breathed air of freedom, science and knowledge, surrounded by books (a library of 24,000 volumes), her husband, the eight cats and a dog. We want to remember her this way today, today that Marghe has climbed among her stars, those that she has often told us and taught us to understand and perhaps love like her. [[Applause from the PdL, PD, M5S and SCpI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u23	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr President, it has been reported by many Members and newspapers around the world have remembered it as the lady of the stars. It was the icon and reference of the world's astrophysics. As President Napolitano said, she was a major figure in the world of scientific culture. With his studies and his commitment as a teacher he has constantly served and honored Italy also in the international field, but at the same time he has represented a strong example of civil passion, leaving a mark on public debate and dialogue with all citizens. I don't want to retrace the long academic and scientific career; I want to remember it personally. Last year, for the inauguration of the National School and University Festival organized by the Democratic Party in Urbino, he gave us a video interview in connection via Skype and, telling us about his first ninety years (so he told them in the book "Nine Lives Like Cats"), told us how fundamental his parents, a Protestant father and a Catholic mother, had been in his life and in his education, both unsatisfied with his religion (so he told us with his words), that they had educated him to theosophy. As a girl she had also been a valuable athlete and proudly remembered that she had won two high jumping and long jumping college championships, but above all she had never abandoned her passion for cycling. At the enactment of racial laws she immediately became anti-fascist and regarded racism as one of the most serious horrors of humanity. From an atheist, he considered all brothers of the same primordial soup that comes from the Big Bang, and for this reason his belief was first and foremost a deep respect for all human beings and for animals. It was in fact also, as you recalled, vegetarian and convinced animalist, but above all in life he guided her - he told us that evening - the ethical belief that recites "never do to others what you would not want to be done to you." As a woman and passionate scholar she invited young people to follow their inclinations, to do what they like, but with seriousness and commitment. However, he considered it silly - he told us - to invite young people to change jobs often because, instead, she was convinced that in the work they serve specialization and deepening. She was deeply regretted for the many intelligences and the many young talents forced to leave our country, she considered it masochistic waste of resources. We train them well - he told us - in our excellent universities but then, not investing in research, we let the best researchers be valued by other countries, which thus benefit from our investments. He always reminded us that without research there is no innovation, and therefore industry also dies. For this reason he believed that after the crisis Italy, in order to start again, had to return to investing in school, university and research. He reminded us that evening how Italy was the first country to invent an electronic computer, the ELEA, and the first personal computer, with Olivetti. And then, precisely, that great company, that great heritage was lost with little foresight for having stopped investing in research and innovation. It was above all, as you mentioned, Mr President, an extraordinary scientific popularizer. He told us that he considered scientific disclosure a moral duty for a scientist, who serves even more for those who do it than for those who receive it, because, in order to explain science in simple words, one must first understand very well the concepts that are then intended to spread. "I am not afraid of death: when I am there is no death, and when there is death I will not be there. So he had said in an interview given on the occasion of the publication of the book "I Credo." Dialogue between an atheist and a priest, written together with Fr Pierluigi Di Piazza: a real spiritual will. To her husband Aldo, to whom she has been linked for seventy years, to the whole scientific community and to her students go the most sincere and affectionate condolences of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u24	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] In today's afternoon session, the Assembly recalled the 4th anniversary of the railway accident at Viareggio station on 29 June 2009, in which 33 people lost their lives. The Presidency supports the words of condolence and commemoration of the victims of the tragic event and invites the Assembly to a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u25	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the communication received from the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u26	The Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, in its session of 2 July 2013, verified that the following elections were not contestable and, competing in the elected qualities required by the law, declared them valid: for the Basilicata Region: Giovanni Barozzino, Filippo Bubbico, Salvatore Tito Di Maggio, Emma Fattorini, Salvatore Margiotta, Vito Rosario Petrocelli and Guido Walter Cesare Viceconte; for the Calabria Region: Pietro Aiello, Giovanni Emanuele Bilardi, Antonio Stefano Caridi, Vincenzo Mario Domenico D'Ascola, Antonio Gentile, Doris Lo Moro, Domenico Minniti, Francesco Molinari, Nicola Morra and Domenico Scilipoti; for the Liguria Region: Donatella Albano, Massimo Caleo, Cristina De Pietro, Paolo Guerrieri Paleotti, Augusto Minzolini, Roberta Pinotti, Mauri Giuseppe Rossi and Vito Vatto Vattunella; for the Regione, for the Regione Marchegio Marchegio, Massimo Albano, Massimo, Massimo Caleo, Massimo Caleo, Massimo Caleo Caleo Caleo Caleo Caleo Caleo Caleo Caleo Caleo Caleo, Cristio, Cristina Camati, Reimini, Reimenti, Reimini, Reimio Camio Camenti, Reimenti, Reimenti, Reimenti, Reimenti, Reimenti, Reimari Alberto Airola, Daniele Gaetano Borioli, Enrico Buemi, Vannino Chiti, Michelino Davico, Nerina Dirindin, Stefano Esposito, Nicoletta Favero, Elena Ferrara, Elena Fissore, Federico Fornaro, Stefano Lepri, Lucio Malan, Patrizia Manassero, Mauro Maria Marino, Carlo Martelli, Andrea Olivero, Manuela Repetti, Maria Rizzotti, Marco Scibona, Gianluca Susta and Magda Angela Zanoni; for the Sardinia Region: Ignazio Angioni, Roberto Cotti, Giuseppe Luigi Salvatore Cucca, Emilio Floris, Bachisio Silvio Lai, Luigi Manconi, Manuela Serra and Luciano Uras; for the Tuscany Region: Alessandra Bencini, Laura Bottici, Laura Cantini, Rosa Maria Di Giorgi, Valeria Fedeli, Marco Filippi, Maria Grazia Gatti, Stefania Giannini, Manuela Granaiola, Andrea Marcucci, Claudio Martini, Altero Matteoli, Donatella Mattesini, Riccardo Mazzoni, Sara Paglini, Alessia Petraglia, Maurizio Romani and Denis Verdini; for the Trentino-Alto Adige Region: Johann Karl Berger, Sergio Divina, Vittorio Fravezzi, Francesco Palermo, Franco Panizza, Giorgio Tonini and Karl Zeller; for the Umbria Region: Valeria Cardinali, Nadia Ginetti, Miguel Gotor, Linda Lanzillotta, Stefano Lucidi, Gianluca Rossi and Luciano Rossi; for the Valle d'Aosta Region: Albert Lanièce.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u27	I acknowledge this communication and declare these elections validated.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u28	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 783.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, my speech is linked to the need to support companies in every way possible, and in particular the household appliance industry, which are responding to the rapid decline in turnover with redundancies and relocations. The explanatory report to the measure states, among other things, that the provision aims to promote economic recovery and employment supply in the wood sector, which is currently in severe crisis; however, the industrial sector of made in Italy appliances, the second manufacturing sector in Italy after that of the car, which employs more than 130,000 workers, has long been struggling with a difficult situation. In particular, from 2002 to 2012 there was a half-life of production volumes, from 30 million pieces in 2002 to 14 million in 2012. Over the last three years, from 2010 to 2012, businesses in commerce have seen their turnover linked to the sale of household appliances decreased. According to the latest AIRES surveys, moreover, from 2000 to 2012 there was a drop in yields of more than 10 percent and, in the first quarter of 2013, the turnover fell by more than 15 percent. Added to this is the estimate of possible dismissals announced also by large companies, such as the Electrolux, which includes as many as 1,129 redundancies in various Italian plants, as well as the well-known story Indesit, whose company leaders announced a restructuring plan that will affect three Italian sites (that of Fabriano, in the province of Ancona, that of Communanza, in the province of Ascoli Piceno, and that of Caserta), completely redesigning their strategic mission with the concentration in our country of only top-of-range productions and the displacement of Italian productions in the Indesit sites in Poland and Turkey. This productive reorganization will be accompanied by a rationalization of the human resources that, according to announced by the company leaders, will involve a total of 1,425 workers. In addition to the reduced spending capacity of citizens and the risk of no longer being able to deduct the costs incurred in purchasing household appliances, this scenario is more than worrying for the current and future economy. It is precisely in this regard that I presented the agenda G16.103, in which the combination of the various proposals made to the Government in order to support the Italian appliance market should have a significant positive impact on the whole supply chain. With regard to the aforementioned agenda, I would like to ask whether it is possible to supplement it with two other points of commitment by the Government: the provision of incentives for household appliances only at least A+ products in Italy, and the extension of what is expected for purchases also to secondary housing, studies, offices and other. I would therefore ask whether a rewording of the agenda is possible. I repeat the importance of all these actions in order not to see so many Italian companies disappear, even large and long-standing, strongly affected by the crisis with repercussions and damage even in the longer term perhaps even greater. I remember that behind a company there are the dramas of many families, whole families and people who, losing their jobs, suffer not only economic damage, but motivation, self-esteem and - ugly to say - dignity. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u30	Senator Fravezzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u31	Mr President, Madam Representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we can only welcome the approval of the decree-law for our examination, which transposes, through the amendments and additions to the provisions contained in Decree-Law No 192 of 19 August 2005, the European Directive No 31 of 2010 on energy performance in buildings, while extending and enhancing tax incentives of great importance for the improvement of energy efficiency in buildings. This measure will put an end to the infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission on 24 September 2006, precisely because of the failure to transpose that directive, and will also definitively remedy another infringement procedure opened by the Commission on 18 October 2006, due to the partial and non-compliant transposition of Directive 91 of 2002. The aim of the 2010 Community Directive is consistent with the objective of achieving a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020, within a common framework of measures to promote energy efficiency in the European Union. The Directive, taking into account local and external climatic conditions, promotes the improvement of the energy performance of buildings within the Union, as well as the requirements for indoor climate and cost-effectiveness. The first part of the measure is intended to amend Legislative Decree No. 192, 19 August 2005, in order to adapt it to the provisions of the 2010 Directive: the provisions contained therein move in the right direction that is to give greater uniformity to the Italian legislation on energy efficiency in buildings. The current state regulatory intervention changes the methodology of energy qualification, replacing the energy certification that of energy performance, which is linked to a calculation methodology that will have to result from a series of implementing acts, provided in particular by Articles 4 and 6 of the decree-law to our examination. In this connection, I would like to call on all colleagues and colleagues to accept the amendment proposed by us, which provides for a specific safeguard clause allowing the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano and the Special Statute Regions to resolve the application problems during the transition from ACE to EPA, since they have already had partial transposition of the previous directive. Some concerns remain about the extent of the penalties, rather high, provided for by the owner or the owner of the property that does not provide for the control and maintenance of the air conditioning systems; and those charged to the person responsible for the commercial announcement of the offer for sale or rental of the property that violates the obligation to bring back the energy parameters in the same: sanctions that in our opinion should be reduced. The second part of the measure contains several measures, much expected, that will have a positive impact on investments and consumption in the real estate sector; such as the so-called ecobonus, that is, the tax relief of 65%, foreseen for the documented expenses related to interventions of energy redevelopment of the buildings, extended from the entry into force of the decree to 31 December 2013 and, for the participations relative to the common parts of the condominium buildings, until 30 June 2014; and the extension from 30 June to 31 December 2013 of the greater deduction IRPEF, from 36 percent to 50 percent, and the limit of the total amount deductible, from 48,000 to 96,000 euros, in relation to the expenses of building renovation. These facilities, which we hope will soon be able to enter the regime, have been very successful in the past years and have helped many families and companies to face otherwise unsustainable expenses in a period of great crisis such as what we are going through. The process of the measure, assigned to the Commissions meeting 6a and 10a, was however complex. There have been many proposals for amendments to the text, some of which are acceptable, because they aim to dissolve some of the points highlighted in the measure, but which could not be accepted for obvious reasons of financial coverage. I am referring in particular to those amendments which proposed to include in the ecobonus some installations considered among those aimed at ensuring high energy savings, such as high efficiency heat pumps or low enthalpy geothermal plants. In this respect, we hope that the Government will nevertheless bear in mind what has emerged in the debate in the Committees on the merits in order to bring these facilities back into the system as soon as possible. We would like to express our appreciation for the positive convergence of all the members of the Committees meeting on the proposals for amendments aimed at extending to Class A+ appliances the tax deductions envisaged for the purchase of real estate. This facility will certainly give a little 'breath to a market strongly in crisis, encouraging the purchase of key appliances. I would also like, personally, to thank the Government for having transposed by Article 17 of the measure to our examination what was requested with the parliamentary question 3-00045 concerning the qualification of plant installers powered by renewable sources. The provision allows operators in the sector who have worked for at least three years in qualifying as a specialized worker to continue, even after 1 August 2013, their activity as installers of solar or photovoltaic panels, biomass, solar thermal, heat pumps and geothermal, thus allowing about 80,000 Italian companies currently in activity to continue to operate in one of the few market sectors that still shows potential growth. In conclusion, our overall assessment of the measure is positive, although some provisions concerning the coverage of the burdens provided by the decree-law leave us puzzled, as they may have a negative impact on the publishing sector and more generally on culture. The emphasis here is on changing the VAT rules on the supply of publishing products, which from 1 January 2014 provides for an increase in the rate from 4% to 21%. This increase is not only affected by the gadgets attached to the publications, but also by the goods functionally related to books and periodicals, i.e. those representing their illustrative or didactic completion. The hope is therefore that, in the course of further work, the Government may, if necessary, revise this measure. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u32	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, we are about to approve the bill of conversion of a very important decree, which the Government has rightly and promptly brought to Parliament's attention. In the respective Commissions we have done a good job, clarification and improvement: I would therefore like to thank the Undersecretary Vicars, who has been with us. We could and would have done more within the Commission, and we would have liked and could have contributed to a further improvement, as other Members have already pointed out. However, the decree as it is has unquestionable merits, which must be emphasized. I also want to thank the rapporteurs, Senators Sciascia and Tomaselli, and the Chairmen of the competent Commissions, the Senators Marino and Cucchetti. There are some strengths that need to be highlighted. Firstly, a European directive of high ethical value, which pursues forward-looking social and economic objectives, was finally fulfilled. The sooner it was transposed, the better it would have been, and finally it has been. The second strong point is that the instruments adopted, as some colleagues have pointed out, help to combat a terrible crisis, which is attacking our economy. These measures will certainly help businesses, producers and craftsmen. The third point of force is sometimes underestimated: with the measure are induced the Italians, our families, our country, to invest in the improvement of the property considered more precious, that is their home, on which the Italian family has always invested, considering it a primary asset. Well, with this decree we say to Italian families: after buying the house, do not abandon it, improve it, increase the quality potential of your home. The fourth strong point is the fact that tax evasion is also fought with the measure, because yes, dear citizen, dear family, we give you the tax bonus, but you make it clear, put in transparency the works you will do. These are indisputable strengths, alongside which, unfortunately, we have had to note some weaknesses, which have been highlighted. The last speaker pointed out that the resources come from publishing and culture, while another weakness concerns seismic adjustments and improvements. I consider that I did not support the amendments that we had tabled to this effect as a short pause for reflection, while waiting for serious attention to be paid to the problem of seismic adjustments, which are no less important than energy efficiency. Unfortunately, in such situations we still count the dead but when there is an earthquake death is not a direct consequence of the earthquake. The earthquake does not kill: unfortunately the houses are killed, which collapse on the head and on the bodies of those who lose their lives in those damned situations. The amendments we have proposed were therefore intended to equate the tax incentive with the measures adopted for energy efficiency. It was not possible, in view of the provisions of Article 81 of the Constitution and, therefore, of the increase in expenditure, but the substantive problem remains. We are a country with a very high seismic risk that must address this issue; it cannot postpone it every time and always. In these days in Lunigiana there are populations afflicted by fear. If we were sure that schools, homes, offices met security requirements there would be no need to evacuate, organize tentopolies, put entire populations and their economy into fibrillation. Therefore, with the Group of the Democratic Party and other groups who also wanted to support the need to address this issue, I would like to reiterate the need to provide other incentives and systems for helping those families and local authorities who wish to secure their assets from the point of view of seismic risk. It is useless to cry crocodile tears every time; it is useless to entertain in television broadcasts, in comments or in debates in which we point out that construction and restructuring work costs much more than prevention. For Emilia-Romagna many resources will be needed, they will serve many for Abruzzo, they have served many for Belice, Irpinia and Friuli. How much would it cost to secure our country? Certainly a lot, but if you never start we will never have houses, schools, churches and cultural heritage in safety. The very positive aspects of this decree must therefore be further strengthened. We do not know whether the House - it is a wish - can take action again, but we leave it as a reflection of this House and the Government, which accompanied this measure. I am talking about a heritage of reflection and a deep need to give a response not to be the country of crocodile tears, but the country that secures its own heritage and that allows local authorities, also through interventions on the Stability Pact, to be able to put in efficiency, as well as energy, also anti-seismic, their own building heritage. I believe that the decree has its own strength: it allows us to invest in the economy linked to energy efficiency and the so-called green economy; in short, it allows us to modernise our country by giving work, and I believe that this is a priority objective of the Government and the majority: it certainly is of the Democratic Party. We can open up to other reflections. All the categories that participated in the hearings stressed how old our urban and building heritage is. Most homes date back to before 1971, i.e. before the standards and legislation that provides for the most appropriate safety standards. This means that we have a territory, houses and buildings that are still insecure. We also intervene with the tax lever, given that other systems have difficulties in being prepared because of the serious crisis in the economy, but let us do so. I take it as a postponement, but I ask for a commitment from the Government on this need of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u35	Mr President, I would like to refer to what Mr Fravezzi said and add some more political considerations. I also welcome this measure, but let me say - and I am addressing the representative of the Government in particular - that I want to consider this measure only as a first step. Italy, in fact, is very late, a delay not only towards the European Commission, but a delay, first of all, of a cultural nature. In fact, introducing energy efficiency and reasoning on natural sources and all the other novelties contained in this decree-law means rethinking a sector, such as the building sector, of primary importance, because it has allowed to produce wealth and well-being, driving many other sectors and generating unprecedented development. And so this measure today allows us to at least partially heal this cultural delay: that is, to think that development can only be considered such when it is sustainable for the environment, only when it does not generate waste, only when it takes into account the impact it has on the territory and only when it puts people in a position to live well. It follows that addressing the issue of energy efficiency means addressing that of the model of development and growth that we have in mind for this country. With the bill on our examination - I repeat - we are taking a first important step today, but I hope that the Government will present as soon as possible a real plan for energy saving, on the one hand, and for the conversion or in any case the building efficiency of our heritage, on the other. I am also convinced that such an issue had to be much stronger and more courageous with the capacity to produce economic recovery. I am sure that this decree-law will allow the relaunch of a key sector for our economy such as the building economy, but if the mission of this Government and the priority of the country is today the economic recovery, the hope is that in the future such strategic bills will be written in order to maximize the effectiveness, to bring about real virtuosity able to free up our economy on every level and thus allow recovery. In the Commission I have tabled a number of amendments, which I have also proposed in this House, with the idea that they should go in the direction described, namely to maximise the effectiveness of the measure on the economic recovery front. They were not accepted by the Government because they involve additional costs or because, taking care of VAT and withholding taxes, they were considered not related to the subject matter covered by the measure. I have tabled some of them in the form of agendas, because I believe in the importance of the measures they contain. I believe in the increase of the tax deduction on certain types of buildings, both in order to promote the revival of buildings and to bring out the submerged, as well as in the reduction of the VAT rate on benefits to disadvantaged groups, as well as in some rules that today should avoid litigation with the Agency of revenues: this would avoid the discontent that often explodes even violently. These are all measures that would have allowed the market to be stimulated even more strongly, but at this point it can only be hoped that there will still be the possibility, in other forms and in other places, of including these measures. A final point I would like to make on an article in this decree-law, namely Article 17, about which Mr Fravezzi has already talked a great deal, which is going to heal a truly paradoxical situation. This article gives me the opportunity to talk about how unfortunately in Italy very often slices of protagonists are removed from the work they normally carry out. Well, I think that today we really need to work in terms of removing all the obstacles that make life difficult for the many people who work every day, who have energy and desire to do and who can be the real protagonists in order to get Italy out of the pitfalls of the crisis. Too many times our country does everything to put laces and laces and to block the free initiative. In this case these are really small issues, because our system is sown not by big obstacles, but by so many tiny impediments that, for this reason, are more difficult to remove and, above all, are even more invasive, more risky. Then, welcoming the measure as a whole, the hope is that in the future we can have even more courage and ability both to remove the obstacles and to give financial support, perhaps in the form of reliefs of the tax burden, for those areas that can really allow the relaunch of the country. [[Applause from the GroupsFor the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u36	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u37	Mr President, I hope that during my speech the 1st Commission is not voting on my amendments, because I would be deprived of the right to vote. Having said that, the draft law under discussion today is very important because it transposes Directive 2010/31/EU aimed at promoting the energy performance of buildings, their parts and real estate units. Above all, with this act we can finally hope to make Italy overcome the infringement procedure launched by the European Commission against our country precisely because of the failure to transpose the relevant directives. I mention this aspect in order to highlight the fact that our country must recover a gap not indifferent precisely on the ground of the energy efficiency of the buildings, which should quickly lead it - as provided for in the same directive - to define a chronoprogram so that we finally arrive both for public buildings, by 2018, and for all private buildings to a zero energy consumption. This is the road that the European Union has indicated to us. Once again I take this opportunity, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to reiterate what we have always asked for during the two debates held here in the Senate with a view to the Council of Europe: we must ensure that all the interventions aimed at achieving these objectives (now, through the draft law in title and, shortly, through the law of European delegation that we are going to examine) are removed from the Stability Pact. I believe that this is another of the absolutely fundamental issues. I therefore hope that at last one day, at least at the forthcoming debate on the European Council, we will all be able to vote on this measure on the Stability Pact and therefore perhaps we can have the hope of having a stronger voice within the European Union. One of the important issues I want to focus on is the extension of tax deductions, the energy efficiency that has been increased to 65% and the deductions to 50% for building renovations. It is precisely in the sense advocated by the directive that we should aim to stabilise these measures, which are not only forms of deduction, but also instruments that will enable us to achieve the maximum of the objectives with regard to energy regeneration and efficiency. Therefore, we are not fully satisfied that the extension on efficiency was only scheduled until December 2013 (the one-year extension, i.e. until December 2014, was granted only for the more complex works of the condominiums). In my view, however, it would be essential to stabilize these forms of intervention. I would like to mention the very detailed report on these measures presented by ENEA, like every year, which shows that this measure has benefited both from the environmental (as regards CO2 savings emitted into the atmosphere) and from the economic point of view. In fact, in 2011 we had 3.3 billion euros of total investments only for efficiency and were deducted 1,820 billion euros. In addition, values almost doubled in 2002. In view of the coverage issues raised by the 5th Commission on many amendments, I would like to point out that it is never stated how much the benefit to the State is palpable, remarkable. This leads, in fact, to an increase in VAT not indifferent, an increase that I do not say totally repays the deductions (in fact, over 10 years) but covers to a large extent the exits. This leads me to say that, all the more so, we should work towards an extension of all measures for at least one year and, in any case, towards stabilisation. These are among the few anticyclical measures that have been taken in our country in these years of deep crisis. Of course, the measures on restructuring and energy efficiency alone cannot be enough, but they have had positive effects, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and indicate a road, which is the correct road, which clearly tells us to invest in these sectors, in the energy redevelopment of buildings, in the redevelopment and renovation of buildings. Mrs Pezzopane put the question of adaptation and restructuring to the attention of her colleagues in order to respond to the anti-seismic legislation that represents a real, high priority in this country. In setting these objectives, in considering them as one of the key issues on which to redirect economic development, there is one way to breathe breath into the economy. Among other things, I repeat that these measures have favoured craft enterprises, small enterprises, in a situation of stagnation and depression as deep as that which our country is going through, making it clear how much intervention in these sectors could be a valid aid for the economy itself. The data contained in the ENEA report, which I mentioned earlier, from whatever point of view we read them (from the point of view of VAT entry for the State, from the point of view of CO2 not emitted into the atmosphere, of the total energy savings deriving from the primary energy obtained) are all positive. The amendments tabled by our Group are aimed at improving the decree-law in the sense of stabilisation and extension, including, for example, all the rules relating to water saving (including the one related to appliances for re-naturalisation) within the bonus of EUR 10,000 recognised for furniture, also extended to household appliances. The other very important issue we are putting to the attention of this House is not to exclude heat pumps from deductions. The issue has been the subject of many discussions about high-efficiency and low-enthalpy geothermal installations. I would like to point out that it is not true that they have other facilities and that they could therefore be included in this. Finally, we also draw everyone's attention to the possibility of including, among the systems that can be the subject of incentives, the storage systems connected to renewable sources, since they represent the future for renewable energy and allow the construction of a branched network that allows each building to be autonomous not only from the point of view of efficiency but also of energy production itself. I hope that in addition to the opinions expressed by the 5th Commission, the House will be able to consider these amendments in order to improve this measure considerably. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u38	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u39	Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, within the various provisions contained in the measure we are debating today in this House, the most substantial part is undoubtedly that of the interventions aimed at improving and supporting the redevelopment and energy efficiency of the Italian real estate. Of course, there is no doubt that a substantial part of this real estate in Italy is managed by public bodies, which not only hold a part of it, i.e. the public assets, but which, in fact, manage this property in various ways. The more than 8,000 Italian municipalities, in this sense, play a predominant role: doesn't the urban planning of the cities lie at the head of them? And is it not always the municipalities that represent more than others the public bodies, where the greater has always been the investment of resources to realize works and public goods? However, everyone knows that in recent years local authorities, and the municipalities in particular, are experiencing a serious economic and financial crisis. Draconian economic movements have reduced their economic availability, while measures of a clear centralist nature have deeply limited their financial autonomy, in fact making it impossible even the ordinary provision of minimum services for citizens. This is not enough, for a long time the municipalities themselves are subject to a constraint that prevents them, even the most virtuous and efficient ones (we do not underestimate this very important step), to be able to use their own resources, also and above all for new investments. The Stability Pact, ladies and gentlemen (an amendment had been tabled in the Commission on the subject, but, having been rejected, we will present a special agenda), represents, for the mayors, a tight trap, where only a few, and always less, manage to pass, leaving on the field long delays in payments to companies: the same believing companies that, unable to wait so long, too many times are forced to close; with the consequences on GDP and on the level of unemployment that you all know. For this reason, the Group of the North League believes that never as today, and that just within a measure like this, aimed directly at supporting the revival of the energy efficiency of the country and, indirectly, a sector such as real estate and construction, deeply affected by the economic crisis, is necessary, and indeed desirable, that the Executive envisages to exclude from the constraints of the Stability Pact the capital resources used by the Municipalities to realize works and technological systems aimed at increasing energy efficiency in buildings of public ownership. A provision in this direction would have the double advantage of improving the current public real estate assets and, at the same time, of allowing greater investment by local authorities with a view to sustainable economic and urban growth. This is certainly an important signal for a country that has been trying to get out of the quicksand of an increasingly pressing crisis for a long time. In this sense, I conclude by making a small reference to the industrial sector, made by many small and medium-sized enterprises, which, if properly supported, can represent a real opportunity for growth for the country. The decree under consideration provided a partial opening, providing for specific deductions in favour of the construction sector and the furniture industry, the latter composed of many small production companies; however, it would have been more appropriate to direct these interventions in support of the companies of the Made in Italy and of the Italian quality products, today strongly threatened by the aggressive competition of the Asian markets. On this subject too, we had tabled an amendment which has been transformed into an agenda which we shall then table. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u40	She is registered to speak Senator D'Onghia has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u41	Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, this measure aims to requalify the energy efficiency of Italian real estate by extending and strengthening the existing facilitation mechanisms; in particular, it contains necessary and urgent provisions for the transposition of Directive 2010/31/EU, in order to avoid the worsening of the infringement procedure against Italy. An important step, the one taken by this Government to ensure measures of effective growth, in the awareness that, also through the promotion and development of a stable, sustainable and long-term policy on energy efficiency, we can help to give oxygen to a national production system that is in a decisive hurry and meets the negative effects of a situation of strong economic and social crisis, also from the occupational point of view. In fact, it emerges clearly and clearly how effective and incentive measures of this type can give a stimulus to the promotion and competitiveness of Italian industry and energy efficiency for the residential sector. From the numerous hearings held it emerged that this decree-law, intervening in support of a sector particularly important and driving for the economy of this country, that of construction and construction, can be positive for the entire economy of our country. According to recent data provided by Confindustria, the sector, in March 2013, recorded a decrease of 20.9% compared to March 2012 in a situation of growing crisis; 690,000 are the unemployment figures in that sector, which is also suffering in real estate buying and renting. In this particular cyclical phase, the sector also faces strategic delays in promoting an industrial and European vision of a sector that must become competitive. Our industry has, in fact, fallen behind. Therefore, constructive innovation and the improvement of the entire supply chain can certainly play a strategic role in energy efficiency and within the European sustainability objectives. They can therefore represent an opportunity for our industry to grow, even externally, an opportunity to strengthen its competitive position on international markets. Moreover, it is precisely from this sector that there is a high potential for less exploited energy savings. As an example, in Italy a building built according to energy efficiency standards allows a reduction in consumption of up to 70 percent compared to a traditional one. So it would definitely be a great benefit to our energy bill. Renovating and improving the quality of the existing heritage, both public and private, also means not continuing to consume territory that, as we know, has been cemented more than necessary in recent years. In the face of a general demand for their reinforcement, the incentive measures taken are certainly of great hope to move forward, to restructure our beautiful heritage. I am sure that I have added in the measure the sum, even if minimal, of 10,000 euros for furniture and household appliances; another sector that in our country is suffering a lot (only yesterday Natuzzi SpA presented a plan for dismantling 1,726 workers). So, in our opinion, to deduct the costs of improving our assets from our own incomes is a good thing. They are not costs incurred for coffee but for the improvement and efficiency of our properties that will give great aesthetic and economic benefits to the whole community. Families, however, should be able to plan these expenditures with serenity and it would therefore be useful if these measures were not to be spot structural measures. Even for companies to know that the deduction is structural it suggests them in the idea of a continuous and stable renovation of the instrumental properties in order to have, also for the real estate part, that efficiency that usually reserves to the productive plants. Deducting from the income of the sums placed in the economic circuit means not only spending for a State but means taxation (VAT and IRPEF of the companies that benefit from that circuit) and, more than anything else, means employment equal to less Cassa Integrazione and less undeclared work. Yes, because this is the great Italian problem, at least for families: if an expense cannot deduce it, why pay VAT, which is a cost and instead can become an immediate saving? Of course, the non-culture that leads to tax incorrectness cannot be justified by this or that situation, but creating those mechanisms for which billing from annoying tax becomes a tool to improve our lives as citizens and taxpayers, rewarded by the state that we contribute to support, would really be a great result for us all and a cultural change for our country. We remember that in some countries also the spending for the baby sitter is deductible. The Budget Committee and the Government have done their best but have not been able to find the necessary coverage. It is not the fault of those who have to keep their accounts under control, because the numbers are numbers and we all know how much we have had to suffer as a country for the accounts that were not in order, for a public debt raised in an exponential way. But today, in the light of this crisis (it would be useful to remember only the unemployment rate: today's figure is 12.2%) that is reaping businesses and jobs, we must set ourselves new goals, look to the future with different perspectives, as would a family father or an entrepreneur for his own company. There is no more time, we should have the strength, and that is unfortunately something that belongs to us, to this Parliament and to the Government that this Parliament supports, to make those reforms to eliminate the unproductive expenditure of this State and invest in what produces jobs, wealth, but above all well-being and freedom. In order to do this, we all have the obligation to put aside our personal and party needs, to pay attention to those of the citizens, who are not different according to political membership; indeed, perhaps never, as at this moment, from the North to the South, from entrepreneurs to workers, all have a single need: to bring work and production back to the centre of the debate. In this respect, I am thinking of encouraging expenditure, an expenditure which produces jobs in Italy and which can produce retraining. Surely, if we were not bound by European laws, it would be nice to establish that only Italian appliances, only Italian furniture, only Italian companies are involved in this process; we cannot do this, but we can tell our citizens that every time we buy a product made in Italy we give a job and every time we buy a product that has the label of our country we definitely have one less cassintegrato. So a development in this sense is necessary and the fact that you can deduct from your taxes the expenses you face for management and improvement could certainly contribute to growth. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u42	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the measure before us is to promote the redevelopment and energy efficiency of Italian real estate, in accordance with European Union law, acting both through changes and additions to the current regulatory system, and through the extension and strengthening of existing facilitation mechanisms. I say this from the outset: we would have expected that on the most relevant points of the measure (in particular Articles 14 and 16) there would have been a greater chance of comparing the proposals presented both in the Commission and in this House; we would have expected this first of all because we all know that reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the share of energy produced from renewable sources and reducing energy consumption in a nutshell is the content of the so-called climate-energy package 20-20-20 launched by the European Union with the aim of combating climate change and promoting the use of renewable energy sources through binding targets for the Member States. Shortly before the Kyoto Protocol, environmental issues were considered to be an alternative choice, which was quite secondary to the common approach. Today, however, the orientation expressed by the European community sees in the development of green technologies, especially in construction, the main instrument for achieving the ambitious objective proposed by the Climate-Energy Package. Our current building heritage, built largely over the last fifty years, has taken no account of the need to reduce energy consumption. It follows that the recovery of these buildings is indispensable primarily for the environment, but also for the great costs, which are increasingly unsustainable, that families and businesses are bearing. Building smart, sustainable and innovative means building energy-efficient homes. The way forward is to first direct the designers and then also the client towards a concept of a home "green" and "passive house," free from dependence on traditional energy sources. Bio-building and passive houses in particular represent a real challenge for the future of contemporary society, at a time when energy resources are scarce and pollutants, due to climate change emissions, increase. The word "vintage" says it all about the tendency to re-use. It is necessary to look, for this reason, at the use of new construction materials and in case they are not wanted or can not be used, it must be remembered that the recovery of materials in addition to an advantage not indifferent from the economic point of view, offers very original and customizable results: it is eco-sustainable, it does not need time, energy and costs compared to that created ex novo; in short, it can be defined as the beautiful at little price. Recycling is not synonymous with poor, far from it. Today, comfort is perceived only if there is indiscriminate consumption of the energy source. It must not be so, because the waste of resources due to wrong habits costs in terms of both monetary and personal health and of the planet. A reading of the latest report of the National Observatory for Building Regulations shows that 1,003 municipal administrations in Italy have modified their building regulations to introduce energy efficiency and environmental objectives to improve the energy performance of buildings. I believe that now the path we have taken is increasingly directed towards the theme of smart cities, smart cities, and therefore the place of honour is dedicated to the topic of sustainable construction and, regardless of the geographical location of the places, this new design approach will have to change the way of building in both public and private sectors. According to the 5 Star Movement during the examination of the amendments, this Assembly cannot fail to take proper account of the proposals for the promotion of bio-building, which provides adequate responses to private and public needs for the reduction of energy consumption and the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Dalla Zuanna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Langella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u45	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we remember that Directive 2010/31/EU was to be transposed into national law by 9 July 2012. Under this Directive, Member States must establish and apply minimum energy performance requirements for new and existing buildings, ensure certification of the energy performance of buildings and require regular inspection of heating and air conditioning systems. The Directive also obliges Member States to ensure that, by 2021, all new buildings fall within the category of so-called quasi-zero energy buildings. The aim of this measure is, at last, to transpose this Directive. We talk about energy redevelopment of the Italian real estate assets in such a delicate situation for our country. These measures are of great importance, able to act on significant savings, intervening on a sector that has recently experienced severe crises, providing for a regime of significant tax deductions. In the building, in particular, there is the mobile bonus, included among the deductible expenses for the purchase of furniture for the furniture of the renovated property, up to a maximum total expenditure of 10,000 euros. It can, therefore, benefit from the deduction of 50% for the furniture, until 31 December 2013, who has started a restructuring starting from 26 June 2012, that is from the date of entry into force of Decree-Law No 83 of 2012, that has brought from 36 percent to 50 percent the deduction for the renovations, even if, in order to be able to take advantage of this deduction, the furniture purchased must serve specifically to furnish the property object of the renovation. The sector concerned will generate an improvement of entire urban agglomerations in respect of the territory, putting in condition the construction companies to plan with foresight the revival. The property under renovation, also thanks to the acreed work of the Finance and Industry Commissions, will have unmistakable advantages, with great relief of the companies operating in the wood and furniture sector. We are content with relaunching with budgetary constraints and known constraints. Employment and economic development are vital for our country and are transformed into territorial cohesion policy, which draws its foundation and legitimacy from the Italian Constitution and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which require special measures to promote harmonious development and to remove economic and social imbalances. According to the Council of Europe's definition, social cohesion is the capacity of a society to ensure the well-being of all its members, to minimise inequalities and to avoid polarisation. The issue of energy efficiency must play a primary role in relaunching the economy and the whole country. It should be noted that our production system, hit by an unprecedented global crisis, with the measure under consideration underlines the possibility of promoting the revival of the energy and environmental economy. In the light of the amendments tabled, the induced will also have unmistakable advantages, to the relief of families and businesses. We must adapt to European standards and this adaptation must enable us to give vital oxygen to small business. Implementing new urban development policies also means protecting us from environmental risks and this must be the meaning of the energy certificate. New buildings will have to meet the requirements and, before the construction works begin, be subject to an assessment of the feasibility of installing energy supply systems from renewable sources, heat pumps, district heating systems or urban or collective cooling systems and cogeneration systems. Existing buildings, destined to undergo major renovations, will have to benefit from an improvement in their energy performance, so that they can meet the minimum requirements. For example, buildings officially protected (e.g. historic buildings) and those used as places of worship may be excluded from the minimum requirements; residential buildings used for a limited period of the year; independent buildings with a total useful area of less than 50 square metres; rural non residential buildings without air conditioning systems and, in particular, industrial and craft buildings. The aim is to improve and promote the technological activity of the industries, while supporting the families that are preparing to restructure a property, bearing in mind the various annexes, without burdening the public accounts. In addition to helping families, an opportunity is given to the household appliances industry, which is always aimed at renewing products with state-of-the-art energy performance, covering the same energy savings. All this means keeping research alive and reviving a source of work. In summary, I believe that this measure is of vital importance, both for the environment and for various commercial sectors that characterize the economy of our country. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u46	Senator Bertuzzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, I believe that it has emerged clearly from all the speeches that preceded me the goodness of the measure, both from the economic point of view and from the social point of view and, I come to say, also from the psychological point of view. In fact, it contains those characteristics of certainty, concreteness, sustainability and the immediate enforceability that the country needs. The article, in transposing the guidelines contained in Community Directive No 31 of 2010 on the energy performance of buildings, which puts an end to the prolonged infringement procedure against Italy on Directive No 91 of 2002, intervenes directly in the crisis of production and consumption in one of the sectors most affected by the crisis, which in itself brings a high content of drive to innovation, potential demand, the drive of domestic consumption and the development of other sectors: I am talking about the construction sector and all the sectors around it that are involved in the construction of materials, technologies and related skills. This is done in the article through support for the redevelopment of a real estate heritage that is now inadequate, obsolete and too expensive compared to today's availability of technologies that allow safe and measurable savings in the energy consumption of households and businesses; confirmation and strengthening of tax deductions to the interventions improving energy efficiency and restructuring and structural leverage for the development of companies, which in energy saving finds a fundamental element in overcoming the negative gap of competitiveness that Italian companies suffer from. The measures already implemented in previous years, starting from the tax deduction of 36% on the renovations of the buildings, introduced by the Prodi Government, up to the most recent ones, connected to the interventions for the energy improvement of the buildings, have constantly confirmed their effectiveness as a flywheel of economic growth and not only. In the period 2007-2011, deductions on improvements in the energy performance of buildings activated 17 billion investments. I wonder: how many jobs do they match? How much wealth in revaluation of the assets have they produced? How many consumptions have they generated in the families of workers and entrepreneurs? How many craft enterprises, which many of us call the backbone of our production system, have they supported? How much work and how much income in black have they brought out? The data are known, in terms of GDP, employment and consumption. Added to this, on the basis of an ENEA study, which by December 31, 2013, with these incentives that we are going to approve today, will reach the redevelopment of 7% of the country's real estate. This means that there is an expansionary space of investment demand fifteen times larger than what we will meet by the end of 2013. However, we must also be aware that the drive will be more effective if we face the limits that are detectable in this measure, linked to a too short deadline, established on 31 December of this year, to the excessive duration of the time for the recovery of the investment carried out through the detachability extended over ten years and to the unjustified exclusion, compared to the ratio of the norm, from the audience of the beneficiaries according to a restrictive interpretation given by the Agency of revenues, of a number of subjects that due to the high social content of their mission should be among the first. 18.15 p.m. (BERTUZZI follow). Everyone, the Government, Parliament and bureaucracies, needs an effort of sound and serious realism, as it is due to those who hold certain roles. Madam President, I would like to turn over my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting, but I would like to draw the conclusion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. BERTUZZI (PD). It is necessary to have the time in the amending phase to recover the third criticality of this measure, that lies in the exclusion of the members of the cooperatives of undivided ownership. These cooperatives were set up by the legislator to facilitate access to the home of the less well-off categories. Today a restrictive interpretation of the Revenue Agency excludes them from the beneficiaries of these deductions. I believe that this is an iniquity to be recovered, and we have a chance to do so. It is an interpretative note, and therefore we are in a position at least to remedy the greatest iniquities contained in the provision. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u48	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u49	I call the rapporteur, Senator Sciascia.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u50	Madam President, just a few words. I have taken good note of what my fellow Members have said in this broad debate. Of course, I can't help but thank them. In addition, in particular, I would like to thank all the members of my Commission and the Commission for the valuable work we have done together. Some comments were made not negative, but not excessively positive towards the rapporteurs who, according to some, proved to be excessively subservient to the Government. We have tried to point out the Commission's manifestations in every way and, therefore, we believe that we have done our work in full. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Sangalli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u51	I call the rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u52	Madam President, a brief reply from me too to point out that the debate, by all the groups, has valued the importance of this measure for the interventions that are included in it, aimed at enhancing the real estate of our country and making an important contribution to the energy efficiency of our country. Obviously we are in a phase of passage also in the regime of the incentives and we understand well the sense that the Government has wanted to attribute to this measure from the next deadlines, within a regime of extension and increase of the incentive, in the hope that this type of bodily incentives can have an anti-conjunctural effect and give a boost to the consumptions and the revival of one of the driving sectors of the economy of our Country, like the construction, as well as the field of the plant. We also hope - as we said in the introductory report - that this measure will also be able to demobilise some of the savings of Italians and to encourage investment in this sector. We reiterate - as we said in the initial report and as all the groups have pointed out - the need for structural, regulatory and financial conditions to be created in the coming months, in joint work between the Government and Parliament, so that the measures that have been extended here can become stable and represent a clear reference for families, businesses and consumers. If we do so, even with different ways and greater graduality, I think that we will make structural one of the incentives that has been most successful for consumers and has contributed with anti-cyclical measures to support a fundamental sector of the economy of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u53	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my appreciation and thanks for the way in which the work has been carried out so far: a special thanks to the two Presidents Marino and Cucchetti, respectively of the Senate Finance and Industry Commissions, as well as to the two rapporteurs, Senators Tomaselli and Sciascia, for the great teamwork they have shown to be able to do. No servitude to the government: we are both on the same side, in the sense that we work in the interest of the country and try to apply the European directives to the best, which then have repercussions in the lives of our citizens. Several amendments were adopted in the course of the Commission's examination, which certainly - for the work that all the components have done - can be considered complementary and improved. Some issues still need to be properly defined, so I am sure that this House will be able to find the best answers and the whole Parliament will also be able to contribute to the definition of important issues, which have been the subject of further discussion in the Commission. The decree-law contains some rules of order for the transposition of the European directive and I would like to stress that a suggestion from the Regions has also been accepted, although the formal opinion has not been received; the unified conference has in fact suggested some changes concerning the definition of thermal plant, reducing also the administrative burden for small plants: this testifies that the debate has been as wide as possible. Other amendments have also been adopted to combine the opportunities offered by energy efficiency with the development of our national materials, construction, eco-tech industry and the promotion of employment. I would like to point out in particular (also depending on the Ministry of Economic Affairs) that an amendment has been accepted aimed at extending the Guarantee Fund - which, with the "decree of doing" has had an extension of the financial envelope - also to the costs incurred by the public administration for the preparation of the energy performance certificate as a result of efficiency interventions. The gradual intervention provided for in the Directive, given by the Framework, has been confirmed in order to reach the goal of building with almost zero energy, anticipating, if anything, some implementing instruments. With regard to Article 14 on tax deductions for energy efficiency measures, and Article 16 on tax deductions for energy restructuring and efficiency measures, an amendment was adopted, but we refer to the House for some definitions, which remain pending, on household appliances and furniture. The competent Commissions, together with the Government, have also agreed to concentrate the tools and resources to the maximum in an anticyclical function. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, colleagues! I call on the House to be more careful. Mr VICARI, State Secretary for Economic Development. I would like to thank all the senators who have spoken, but in particular I would like to thank Senator Pezzopane, for bringing the problem of the anti-seismic profile to the attention of the Government - as many other colleagues have done in the Commission - to the attention of the Assembly: we will not be able to include financial resources in this measure, but we will establish the principle, by receiving a paragraph of the amendment which identifies prevention, in the field of anti-seismic rules, and by entrusting to the law of stability the phase of implementation and therefore its financing. Finally, I would like to point out that the national energy strategy itself, with regard to tax deductions, envisages extending this measure over time, introducing a series of corrections and improvements, in order to make it more effective and efficient in terms of cost-benefit: we have adhered to this and we will continue to adhere to this. Among the possible improvements, the main ones concern a differentiation of the percentage of deductible expenditure, commensurate with the actual savings generated by the intervention, the introduction of parameters of maximum permissible specific cost per type of intervention (to avoid the transfer of part of the incentive in the prices of the products) and the specialization of the instrument to efficiency the building stock by reviewing the current perimeter of the actions allowed, in order to avoid the overlap with other incentives. Something is trying to do with this provision. The part concerning the prohibition - I like to call it that - of cumulation of incentives is not exhaustive, but we are sure that with the maximum cooperation between the Government and Parliament as a whole we can achieve an overall reality where the whole system is helped and encouraged and there are no cases of overlapping incentives on certain types of energy, which currently remains. By continuing to work in this climate, I am sure that we will succeed. I hope that the whole debate in the Commission, including with the help of the Budget Commission, will find some answers here that have not yet been received. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u55	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinions expressed by the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u56	- in Article 5 (1), paragraph "Article 4-a" in paragraph 2, it appears appropriate that the interministerial decree provided for therein, aimed at defining the action plan to increase the number of energy-intensive buildings, which is zero to the extent of the following observations: Having examined the relevant amendments, it expresses, as far as competence is concerned, the following opinions: - on amendment 8.6 contrary, since the reference to matters attributable to the exclusive competence of the State renders superfluous the provision of a regulatory adjustment obligation by regions and local authorities, since, pursuant to Article 117, sixth paragraph, regulatory power in matters of exclusive legislation rests with the State, without prejudice to the delegation of powers to the Regions; - on amendment 12.4 non-observatory opinion, provided that the provision therein, concerning the subject of shared competence, is formulated as a faculty and not as an obligation, in order to respect the constitutional autonomy granted to the regions in this matter; - on amendment 16.45 contrary opinion, since the provision, in limiting the deduction of tax provided for in that provision to couples only linked by a relationship of spouses, moreover exclusively on the basis of marriages contracted from 1 January 2013, seems unreasonable and detrimental to the principle of equality; - on amendment 16.0.7 contrary, as the provisions provided therein appear to be relevant to the competences of the Regions and local authorities, besides imposing additional obligations on the Regions as regards the constitutionality, in breach of this form, which is recognised as regards the financial autonomy, as regards the regions, as well as recognised as being subject to be subject to be subject to be subject to be subject to be subject of such an amendment to be subject; - in the financial obligation to be subject to be subject to which such an opinion; - as regards such an opinion; - as regards such an amendment to which is recognized by the other one of such an opinion; - as it is recognized by the other; - as it is recognised as it is recognised by the relevant to be governed by the other; - as such an opinion; The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the draft law in title, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion which does not preclude the assumption that: - Article 3 does not give rise to any additional burden on public administrations; - Article 5, paragraph "Art. 4-b ', paragraph 2, the appropriation on the Guarantee Fund in support of the implementation of district heating networks is actually adequate to finance projects as well, for improving energy efficiency in public buildings, considering that, according to the competent administration, this Fund has not yet been activated and the statistical data relating to the excussions carried out are not available; with the following condition, formulated in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution: - in Article 18 (1) the reference to Article 14 of Legislative Decree No 192 of 2005 must be deleted from the list of repeals, since it is entirely replaced by Article 10 of the measure under consideration and, in the new version, bears the clause of financial and administrative invariance; and with the following observation: - it is noted that, according to the competent authorities, the activities provided for in Articles 8, 12 and 17, paragraph 2, can actually be carried out with the human, financial and instrumental resources available to current legislation and, in any case, without new or greater burden on public finance. The examination of Articles 14, 16 and 21 shall be suspended. The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the draft law in title, in relation to the previously suspended parties, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion that is not precluded by the following observation: - the cover provided by Article 21 (3) (b) and (e) resulting from capital resources, could entail a dequalification of expenditure. Consequently, there are no comments on Articles 14 and 16 thereof. The Economic Planning Committee, which examined the amendments submitted by the Assembly relating to the draft law in title, gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution on proposals 1.1, 2,201, 5.11, 5.18, 5.19, 5.20, 5.204, 5.205, 6.14, 9.1, 9.4, 9.200, 13.0.1, 13.0.5, 13.0.6, 14.1, 14.3, 14.5, 14.10, 14.14, 14.19, 14.20, 14.21, 14.22, 14.25, 14.27, 14.30, 14.36, 14.37, 14.38, 14.40, 14,200, 14.201, 14.201, 14.203, 14.204, 14.300, 14.0.1, 14.0.1, 14.0.2, 14.0.3, 14.0.4, 15.3, 15.5, 15.9, 15.11, 15,200, 15.201, 15.0.1, 15.0.1, 15.200, 16, 16,0 16,0 16,0 16,3, 16.11, 16.12, 16.13, 16,18, 16.20, 16.30, 16.30, 16,32, 16.39, 16.35, 16, 16,38, 16, 16,37, 16, 16,200, 16, 16,0, 16,0 16,0 16,0 16,0 16,0 16,0, 16,42, 16,42, 16,42, 16, 16, 16,42, 16, 16,42, 16, 16, 16, 205, 16, 16, 205, 16, 2012, 16, 16, 16, 200, 16, 200, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16,10,2, 203, 16, 20, 2012, 16, 16, 16, 203, 16, 16, 2012, 16, 16, 2012, 16, 2012, 16, 20, 20, 20, 20, 35,, 35,, 35,, 35,, 35,, 35,, 35,, 35,, 35,, 35,, 35,, 35,, 35, 16, 35, 16, 35, 16, 35,, 35,, 35,, 35, 16, 35, 16, 35, 16, 35,, 35,, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 35,, 35,, 35,, 35,, 16, 16, 35,, 16, 35,, 35,, 16, 16, 16, 16, 16, 35,, 16, 16, 41,, 41,, 41,, 41,, 41,, 41,, 41,, 41,, 41,, 41,, 42,, 42,, 42,, 42,, 42,, 42,, 42,, 42,, 42,, 42,, 42,, 42,, 42,, 16, 20,200, 20.0.4, 20.0.200, 20.0.201, 20.0.202, 20.0.203 and 21.1. On Amendment 5.9, the opinion is void, conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the inclusion, in Article 5, paragraph "Article 4-b," paragraph 2, after the words: "it is used," of the following: "within the limits of the resources of the fund itself"; on Amendment 6.15, the opinion is also void, conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the inclusion, after the words: "it is used" of the following: "within the limits of the resources of the fund itself." As corrected by the previous notice, in relation to the clarifications given by the Government, the opinion on amendment 16.24 (text 3), is void, conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the deletion of the words from: "to be considered included" until the end of the period. On proposal 16.28 the opinion is also conditional on the deletion of the words "resulting" until the end of the amendment. On proposals 14.29, 16.29, 6.207, 12,200, 12,201, 13.0,200, 13.0,201, 6,200, the opinion is of simple opposition. On Amendment 7.10 the opinion is simply contrary, with the following comment: in extending an exemption, the amending proposal must be adequately coordinated with existing European reference legislation, in order to avoid negative consequences in terms of infringement procedures. The opinion is without prejudice to the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u59	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Madam President, I would like to draw the House's attention to an issue that has been dealt with by the 5th standing Commission, which in my opinion has not been properly resolved. I think it is useful to point out that it concerns a subject on which there are great discussions at the moment. I am referring to the ratio of lower revenues to the incentive of investment and how to cover these lower revenues and then also to the ratio of the impact of economic growth that the lower revenues give to the public budget. I would like to point out that the cover clause relating to Article 21 (3) (b) and (e) on which the 5th Permanent Commission has made a benevolent observation, emphasizing that the cover provided therein is to be applied to capital resources and could entail a dequalification of expenditure, is in express and direct violation of the norm referred to in Article 17 (1) (a) and (c) of Law No 196 of 2009, which is for the direct implementation of Article 81 of the Constitution; therefore, it is an almost interposed norm because it covers as much as 540 million euros of current revenue with capital appropriations, with the motivation given by the General Accounting that since these minor revenues put private investments into motion... (Brusio). Excuse me, Madam President, but it is really difficult to speak with this buzz. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Excuse me, Madam President, but I can't speak with this buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u60	We're following her. I have called this House several times. Please, Senator Lanzillotta, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u61	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). ...with the motivation that these lower revenues trigger private investment and, therefore, can well replace private investment with public investment provided by the state budget. Since, as you know, in view of the consolidation policies, public investment expenditure has been gradually reduced, this cannot be an acceptable reasoning for a form of coverage, nor can it be replaced by another reasoning that we must make, namely that incentives for private investment in terms of revenue generate new current revenue (such as VAT) which must be evaluated and accounted for in the budget to cover these measures. I say this, Madam President, in future memory, because, since this issue will be the focus of the debate on public finance policy in the coming months, I believe that this line and direction, in addition to the explicit violation of Article 81 of the Constitution that we are doing, cannot be supported. [[Applause from the SCPI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u62	Senator Azzollini intends to intervene? [[Senator Azzollini makes a point of denial.]] I take note of that. In expressing its opinion, the 5th Permanent Commission carries out a technical and accounting assessment of the coverage of measures and amendments. Of this assessment, the Presidency can only take note, as it takes note, of course, of what Senator Lanzillotta said. Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency, after having carefully assessed the amendments tabled, has found some proposals that are outside the scope of the debate. In particular, amendment 140.5 amends the limit on the prohibition of research and cultivation of hydrocarbons at sea in seismic areas; amendments 16.18, 16.19 and 16.200 are intended to introduce further deductions for the only territories affected by certain specific calamitous events, while the amending proposals 16.42 and 16.43 extend the deduction for restructuring also to the purchase of fire-retardant furniture; amendment 17.0.1, instead, of an orderly nature, includes the establishment of the national plan for electrification of docks. Amendments 20.0.5, aimed at raising the limit on the prohibition of the transfer and use of cash and bearer securities, and 20.0.200, on deductible charges for liberal payments in support of cultural events, as well as proposals 20.0.2, 20.0.4, 20.0.201 and 20.0.203, with changes of an orderly nature to the VAT tax regime and its penalty system, are also outside the scope of the directive. The Presidency therefore declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 14.0.5, 16.18, 16.19, 16.200, 16.42, 16.43, 10.0.1, 20.0.5, 20.0.200, 20.0.2, 20.0.4, 20.0.201 and 20.0.203 cannot be proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u63	Madam President, with amendment 1.1 we call for the deletion of the part of Article 1 which makes improving energy efficiency subject to a cost-related ex post investigation, in the sense that any energy efficiency intervention projects its effectiveness very far into the future, we could say indefinitely, that is, until the functionality of the structure itself ends. Therefore, to subordinate this to a mere economic calculation, which cannot be done by its very nature, is clearly improbable. Amendment 1.4 calls for energy certification to be transferred when you have a change of ownership, because when you change ownership, or by ownership or by use, the tenant or buyer also takes charge of the energy honesty of the property that it acquires: consequently, this must be the subject of annotation. On the other hand, as regards the concept of energy supply of a dwelling, we believe that first of all every dwelling must be conceived as an entity capable of producing energy, and not only as an entity that must use energy; therefore, before thinking of going to look for energy outside, diversifying, priority should be given to the generation of energy on site by a dwelling, and not only to contain its energy consumption.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u64	Madam President, I will be very careful to know the opinion of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government on amendment 1.16, which does not have any importance from the point of view of expenditure but which provides for the need to promote the culture of responsibility in terms of the exploitation of network water, hence the saving of water resources, also in order to reduce energy consumption and the disposal of plastics and glass. This would not only have an important educational character but would be a very strong signal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u65	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u66	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u67	I am against Amendment 1.1, because it cannot be done, and Amendment 1.3. I am in favour of 1.4 on condition that the text is reworded by replacing the term: "certification" with "certificate" which, among other things, is the new terminology used in the decree, transposing the Community directive in question. The opinion is also in favour of amendment 1.5 and against amendments 1.6 and 1,200. I am also in favour of amendment 1.9 (text 2), with which we intend to incorporate the following amendments: 1.10, 1.11 and 1.14. Finally, I am opposed to Amendment No 1.16 and I am in favour of Amendments Nos 1, 17 and 1.18.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u68	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u69	Let us move on to Amendment 1.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, we are calling for a simultaneous roll-call vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-bis Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. A proposal for a rewording has been made on Amendment 1.4. I'm asking the presenters if they accept it. MARTELLI (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.4 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.4 (text 2) tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, we are asking for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, with the use of the electronic procedure. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I kindly invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are kindly asking for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,200 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.9 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.9 (text 2) tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. Amendments 1.10, 1.11 and 1.14 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.16. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.17. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.17, tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.18. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and of an agenda relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u70	Madam President, the objective of Amendment No 2,201 is to avoid the inclusion of new definitions on the terms of "cogeneration" and "renewable sources" instead of using those already provided for in Community directives. Therefore, it is only a question of clarity of the rules so as not to compromise the factivity of the rules outlined in the measure. In particular, in reference to the definition of "cogeneration" and "cogeneration" with high efficiency, the explicit reference to the legislation established, under Legislative Decree No 20 of 8 February 2007. The definition thus envisaged, in addition to being more legally correct because it refers to a Community Directive of which Legislative Decree No 20 of 8 February 2007 is transposition act, allows the installation of cogeneration as such, as provided for in the Community Directive currently being transposed. In line with this approach, aimed at avoiding the overlapping of definitions likely to lead to poor and ambiguous interpretations, the amendment proposes to include also for the definition of energy from renewable sources supplemented by that of biomass the reference to the most up-to-date definition, pursuant to Legislative Decree No 28 of 3 March 2011, which brings substantial enrichments of the old definition provided for by Legislative Decree No 387 of 2003, such as the reference to the biodegradable fraction of products, waste and residues of organic origin from agriculture, as well as the reference to fisheries and aquaculture, to cracks and pruning coming from public and private greenery. [[Senator Susta's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u71	Madam President, I will speak briefly to give the meaning of amendment 2.26, on which I hope the rapporteurs will give a favourable opinion together with the Government. We live, alas, in a country with high seismicity, as we discover daily: the last events are those of Lunigiana; first there was Pollino, then Emilia-Romagna and Abruzzo, and we could go back over the years, until Irpinia and beyond. These events cost lives, the most serious cost, and also economic resources, and preventing it would certainly be cheaper than rebuilding by intervening later, but unfortunately public finances do not allow it. The adoption of anti-seismic adjustment measures on real estate must therefore be encouraged in all possible ways. For these reasons, with this amendment we add to the extraordinary maintenance and restructuring operations that also have energy efficiency those of anti-seismic adaptation, that can have the same effectiveness, thus giving an additional incentive to the private that intends to make safer, the heritage also from the anti-seismic point of view, can intervene at its expense having then a refreshment from the State. I therefore hope that this amendment will be welcomed by rapporteurs and Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u72	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u73	Madam President, with regard to amendment 2.1, a rewording is proposed on which the opinion would be favourable. If reworded, amendment 2.1 would also absorb amendments 2.2, 2200 and 2.3. If you think, Madam President, I would read the rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u74	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u75	Mr Tomaselli, rapporteur. I would ask you, for those who want to follow, to pay attention because with the proposed reformulation they change a number of words over a fairly long period of time. Of course, the new text will be made available, but I intend to read it and so whoever wants it will be able to follow it on the original text contained in the amendments file. It is proposed to reword point (c) as follows: "energy performance of a building" is the annual amount of primary energy actually consumed or expected to be necessary to meet, with standard use of the building, the various energy needs of the building, winter and summer air conditioning, preparation of hot water for sanitary use, ventilation and, for the tertiary sector, lighting, lifts and escalators. This quantity is expressed by one or more descriptors which also take into account the level of insulation of the building and the technical characteristics and installation of the technical installations. The energy performance may be expressed in non-renewable primary energy, renewable energy, or total energy as the sum of the previous energy performances. Then the amendment goes on unchanged from the word "So" until the end. This is the proposed reformulation. As I said, the reworded amendment incorporates Amendments 2.2, 2200 and 2.3. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I apologise, Senator Tomaselli, but the presidency will then speak on absorption. The rapporteur must confine himself to giving his opinion on the amendments. Mr Tomaselli, rapporteur. With regard to Amendments 2.2, 2200 and 2.3, while waiting for the Presidency to give its opinion on this matter, I believe that they are considered to be incorporated into Amendment 2.1, as reworded. The opinion is opposed to Amendments 2.6, 2.8 and 2,201, on which there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission, Article 81 of the Constitution. Amendment 2.202 is withdrawn, while I am against Amendments 2.13, 2.12, 2.203 and 2.16. With regard to amendment 2.18, it is also related to amendment 2.1, from which it would be absorbed, since in this case too there are technological installations that refer to amendment 2.1. The same applies to Amendment No 2.18 as to Amendments Nos 2.19, 2.20, 2.21 and 2.204, which are essentially identical. On the other hand, I am opposed to amendment 2.23, whereas I would urge the presenters to withdraw amendment 2.25 and turn it into an agenda; among other things, on the issue of seismic adjustments we will intervene later with another amendment. The call for the withdrawal and conversion of the agenda also applies to Amendment 2.26. I am also in favour of amendment 2.27 (text 2), with the proposal to replace the words "12 kW" with the following: "10 kW" Finally, I propose the provision of amendment 2.28.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u76	Madam President, in view of your call to the rapporteur, if you will allow me, I would also like to specify the Government's opinion on certain amendments. As regards, first of all, Amendments 2.2, 2,200 and 2.3 are to be incorporated into Amendment 2.1, where the proposed rewording is accepted. I am against Amendments 2.6 and 2.8, while on Amendment 2,201 the opinion would have been in favour, but I take note of the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission, Article 81 of the Constitution. I am against Amendments 2.12, 2.13, 2.16 and 2.203. If the rewording of amendment 2.1 is accepted, amendments 2.18, 2.19, 2.20, 2.21 and 2.204 shall be deemed to be absorbed. I am against Amendment 2.23. The content of amendments 2.25 and 2.26, which concern a very sensitive issue also by the Government and the members of the Commission, will be reconsidered when we deal with Article 15. I have a positive opinion on Amendment 2.27 (text 2), with a rewording, as it is necessary to harmonise the rule provided for in the decree of the President of the Republic No 74 of 2013 concerning inspections of thermal installations. Amendment 2.28, identical to Amendments 2.29 and 2.30, concerns an alternative method already applied in some cases and will be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u77	We have therefore checked that the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u80	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 2.13.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u83	LANGELLA (PdL). Madam President, as Head of the People of Freedom of the 10th President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Commission to Amendment 2.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u86	Borioli (PD). Madam President, I withdraw amendment 2.23.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u89	VACCARI (PD). Madam President, I accept the rapporteur's invitation and withdraw Amendment 2.25 to establish an agenda which I have already tabled. However, I would like to see the seismic adjustments, which Senator Margiott has already mentioned, being dealt with, as the Undersecretary rightly pointed out, when we deal with Article 15, which has been the subject of further amendments on the same subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u92	MARGIOTTA (PD). Madam President, I too welcome the rapporteur's invitation to turn Amendment 2.26 into an agenda. I believe that we could begin to deal with this issue from this point of view. However, I agree, even if not willingly, with the opinion of the rapporteur and the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u93	Given the very broad rewording of amendment 2.1, read by the rapporteur and accepted by the authors, I do not know whether we can take its financial cover for granted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u96	Mr Azzollini (PdL). Madam President, in view of the substantial rewording of amendment 2.1, I would ask for a momentary provision for it to be verified and to decide, on the basis of the text, whether I can give an immediate opinion under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure or whether it is necessary to convene the 5th standing Commission. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u97	The Presidency proposes to put aside Article 2 and its related amendments, since there are many related to the amendment in question, while others have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u98	Madam President, I would like to set out amendment 3.8, which seemed common sense to us and in line with European Union Directive No 31 of 2010, of which Decree-Law No 63 of 2013 is an act of transposition. This amendment is intended to prevent the owners of homes used for short periods, such as those in holiday resorts, from being obliged to bear new charges and costs during a period of severe crisis in the real estate sector such as the current one.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u99	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u100	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u101	I am against Amendments 3,200 (correct text), 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7. Amendment 3.8 calls for withdrawal or conversion into an agenda, otherwise the opinion is against it. On the other hand, I am in favour of Amendment 3.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u102	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u105	PELINO (PdL). I withdraw amendment 3.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u106	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,200 (correct text). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,200 (correct text), tabled by Senators Dalla Zuanna and Di Biagio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 3.1. FIXORE (PD). I shall withdraw it, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Arrigoni and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 3.2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. Amendment 3.3 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Girotto and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 3.5. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Santangelo and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 3.6. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Nugnes and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 3.7. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. Amendment 3.8 calls for withdrawal or conversion into an agenda. I therefore ask the presenters whether they accept this invitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u107	Madam President, we do not accept the invitation and we ask for the amendment to be put to the vote. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u108	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.8. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.8 tabled by Senator Council and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.10. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u109	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 4.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u110	Madam President, the point of amendment 4.6 is very clear: it proposes to add storage systems to electricity produced from renewable sources, because they are very advantageous; they would, among other things, remove the problems that arise in the operation of electricity networks and maximise the contribution they can make to the monthly compensation between energy requirements and renewable energy produced within the system, as provided for in Article 1 (a) (4). This would be a further advantage, in accordance with the spirit of the decree itself. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u111	Mr President, I would remind you that Amendment 4.3 has been withdrawn. I am against Amendments 4.2, 4.200, 4.5 and 4.6. I call on the authors to withdraw amendment 4.7, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am in favour of amendment 4.8 (text 2). We call on the authors to withdraw Amendments 4.9 and 4.12, otherwise the opinion is against it. I would like to point out that amendments 4.9 and 4.12, although later put forward, refer to the text of amendment 4.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u112	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u115	VACCARI (PD). Madam President, I accept the rapporteur's invitation and withdraw Amendment 4.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u118	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 4,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u121	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, I withdraw Amendments 4.2 and 4.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u124	Mr Azzollini (PdL). Madam President, in order only to facilitate the work, I can tell you that a sufficiently detailed examination (for what the time allows) of text 2 of amendment 2.1 can confirm the opinion of nothing which the Commission had already given on the original text, which seems to us to be a definition which, in some respects, could even be restrictive compared to the previous one and, therefore, potentially less costly. This seems to be the case, but in any case, since it is definitions, our opinion has been of no objection to the original text of amendment 2.1 and is confirmed for text 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u127	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to make one point on Amendment 3.10: the vote that appeared was abstaining; on the other hand, the 5 Star Movement wanted to vote in favour and I would ask that it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u128	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendments 4.3, 4.2 and 4.200 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Girotto and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 4.5. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u131	MASTRANGELI (Mixed). Madam President, I would like to point out that this is the second time this has happened. Senator D'Anna just voted for Senator Milo for the second time. [[Lively comments from the PdL Group]] I ask for the record (Brussio).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u132	I ask everyone to be quiet. Any reporting shall be carried out with the appropriate checks. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u135	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. Madam President, I would like to point out that it is an ignoble practice and to fight to vote for a person who is not here.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u136	There is no need to call anyone back because we all know the rules in this House and I believe that anyone who breaks them should be sanctioned, because - I repeat - the rules apply to everyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The rules are known by everyone and apply to everyone. No one can vote for anyone else. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u137	Amendments 4.7 and 4.9 have been withdrawn. With regard to amendment 4.12, there was an invitation to withdraw. I ask the presenters if they welcome him. [[Senator Girotto's notes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u140	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, on Amendment 4.12, we have not received an invitation to withdraw. However, we are asking for it to be put to the vote. Mr VICARI, State Secretary for Economic Development. But there was.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u141	Senator Santangelo, can we proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.8 (text 2)? I put to the vote amendment 4.8 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. It's approved. With regard to Amendment 4.12, did we well understand that it had been withdrawn? GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, I did not withdraw this amendment, and I request the vote on the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.12. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.12, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u142	We resume the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 2 of the Decree-Law, previously provided for. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1 (text 2), on which the President of the 5th standing Commission has given an opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u145	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, as drafters of amendment 2.3, which will be absorbed by the adoption of amendment 2.1 (text 2), we ask that we be able to add our signature to this amending proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u146	We always take note of the fact that you rightly anticipate the Presidency in declaring the amendments absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u149	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Madam President, we, too, as the authors of Amendment 2,200, which will be absorbed by the adoption of this amendment, ask that we be able to add our signature to Amendment 2.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u152	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we are asking you to know the text 2 of Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u153	The revised text of amendment 2.1 will be presented to you immediately. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 2.1 (text 2) tabled by Senator Fissore and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. Amendments 2.2, 2200 and 2.3 are therefore incorporated. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.6 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u156	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to inform the Offices that my electronic device did not work at the previous vote, nor did my colleague Mr Blundo's. I would ask you to take note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u157	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.8. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 2,201 is impervious. Amendments 2.202 and 2.13 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u160	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Madam President, I withdraw amendment 2.203.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u161	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.12 which is essentially the same as Amendment 2.16. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.12, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 2.16, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. Senator Girotto, do you insist on voting on Amendment 2.18? GIROTTO (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 218, which is identical to Amendments 2.19, 2.20, 2.21 and 2.204. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.18, tabled by Senator Girotto and other Senators, identical to amendments 2.19, tabled by Senator Pelino and other Senators, 2.20, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other Senators, 2.21, tabled by Senator Fissore and other Senators and 2.204, tabled by Senators Dalla Zuanna and Di Biagio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. Amendment 2.23 has been withdrawn. As amendments 2.25 and 2.26 have been transformed into agendas, I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u162	I am in favour of this, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u163	Madam President, I would ask that the agendas be voted on in conjunction with Rule 15 because, even if it is very acceptable in its content, the wording suffers a little. Since we would need some time to find a better wording, I would ask that we be able to postpone the examination together with Article 15.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u164	Let us put the agenda aside momentarily to allow the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to better verify the texts as reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u167	VACCARI (PD). Madam President, I said earlier that I had already withdrawn Amendment 2.25 and tabled an agenda on the same subject by transforming Amendment 15.5 so we can take it back, if necessary, after that.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u170	Mr VICARI, State Secretary for Economic Development. Madam President, as a result of verification, the Government is in favour of accepting these agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u171	Therefore, amendment 2.25 has been withdrawn, while, having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.26 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.27 (text 3). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.27 (text 3), tabled by the Joint Committees. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 783 PRESIDENT. Amendment 2.28 has been put aside. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda for G2.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u172	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u173	The Government is in favour of acceptance.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u174	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for the G2100 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u175	Madam President, just in line with what this Group has always supported over the last period with regard to the exclusion of certain elements from the Stability Pact, Amendment 5.11 calls for the exclusion of expenditure incurred by municipalities and provinces with a view to improving energy efficiency to the maximum amount of EUR 300 million for the three-year period 2013-2015 from subjecting to the Internal Stability Pact. This amendment aims to promote the construction of new buildings with very high energy performance, in line with the requirements of European Directive 2010/31/EU.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u176	Madam President, on the agenda, Mr G5.103, we wanted to point out to everyone, and therefore also to the Government, that most of the speeches on efficiency concern the building rather than what is to be built. We must remember that 80% of Italian real estate was built in the years of the building and demographic boom, between 1946 and 1985. In those years the cost of energy was very low and therefore no one thought to intervene in building to make buildings energy efficient. The purpose of the agenda is to give us time. We finally want to define how long we plan to restructure all the Italian, public and private building assets. Otherwise you always talk about what you want to do, but you never say in how long you want to do it, fundamental aspect to plan what companies will have to do (Brusio). I know you don't care, but it would be interesting to understand what we say... [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u177	Please! Senator Cioffi, continue, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u178	CIOFFI (M5S). So, if the construction sector is blocked, it would be good to think of unlocking it instead of making new constructions, which the 5 Star Movement considers useless, trying to restructure the existing. So, the point of the agenda is precisely this: let's get the construction sector back on track, which needs it, but restructuring it all. Let's give time: the aim is to predict a policy that, within twenty years, reconstructs the entire public real estate park and within twenty-five rebuilt all the private park. Let's get Italy back on track, if we can. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u179	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment 5.20. With this amendment, we call for the exclusion of the costs incurred by the municipalities in their efforts to improve the energy efficiency of public lighting, which also enables road safety to be improved, light pollution to be reduced and installations to be brought into compliance.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u180	Madam President, I rise in relation to the agenda that I have presented, the G5.101, which commits the Government to consider the need to exclude the constraints imposed by the Stability Pact for capital expenditure incurred by the Municipalities; in particular, those resources which the Municipalities themselves commit to carrying out technological works and systems aimed at increasing energy efficiency in public-owned buildings. We therefore call for attention to be paid to this issue by excluding this expenditure from the Stability Pact.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u181	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. Colleagues, having regard to the time, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u184	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I would like to draw the Presidency's attention to something important for the 5 Star Movement: the need to bring the political debate back to its institutional place, Parliament, be it the Chamber of the House or the Senate. In particular, I would like to highlight the statements made during the television show "Omnibus" by Senator Lanzillotta, who said that the 5 Star Movement voted against some important amendments in the case of motions on state participations. That is not true, shorthand report, so we ask the Presidency to have Senator Lanzillotta correct what was said during that transmission. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u185	We will verify and take note.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u188	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, there has been yet another death cry from the world of culture on Friday. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are all tired, but I would like the speaker to speak calmly. AIROLA (M5S). Thank you, President. On Friday we heard yet another death cry from the world of culture and cultural heritage. Strikes throughout Italy have created great discomfort to tourism: from Pompeii to the Uffizi Gallery in Florence. Between trade unions (CGIL, CISL and UIL), UNESCO and the Ministry of Cultural Heritage came mutual criticism and accusations. Who pays is actually the entire country, because the real problem is not only in the central and local bad management of the patrimony, it is not only in the exploitation of workers for the increasingly small or for those contracting cooperatives that give a few euros to a enslaved staff, it is not in assisting the destruction of the immense Italian artistic wealth: no, the real problem is in the absence of a willingness to invest with a strategic plan on culture. The fault of this and of previous governments is that they have ignored the possibility of concentrating investments and resources in the world's greatest artistic heritage, in having deprived us of a flourishing economy and an economic and social well-being and the possibility of growing in harmony and evolving into a more just society. Culture is all this. Now, as we have already done during the discussion of the DEF, we reiterate that it is imperative to establish a reasoned investment plan and to relaunch the whole cultural sector. We have already reminded this House and you senators of the impressive number of jobs and the economic revival that the whole country would enjoy; and if you really care about this country, you should immediately implement these demands, otherwise we will have yet another confirmation that you prefer to destroy and sell our history and allow ignorance to degrade the Italian people by making it miserable and succubous. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If we are in this House today, it is also thanks to the culture we have received. If you senators are here, it's because of school and education, our assets. Please listen to the cry of culture. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u189	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u191	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Madam President, from one cry of pain to another. On 10 June 2013, the multinational TNT informed the trade unions, with a registered letter, of the formal initiation of procedures for 854 employees in Italy. In Piedmont alone (the region from which I come and the place of election) 267 workers will be put on the move. Let us bear in mind that we are talking in large part about women of the level of employment, in all cases without social shock absorbers and that therefore, in the face of a maintenance of this procedure by the TNT, they would be in a position to be helped, as unfortunately many other workers in these months, by the fund in derogation of the Regions. What has emerged in recent weeks, since the letter arrived, is the total disinterest of the company to participate in the meetings organized both at local level and at the level of regional and provincial institutions. I would therefore ask you, Madam President, to send a pressing request to the Government, as already represented with a letter from me sent in recent days to the Ministry of Economic Development, for the urgent opening of a national table, to oblige the company at least to present itself. We are in fact faced with 854 people, mostly women, who are being put on the move, and there are no shock absorbers. This is another very hard blow to employment in this country, and I believe that the Government should stop accepting that foreign multinationals, Europeans, can arrive in Italy, shop and leave our fellow citizens in the middle of the road. This is becoming an industrial policy problem. It is necessary and urgent - and I am truly praying to you in this regard - that the Ministry of Economic Development does not manage these facts in a bureaucratic way. The TNT story is the tip of an iceberg, but it's a pretty big iceberg. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u192	Thank you, Senator Esposito. I think it's important that we take charge of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u193	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-55.ana.u194	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, July 3, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.02 p.m.
