ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.37. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u3	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u4	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u5	Mussolini (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, very serious statements were made by the head of the 5 Star Movement around 1.30 p.m. to the detriment of parties which are then praised in the Commissions: this was also the case in the Special Commission for the examination of draft laws for the conversion of decree-laws. These are really insulting and outrageous phrases to which, once again, as I did yesterday, I will not be here to reply. I would ask the leader Vito Crimi to deny these statements, otherwise, dear President, I would like to refer to Rules 66 and 67 of the Senate Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we will have a problem here, because extremely serious political statements can be made in the extra-parliamentary session. This will undoubtedly have to be taken into account in the Senate's Rules of Procedure. So, I repeat, I call on the Crimi leader to deny these statements, otherwise I call for disciplinary sanctions to be applied. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senators Ranucci, Marcucci and Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u8	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, Senator Mussolini refers to a post appearing on Beppe Grillo's blog and the fact that this happens in an extra-parliamentary place is a responsibility of Mr. Giuseppe Piero Grillo. So I have no duty to deny your statements in this capacity. Therefore, if we are to maintain disciplinaryly relevant behaviors here, we will respond to them, myself or every individual senator, but we will certainly not respond to statements which, among other things, other political leaders have accustomed us over the years on other occasions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of this issue to read the note that, precisely following yesterday's speech by Senator Mussolini and the contacts he had with the President of the Sicilian Region, President Crocetta sent so that I could participate in everything the Senate: "Illustrated President I feel the duty, in the capacity of President of the Sicilian Region and citizen respectful of the Institutions of the Italian Republic and its representatives, to express firm dissent and reprobation for the contents and tones of what has been said in recent days by Franco Battiato towards political parties and individual representatives of the National Parliament. The gravity of the statements made by the same, which cannot be amended by any clarification or clarification, takes even more importance in view of the position of Councillor of the Sicilian Region by the same covered and the place where they were issued. The lack of respect demonstrated by the same for the Italian and Community institutions and their representatives determines the failure of a requirement that I consider essential to hold a position in the regional government that I chaired and an irreparable vulnus of the relationship that linked the same Councillor to the President of the Region and the Regional Council. I therefore represent to you that, with immediate effect, I have arranged to end Franco Battiato from the office of Regional Councillor. With the esteem of all time. Rosario Crocetta. [[Applause from the PD, PDL, LAG and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u10	On 26 March 2013, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Mr President, I inform you that the President of the Republic, with his own decree adopted today on my proposal, has accepted the resignation resigned by the Giuliomaria Terzi of Sant'Agata from the post of Minister for Foreign Affairs. By the same decree, the President of the Republic gave me the task of interim holding the said dicastery. Devoted respects f.to Mario MONTI.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I am reading the note sent by the President of the Council of Ministers: "Rome, 27 March 2013 Honourable President, I inform S. V. that, by decree of the President of the Republic, adopted today on my proposal, after approval by the Council of Ministers, pursuant to Article 10 (3) of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, of the delegations of functions conferred by me as interim Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been assigned the title of Deputy Minister to the Subsecretaries of State at the same Dicastery, Dr Marta Dassù and Dr. Staffan de Mistura. Devoted respects f.to Mario MONTI.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u12	The next item is: Information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the story of the two rifles of Marina Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone. I call the President of the Council of Ministers and the interim Minister for Foreign Affairs, Senator Monti.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor today in this House, as I did just now in the Chamber of Deputies, because, after yesterday's communications to the House by the Foreign Minister Giulio Terzi of Sant'Agata and the announcement in the Chamber of his resignation, I believe it is the institutional duty of the President of the Council to present to Parliament and to the country the assessments that guided the action of the Government in the affair involving our two rifles of Marina, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, and which led to a serious crisis in relations with India. In addition to this institutional duty, I also warn the moral and political one to address not only the two rifles of Marina Latorre and Girone, but all our soldiers, the police, diplomats, state officials and volunteers who work on missions abroad, in distant theatres and in conditions of risk, to defend the safety of our citizens, the national interest, the values and the honor of the Italian Republic. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PdL groups and Senator Marton]] First of all, I would like to summarize briefly the facts, which have now been known, which have led to this tragic affair, until the unexpected resignation of the Foreign Minister. On 15 and 16 February 2012 two facts happened: the lives of two Indian fishermen of Kerala were lost, in an accident whose dynamics are still subject to judicial review, and a ship flying the Italian flag was brought, with presumptuous reasons, into the port of Kochi. Here began the human, personal and professional drama of our two rifles of Marina, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, who carried out, with abnegation and indisputable professionalism, a mission of contrast to piracy in the Indian Ocean; a mission of contrast recognized by the UN as a contribution to international security and to which Italy makes a significant contribution. The Government has immediately protested firmly for the vulnus created by the Indian decision to block an Italian ship protected by Italian military engaged in actions against piracy in international waters. Since 16 February, my personal and government commitment has been absolute. Undersecretary De Mistura has been sent to Kerala to personally verify the treatment reserved for the two rifles of Marina, also coming to stand physically against the transfer of Latorre and Girone to the ordinary prison of Kochi and obtaining a treatment more appropriate to their status. At the same time, Italy has called for the support of our most authoritative European, American, African and Asian partners and in the UN, building on the concerns about the serious risk created with such a precedent for the status of the military involved in operations to combat piracy. During those months I have personally made contact several times with the Indian Prime Minister Singh and I have taken the opportunity of several bilateral and multilateral meetings, such as the G8 and the G20, to explain to the Allied countries and the international community the Italian position and to urge their condemnation of a behaviour, that of the Indian authorities, likely to weaken the action of the international community in the activity of combating piracy. I personally gave the same message to the Secretary-General of the United Nations at the General Assembly in New York. At the same time, it was the Government's objective to isolate this affair from the overall bilateral relations with India. The priority of the government's action was, in fact, always to ensure the safety, security and dignity of our two maroons and of all Italian citizens who are, for personal or work reasons, in India, economic and commercial partners - as is known - of primary importance. This objective has always been the fundamental aim of every initiative of the Government. Allow me to forcefully reject any illusion to possible trade or confidential agreements. The assessments of possible economic interests have not affected the priority objective of protecting our fellow countrymen. We have patiently woven a web of relations with India that has allowed us to improve significantly the conditions of our maròs, until they have been transferred to New Delhi, at the Italian embassy. No strategy of frontal opposition would have led to different results, because it would have collided with the fact that our two gunmen were held in the hands of Indian justice. The intense action of the Government has allowed to maintain a difficult dialogue, but constant, with New Delhi. As a result of this progressive improvement in the context in which the case was located, the Italian Government requested and obtained two subsequent permits to return to Italy, close and of prolonged duration, which were the subject of strong criticism in the Indian press. I would like to point out that these were concrete results which were far from obvious. In order to allow the two rifles to temporarily return to their homes on the occasion of the Christmas holidays, the Government requested permission from the Indian authorities in December. An analogous special permission - this time of a month - was required later, and obtained, to allow our military to participate in the general elections. In both cases the Government and, individually, our two military have formally committed themselves, through affidavit, to the return to India at the end of the period set. These were formal commitments that the Government assumed within the limits dictated by the respect of our constitutional order, in the awareness of the need to maintain faith in the word given and to safeguard the credibility of the international image of the entire country. I would remind you that between the two permits came the decision of the Supreme Court of India of 18 January, which established for the first time that the facts had occurred outside the Indian territorial waters and that it took away the jurisdiction of the case from the State of Kerala. However, the Supreme Court denied the jurisdiction of the flag State of the vessel and made no reference to the question of the functional immunity of the organs of the State. On the contrary, it asserted the jurisdiction of the Union of India to judge the two rifles of Marina. In particular, the Supreme Court, in a contradictory manner and without adequate justification, claimed the exercise of sovereign rights of jurisdiction of India also in the sea area where the incident had occurred, contrary to a rule of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, known as UNCLOS (United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea). This Convention limits the powers of the coastal state in the contiguous zone, that between 12 and 24 miles, to specific cases, between which the incident of navigation does not fall. The question always came from the same sentence submitted to a special court in India, to be constituted later to judge the two maroons. The Supreme Court indicated that the special court should first consider whether the case of the two Navy rifles should be dealt with by the two governments in the framework of UNCLOS (the UN Convention), which refers to Article 100, the commitment of the signatory States to cooperate in the fight against piracy. On this basis, the Government acted promptly to enter into consultations with the Indian Government leading to the opening of an arbitration procedure. In this way, the most controversial legal point could have been dissolved in a neutral and objective forum, namely that of the jurisdiction competent to judge the facts. At our request for bilateral consultations on this point, however, there was a closure on the Indian side. To the outcome of a series of meetings, already reported in the report read yesterday to the Chamber of Deputies by the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, which would have been presented yesterday to the Senate if he had not resigned, it was found that the Indian side had not even shown any willingness to communicate the characteristics of the setting up ad hoc tribunal, with the consequent possible violations of constitutional and international principles that eventually invalidated also the terms of the affidavit, affidavit which - I would like to remind you and underline it - expressly linked the commitments made by Italy to the need to implement them - I quote - As you can see, the verification of constitutional compatibility was not pretentious but necessary, also in the light of Italy's commitments. Our initiative has always been aimed at guaranteeing the context in which the two Italian soldiers were to be judged: a fair trial, within a reasonable time, with the exclusion of penalties incompatible with our constitutional system. This line has always been present at all stages of the affair, and therefore both at the stage in which the verbal note was prepared, then transmitted on 11 March, and at the stage in which, on 21 March, the meeting of the Interministerial Committee for the Security of the Republic (CISR) was held. In fact, I must add that, when tension is growing and there is some doubt as to the effectiveness of the operation of the strategy agreed in government with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I felt that I would follow the matter firsthand, not only through consultations but through the involvement of the Interministerial Committee for the Security of the Republic, which is chaired by the President of the Council and composed of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Defence, Justice, Internal Affairs, Economics and Finance and Economic Development. As I have just mentioned, on 11 March the Indians were informed by us of the request to initiate bilateral consultations under Article 100 of the UNCLOS and that the two military would not return to India, pending the start of a consultation process between Rome and New Delhi, even at a merely informal level, between legal experts from the two countries. We also kept the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, and the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs, Catherine Ashton, informed of these developments. It was therefore a decision which was destined to be reviewed in the light of the desired bilateral consultations and which, therefore, should not have been the subject of hasty statements to the press, which Minister Terzi felt instead of issuing, anticipating a final result that could not yet be taken for granted. At the same time, the Indian position stiffened, leaving room for aggressive statements, which resulted in the Supreme Court's injunction to our ambassador in New Delhi, which was unacceptable to restrict his freedom of movement, in clear violation of the Vienna Convention. It is at this juncture that New Delhi, on the one hand, threatened to resort to retortive measures and, on the other hand, as of March 20, sent us signals of willingness to resolve the dispute in a short time, on the assumption of the return of the Marò at the scheduled date of March 22. Therefore, on 20 and again on 21 March, the Interministerial Committee for the Security of the Republic, to which I have already referred, met to analyse the situation in the light of these developments. The CISR, in the face of the serious worsening of the crisis with India, and in the face of the Indian indication of a willingness to resume a dialogue in extremis on the basis of respect for affidavit, asked Minister Terzi what concrete elements of real support for Italy's action were. Having noted that there were serious and objective risks that Italy would be isolated at international level from a crisis of serious proportions with India, the CISR unanimously shared the need to check whether, on the Indian side, formal assurances could be received on two fundamental aspects: first, the status and dignity of our seas upon their eventual return to India; second, the exclusion of capital punishment from the constitution special court. Other assurances, which were part of the same strategy of reopening the dialogue, were examined, but were not considered to be preliminary as the first two that I mentioned. It was, in particular, the initiation of the arbitration procedure under Article 100 of the UNCLOS and the restoration of immunity for our ambassador. The latter is absolutely important, so much so that Italy has advanced and will continue to advance all the necessary steps to reaffirm this indispensable principle, but that in this case it was resolved in re ipsa with the return of the marò by the planned date, in accordance with the insurances provided to the undersecretary De Mistura by the Indian authorities before its departure. These assurances were received in writing on the afternoon of March 21 and therefore, on the basis of a painful, responsible and commendable availability of the maròs, who gave further proof of their exemplary attachment to the country, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone returned to India accompanied by the special envoy De Mistura. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]] The two Maròs are currently in the residence of the Italian ambassador. It was a difficult and painful decision, but it appeared necessary to us to guarantee the goodness of our country and the uniform that our military wear with fair pride and to allow to bring the whole issue back to the beehive of a punctual dispute between two sovereign States, avoiding that a systemic opposition could in fact affect not only the bilateral relationship between Italy and India, but also every possible definitive and agreed solution of this dramatic event. We have news from the undersecretary, now deputy minister, De Mistura that at the summit of the BRICS countries, of which India is part, held in recent days in South Africa, began to be considered, at Indian request, the hypothesis of joint measures from the BRICS (sigla that, as you well know, stands to mean Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) towards Italy. Although it must accompany any evaluation of an action that is still in progress, I would like to stress what has been achieved in recent days. We have started a political dialogue, we have identified a path towards a rapid solution, whether negotiated or judicially, resetting the judicial route. Finally, we have defused the Indian press and public opinion to protect our fellow countrymen and 483 companies operating in India, but above all our fellow countrymen: we have received very lively expressions of concern from companies operating in India about the fate of our fellow countrymen. I hope that the next Government will continue to develop the dialogue outlined so far and will soon reap the benefits. It will also be appropriate to verify the enforcement mechanisms of the legislation governing our activities to combat piracy, possibly reviewing the legislation itself to better define in particular the chain of command of operations. This, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen, is the reconstruction of the facts and the logical path that inspired the action of the Government; the path and action that have been fully shared by the then Minister for Foreign Affairs Terzi, as he himself has on several occasions also publicly stated. It is enough to retrace the numerous statements made to the press in this regard, not least his detailed interview with the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" of 22 March, entitled: "No longer risk the death penalty, just the tear, I do not resign, in which, expressly excluding his resignation, he showed that he shared the decision taken by the CISR in the previous hours. With regard to the resignation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to say in this House that I was amazed at both what the Minister has done and what the Minister has not done in connection with his resignation: for what he has done, that is, the way in which he has made known his resignation without any information to the President of the Council or to the President of the Republic, but especially for what he has not done. Mr Terzi took part in the meetings of the CISR, did not express disagreements; he took part in the unanimous conclusions of those meetings. Yesterday morning, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., a meeting was held in my office at Palazzo Chigi, attended by Minister Terzi, Minister Di Paola and, in telephone consultation, Minister Severino and other our collaborators for the finalization of the statements of the Government that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, accompanied by the Minister of Defence, would deliver to the Chamber of Deputies in the afternoon. We discussed this important communication for two hours: neither during, nor at the end, nor after this joint work has the Minister expressed particular discomfort or intention to resign. We all know that if we want to change a decision that is not being taken, especially if we are the first holder of the matter we are dealing with, then we can also say that, dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not share and I am ready to resign. This did not happen. Instead, the resignation was announced publicly this afternoon in a Parliamentary Chamber. This disconcerting manner, combined with the previous statements of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, makes me think that the resignations were intended that I do not know, that I do not even imagine, but different from that of leading to a change in the decision that the Government made. I would like to conclude by once again paying tribute to our two Maroons and to the attitude of great sense of responsibility they have held. I met them at Palazzo Chigi in the presence of their Minister and their admiral, Di Paola, the afternoon before their departure. They've been doing absolutely exemplary behavior. I would like to draw your attention here to a point that concerns Parliament, a point I made myself, which reassured the lawyer who accompanied them and which is the following. Having, on behalf of the Government, secured the two maròs... [[Comments of Senator Alberti Casellati]] that we would exercise every care, every support, not only for their situation but also for that of their families, the Marò Massimiliano Latorre said: President, thank you for that. We trust you and the Minister of Defence. They would then have had a telephone conversation in the afternoon (perhaps it had already happened) with the Head of State. But you have to understand, the Government is resigned, the President of the Republic is near the end of his mandate, everything evolves in Italy and who knows if we can trust these insurances. I spontaneously replied that everything evolves, but a body, the most important of all, Parliament, has just been elected and we all hope that it will last for the five years of natural life provided for in our Constitution. It was spontaneous for me to say: We will certainly report to Parliament and underline the country's commitment to you, so that this commitment is deposited with Parliament to further comfort you and your families. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u14	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u15	Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the reconstruction of the President of the Council seems unsatisfactory, incomplete and contradictory to us. That canvas of relations with India, to which the President-in-Office of the Council referred in the opening of his remarks, was, in the course of the matter, far from consistent, and it is ambiguous, hypocritical, to reconstruct the matter in the light of a consistency that was not there: that canvas was poorly woven, it was probably ill-thought-out and worse executed. This is beyond the judgements on this or that character of the government action. From this point of view, I find the considerations made about Ambassador Terzi or others, obviously opposite, on Admiral Di Paola, unfair and ingenious. No, I believe - and this was the spirit with which we have been preparing for this debate since yesterday - that we must show respect and above all affection for those two Italian soldiers who last Sunday had turned to Italian politics to ask for harmony and composure and instead, on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), raging declarations wreaked, military, diplomatic and political. But let's go back to us. What has led New Dehli, not already to soften his positions, but to believe that he can play a game of strength with respect to a country judged weak and uncertain? Let us forget, Mr President-in-Office, at least in this House, the rhetoric about honour and good repute. Forget it. This conviction was nourished by the spinning of improvised statements with which, at first, Italians came to deny all responsibility. Then we came to compensate the fishing families: a gesture probably noble, but that to the Indian political class and diplomacy appeared as a further admission of guilt. Whereas it was never said loud and tall - on the left they would say without if and without but - that it was not a murder, if anything a preterintentional fact, because the victims had been mistaken for pirates. This should have said and reiterated Italian diplomacy, perhaps before and perhaps more than the fight on the best court of jurisdiction. Then, how naive, how crudely, President Monti, in those requests for help and collaboration in countries like Russia and the United Kingdom, both in evident decline of influence on a country like India. It is a good thing, Mr President-in-Office, that for your part you did not imagine playing the card of Europeanism, of the European Union, whose capacity for political pressure on a country like India is notoriously scarce. Not surprisingly, the Indian Ministry of Foreign Affairs continues to have no department for relations with the European Union and to manage relations with member countries according to the ancient division between Western and Eastern. Which does not justify the trivial statements of the noblewoman Ashton, whose insensitivity to two human lives, those of our maroons, is frankly... I was gonna say a loud word. Better leave the suspension dots. Italy may have been an important partner in the early years of Indian independence, but you have done well, Mr Monti, to reject complaints about economic interests. Italy is not America. Italy could not put into play its special relationship with New Delhi to solve a lawsuit not different from that which, only a few weeks later, would involve the American Navy off Oman and would have been filed without the Indian Government's public singing, at least publicly. Italy is not the United States of America, but it would have had - you mentioned briefly at some point in its reconstruction - an instrument to exert a negotiating pressure of some importance on New Delhi. India is very keen to affirm its role as a country that respects international and responsible obligations in the context of its aspiration to become a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. When you spoke of your meeting with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, I asked myself: why did Italy not intervene with a prompt and strong complaint to the UN General Assembly, where would it have had some weight to call that Assembly to India's refusal to make every effort in the international fight against piracy, moreover, for reasons of internal politics? Italy, with such an action, perhaps would not have found a significant majority in the third world-wide deployment of the General Assembly, but would have created problems in New Delhi and would probably have led that Government to greater openness. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I do not say anything about yesterday: I do not think it is up to this House to try the honour and good repute of an absentee (the Third Ambassador) or to be a typhoid, despite the sympathy he deserves, for Admiral Di Paola. The problem is another one. At yesterday's sitting of Parliament, two speeches were planned: those of the so-called ministers of the sector. This is not the first time that I have told you, President Monti, that the Government exists, there is Parliament and there is a third institution no less important: the Government in Parliament! And the government in Parliament doesn't talk to the ministers in the field, it takes political responsibility. On the other hand, in many decisions, your Government, which perhaps because of me and other colleagues had the limit to travel with the confidence built into it from the start of the measures, has neglected all relations with Parliament in the field of international policy. It seems to me that someone in the House has summoned, perhaps to the detriment of Minister Terzi himself, how the decision taken on Israel and Palestine was drawn up and improvised, after you had heard Parliament four days before, when you were told something else. In order not to go back to the Chamber alone, let me add that the dangerous warning had already emerged a few months ago, when France had decided to intervene against the separatist rebels and terrorists in Mali, and the Italian Parliament, urged by the Government, had gathered the Foreign Commissions and joint defence in which we had expressed our support for concrete support for operations, even without the direct and immediate sending of fighting troops. Then, those parliamentarians who had attended that meeting came to know not in Parliament, nor by the Government in Parliament, that, on the other hand, in the following days the Government had decided not to do anything by claiming that this was the real will of the political forces consulted by it, evidently outside Parliament. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this behaviour which has harmed the institutions makes it very difficult for those two of our fellow citizens to whom I feel obliged to composure and seek agreement, as far as possible. However, there can be no uncritical acceptance of this or that personal ambition. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are now also responsible for the Farnesina. I hope that he will do so less superficially than he did ten days ago when he declared himself available to the presidency of the Senate. In the history of Italy, such a lack of respect for the Senate and the Government is indeed an unprecedented fact. It is not a criticism of the person, but a contribution to the transparency of the institutions. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u16	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when yesterday afternoon, Mr Monti, the Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups met, we welcomed - and I gladly greet you, recalling the words of the President of the Senate, Senator Grasso - your immediate correction of course and your willingness to attend the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate to explain what had happened. I must say with the same frankness that I have not heard any examination of conscience on the part of the Government and I have not listened, despite the attention, to any proposal, presiding over you a Government still in office, which is a service for the health of the two Maroons. It was right, however, not to correct the course regarding the resignation of Minister Terzi. Today's meeting in the Senate and before in the Chamber have as a central fact not the resignation of the Minister, not the maneuvers of outline (of which we read and which must be condemned even serious, if there had been): the management of the diplomatic crisis and the fate of the two maroons remains as the main fact. So, you did very well to keep the point on the subject at the center of today's Senate session of the Republic. They strike - it must be put in the head of any other assessment - the late consciences in free movement in place of the interest of the State. It is to be hoped that these are not consciences which, in order to repent, lean on the skin of the two maroons, because it would be one of the further mischiefs on which another part of the goodness of the State would fail. The facts. I will not chronologically retrace the facts as you have remembered them and that we can read correctly now for days in the daily press. I mention only the incipit, because I find that there is the mother of a series of problems on which the government then had to intervene. In July 2011 the Government, which you did not preside over (the previous one), with a decree contracted a public service, which is one of the few objects of foundation of a state, to private, and was done without endowing us with any conditioning power and without establishing firm rules of engagement. I find that in that decree there is one of the causes, if not the major, of what happened afterwards. And that's the beginning of an unimaginable chain of mistakes you were supposed to talk about in the Senate. The question remains the same: how does the drama to which the two Maròs call us to our attention and responsibility, finally, with an open letter published by the Italian press a few days ago? Because looking at the two Italian soldiers instead of wearing us down on the mistakes made and before even thinking about the announced economic orders by the Indian Government, it remains the most important condition. I always thought that the national credibility and the resolution of the drama of the two rifles of the San Marco regiment belonged to the same knot: the one does not melt without having faced and dissolved the other. Saving economic relations with India cannot affect either the honour of the State or loyalty to two Italian soldiers pending trial. That is why I am going to ask you the questions I hoped you would answer in your report. We need to know where the responsibilities lie: whether they are in a minister, in two ministers, in more ministers or in the government in its collegiality. President Monti, you cannot quote - I quote, I hope - the willingness of the two marshalls to return to India. We need to know where the government's responsibilities are and we need to know in the Supreme Chamber that is that of the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]] We need to know who is leading this delicate phase, because betrayal is the word given, that there has been. You admitted that when you said - I quote - you committed yourself to the return to India undertaken by the Government. Who guides this new phase, if there has been a previously betrayed word? We also need to know the government's opinion on what we have been calling the state's reasoning for 500 years, because even the most realistic ambassadors in the "Princess" writes: "You can't call virtue to betray friends, you can't call virtue to be without mercy." We need to know what causes the government to change its mind twice in a few days. All this, Mr President, apart from the use that must be avoided, the exploitation of the case will lead to a general judgment on the government that you are chairing. This is not the place, and this must not be the occasion, but we cannot confine the amazement to what happened in the dark corner of our consciences and associate Parliament, this new Parliament, with the responsibilities of the government in office, because this Parliament does not have those responsibilities. The fact that there were warnings, however, (a matter already mentioned by my previous colleague) was already clear: it had happened on the case of Palestine, when the mechanism, of course, the chain of command had suffered some interruption, if not a deviation from the original mandate. Let me conclude, Mr President, by pointing out not two alternative ways, but by trying to give an answer, my own, to two issues on which I will gladly listen (if not today, when...) to the views of the government that you chair. I fear it serves, but here there is a prince, without irony but with fairness, of diplomacy not only Italian, I know him personally, in the past I have had the opportunity to cross arms with him and I have full confidence. We must know, however, whether there is a diplomatic-negotial channel parallel to the current one, if there is already no request to know it except in the forms that diplomacy allows us. What we see, however, is that the United Nations has officially limited itself to wishing itself a solution, and wishing itself a solution, if that is the position of the United Nations, is not much. The other thing we have not seen on the move is the European Union. We, unlike Kissinger, Mr President, know the Baroness's telephone number and if the Baroness represents the European Union, we know the telephone number Kissinger did not know. Finally, a suggestion to those who will arrive, but first of all to this House: perhaps we should review the July 2011 rule, so as not to entrust to any government that will come a matter of difficult flexibility, a matter that could put Italy again in a decidedly unfriendly condition. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI, PD, M5S and Misto-SEL and Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u18	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u19	Mr President of the Senate, fellow senators, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am very concerned about today's debate. The defiance of the institutions, the scenery that we witnessed yesterday in the House, the flight from the responsibilities of Minister Terzi, seemed to us the inevitable epilogue of one of the worst pages of recent and past history of our country. From tragedy to farce, we would have to say, after weeks in which the succession of events has seriously compromised relations between two historically friendly countries, such as Italy and India. The international credibility of Italy, already tested in recent years, suffers another blow and the serious diplomatic mistakes made are unfortunately the certification. It's as if we had played a vicious and dramatic game of cards on the skins of the maròs, without this being able to have a way out that would guarantee truth and justice. Unfortunately, Mr President, this loss of credibility of our country, which should play a different role, as in the best ten-year tradition of our foreign policy, which for many years has seen Italy as the protagonist of high mediations, centered on dialogue between peoples and not the driving force of clashes, today involves people in the flesh: the military Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, accused of murder, who deserve a fair trial and not propaganda speculations with all the equipment of unbearable militaristic rhetoric that we have also witnessed in these days, of which the right has been spokesperson. That is why we also want to say and recall in this House the names of the Indian victims of the Saint Antony fishing vessel, of which no one ever remembers: Selestian Valentine and Ajesh Pinky. We do this because we are outraged by the dull words of a mayor of a northern city that feeds the clash of civilizations, confusing justice with revenge and law with retaliation. The military Massimiliano Latorre, the day before yesterday, sent an e-mail to a well-known journalist, calling on the whole of Parliament to stop the divisions and open a phase of collaboration to resolve this tragedy. We of Left Ecology Freedom are a responsible force and we want to activate all our energies in order to reach positive solutions, because we are convinced it is right to give an answer to the families of the Marò prisoners in New Delhi. However, for us responsibilities coincide with truth and respect for agreements and therefore we are obliged to make considerations of merit and also ask some uncomfortable questions. Why has a known fact been underestimated to anyone who chews a minimum of comparative law, that is that in a country with Anglo-Saxon legal culture the word given is central and decisive in a judgment of the courts? Why for days have we been witnessing a disturbing ballet of reassurances about the non-application of the death penalty, which still exists in India, and instead we have never referred to the decision of our 1996 Council that has imposed not to hand over the deed to a country where the death penalty exists? Again, why did you let the situation go down without ever really involving the European Union and the international community, when the Marò case invaded all the media and specialist foreign affairs magazines for months? Why, despite the conclusion in 2012 of the Treaty of Friendship between India and Italy on the transfer of persons recluse, is it not given to know if it is already operational and therefore if it is possible to assert the Italian jurisdiction? And finally, why has it been given credit to a counter-perishment, that of a supposed Stefano engineer, spoiled by incomplete data, built on unreliable statements and probably conditioned by partial political assessments, and perhaps inspired by a miscelated feeling of Western superiority? Maritime piracy has not only been a source of literature for years; it is a major issue arising from the fading of some national states and the increase in trade related to the globalization of the economy. And the same data that recorded in 2012 a decrease of the attacks on the ships on the route to the West of Africa is not a sufficient reason for tranquility. The same Italian companies are, as we know, extremely concerned by the implications that the affair marò can produce in the commercial exchanges, exchanges that between 1991 and 2011 have grown twelve times and that have been determined with a total volume of business of 15 million euros, in particular in the fields of defense and shipbuilding. But we have to ask ourselves about this, we believe without ideological approaches. What is the best way to combat piracy? This seems to us to be the decisive point; Senator Nencini has also mentioned it now. We believe that it is necessary to amend the anti-piracy legislation on which we have expressed many doubts already in the past, also because Decree-Law No 107 of 2011 does not specify which is the chain of command on civil ships with on board military presence; that is, the law does not make clear, if the ship embarks a military team, which are, in case of accident, the measures to be taken and, ultimately, who decides in case of conflict between civilians and military. This lack makes the context so confusing as to allow us to make a fundamental reflection (let's say this): it should be addressed once and for all, in our opinion, the question whether there are other ways to counter the armed anti-piracy approach. There are many shipping companies who express concern for the militarisation of measures to combat piracy which, moreover, risks endangering the same safety of the crews. It would therefore be crucial to explore other modes of deterrent and passive defence that many companies are already applying or developing. Finally (I am beginning to conclude), we think that in order to try to solve the drama of two Italians who risk years of jail in India there is need of a high level international mediation, with the competition of other countries, and not simply the opening of an arbitration. In short, we need politics, the one that has not been, that has disappeared from the diplomatic maps of a minister perhaps more interested in a personal political career than in the resolution of a difficult dispute, in which too many questions remain without adequate answers, which do not allow in any way and no one to be unbalanced a priori in condemnations or absolutions in the absence of a serious judicial investigation. It remains a bitter lesson, which we thought was a Western democracy as ours had assumed and which, of course, is still to be learned: what the South of the world is not a European colony. But that is why we need a foreign policy again. For these reasons, and by virtue of these considerations, we think that the resignation of the Minister, also for the way in which they took place, is resoundingly instrumental, and that it is nevertheless necessary to restore the truth about what happened. We hope, in any case, that this dramatic page will be the last of the unglorious history of a technical government that would have to shine for authority, credibility and knowledge and that, instead, all this has had very little. We thought that we had reached the height of this incompetence with the absurd page of the exodus; we did not imagine that with the affair of the maròs you would be able to do even worse. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL eM5S Groups and Senator Mancuso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u20	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have seen an unupbuilding episode, which I have spoken to my colleagues about. During his speech, speaking of soldiers, he said that the military did not shoot an enemy in the back, let's imagine to a minister who, moreover, decided to leave the scene. We were shocked by your speech, which you have so much and you know so much about: we launch the boats, we get off the ship, we discharge responsibility (Minister Terzi towards the President of the Council and the President of the Council towards Minister Terzi), forgetting that the Government is a collegial body that - like it or not - bears a collective responsibility. What we have seen is that you have given, both inside and outside, an image that is not the real image of our country, which has passed as a country of turn. This does not correspond to the truth. The image of Italy has been seriously weakened, if anything it has increased its credibility, President Monti, as you have often claimed. For us two soldiers can never be equated with two common criminals, moreover if they are accused of conduct carried out within an international official mission and outside the territorial jurisdiction. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Alberti Casellati]] They have been attracted - as she has specified - with the deception, under the management of a commander of the ship that - perhaps - has made the logics of the shipowner prevail more than those of the safety of all its crew. Your diplomatic work has constantly disappeared: it had to be directed, not towards India, but towards the Allied countries, and to demand and obtain a firm call towards the Indian authorities, perhaps even hoping for international arbitration on the issue. The legal management of the matter should not have been left to India. We participate in the Atalanta mission shared by the European Union in an even wider context than the Ocean Shield operations, even coordinated by the UN. Basically, we had to demand guarantees from all these bodies that have not arrived. Today - and you are almost satisfied with the result - we ask India to exclude the death penalty for our military. Well, implicitly this means recognizing Indian jurisdiction; jurisdiction that, even if it wanted to mitigate penalties, should impose, at least, a sentence of seven years imprisonment. In fact, Italy has renounced its legal reasons. This is what happened. We then suffered a second equally serious humiliation: the action of retaliation against our ambassador, who was even denied immunity. Immunity granted to all missions (you have rightly recalled the Vienna Convention). All states except Iran recognize it. Well, India has given up recognizing our diplomatic delegation. In this case, the UN provides for the activation of so-called parallel pipelines. At this point, we could have stopped the Indian ambassador to Italy immediately and in parallel. However, it turned out that we delivered two Italians to a country that had no right to hold back and judge (country that clearly now exults for the international success achieved), military that will be subject to investigations that we call medieval. He has even neglected to evaluate the type and calibre of the bullets, which seems not to belong absolutely to weapons supplied by the Italian Navy, exposing our military to serious risks and causing a great rubble to the dignity of all the Armed Forces and even of our Country. What should Italy do? If he succeeds, he should once again try to handle this whole embarrassing affair for our country, for those who are assisting you. The responsibilities should be separated and a new action that has at least one objective to maintain the integrity of our military should be distinguished from the actions of your clumsy government. The diplomatic relations, I repeat, not with India, but with the international community must be reopened on other grounds. To achieve this, however, there is no need for that pull and drop, that whistle-blower, which we have witnessed, needs a little more determined action. We could also decide to withdraw our military from all anti-piracy operations, since our military are no longer guaranteed; given also the behaviour of India, which is not respecting the customary right and is violating everything, starting with the Conventions on diplomatic delegations, we could decide, this time, to invite the Indian ambassador to leave our country; we could also renounce the command of UNIFIL in Lebanon where we are involved militarily (more than eight hundred Indian soldiers are employed in that theatre); and we could also decide to leave - or threaten to do so - Afghanistan with our military: in doing so, we would get a great saving in spending, even if we know how Afghanistan represents a thorn in our side for the country we are talking about, India. Basically, we should force all international diplomacy to stand side by side - as is right - in order to achieve what we can achieve, for example the arbitration we are talking about so much. But surely we should no longer suffer self-referential shorts nor the populism that is now rampant in India. Today we have read that Indian politicians even ask for the special court to be set up in the State of Kerala because witnesses would be so poor that they had difficulty in reaching the capital, travel problems and even language problems. Let us imagine how the matter will be ride in India. Basically, our military, President-in-Office of the Council, cannot be abandoned. I speak to you as a former Alpine, for which the first rule is never to leave a companion behind. Now there is the escape, we abandon the ship, we disassociate ourselves, we split the responsibilities - as already said - between Monti, Terzi and even Minister Di Paola. In our opinion, the cause of all this - alas - is endemic to the technical government, which itself is inadequate to deal with sensitive political situations such as the one we are talking about. All the Members who have spoken - and we have also followed the debate in the House - are partly disassociating. We can also say that, if there is a technical government, it means that someone has supported it and also voted for it. Therefore, this escape from responsibility seems to be due to the fact that at the last hour everyone wears the charms indoors. Surely we of the League did not participate to start technical governments. Technical governments do not respond to voters, they do not respond to democratic rules and they probably follow other logics that - like that of the case - seem incomprehensible to us. President-in-Office of the Council, we would like to close this experience of technical governments and hope that this will happen quickly. President-in-Office of the Council, as well as my dear professor, the lesson has certainly been sufficient. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u22	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u23	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, my fellow senators, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the seriousness of what has happened calls for non-Byzantine reflections both on the institutional and on the political level. At the institutional level, the decision of Minister Terzi to resign in the Chamber mortally hurts a Government already resigned and in regime for more than ordinary administration, but on this point I will return later. This gesture - in my view - above all humiliates Italy on the day when the Maròs asked us for unity and compactness, showing it divided and inconsistent and in particular exposed to logics that show those who make politics interested in much more than the good of our country, the dignity of its armed forces, the life of its men. There is no patriotism in this decision, nor in any case does it appear the best in the interest of Latorre and Girone, as pointed out also by their family members, who at this moment demand to feel and see all the strength that Italy can deploy to their protection. It is not with resignation that the ship of the government of the country is helped, in objective difficulties and in an institutional moment particularly sensitive to face the storm unleashed by unhappy events. The choice of the former Minister for Foreign Affairs - the last more than a few precedents - is therefore, in any case, wrong and sorry, because he is a man to whom he has looked from all sides for certain competence and undisputed experience. And here we come to the political plan of foreign policy, but perhaps I should say more than domestic policy. Can a man of certain competence and undisputed experience as Giulio Terzi have made this decision on the wave of feeling? Could he not have considered the consequences, not for the Government of which he was a member, but for, for example, the Head of State whom he had been entrusted with? In other words, could he not have considered, a career diplomat, deeply aware of the institutions, to be able to possibly contribute to conditioning with his behavior the eventual and future operation of the Head of State for the days to come? What I want to say is that what is involved in the gesture of the resigning Minister appears, more than a motion of affections and honor and more than an act against a government whose politics is no longer shared, a deliberate gesture of those who lend themselves to a disrespect towards the President of the Republic, accomplished with the aim of making inevitable sudden accelerations of the political phase that our country is experiencing. In this sense, our responsibility is ascribed to the duty to tighten ourselves to Latorre and Girone and their families, overcoming controversy, albeit just, on the dynamics of this affair, and also to make Parliament's voice heard as opposed to theatricalization for personal purposes and even more for political purposes of the drama that Italy is experiencing. Stringing us around Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone means therefore stigmatizing the choice of Minister Terzi, not so much and not only because he has no longer shared - and surprisingly - decisions taken by common accord with the Government, but because in doing so he has weakened the relevance of the values of obedience and attachment to the Homeland and the honor of the Armed Forces by Girone and Latorre testified. In this sense, the political significance of what happened yesterday draws us towards the abjuration of reason: it feeds the image of a policy made up of personalisms and strategies pursued to prevent dialogue and understanding. To break up relations between the institutions, to rush into a permanent electoral campaign, to mortify the will of those who in the institutions have shown to believe, like our riflemen in Marina, are the only effects of the coup d'etat that we saw yesterday in the House and that still overflow from many inappropriate statements. The values in which we believe are instead first and foremost the unity to which Latorre and Girone have called us, and again the sense of the State shown by the wonderful reasons expressed yesterday in the Chamber by Minister Di Paola, to whom he was not spared being made to pass as a commander who puts commercial interests before the life and safety of his men and who, remaining in his place, stands out from the too many Schettino who scourge this time. And above all we believe in the value of Italy, understood not as a summary of patriotic rhetoric, but as only and exclusive reference to the indispensable reasons for which it is worth being together and which should inspire us, in these days, to try good things, rather than waste the opportunity that comes from being a great and serious nation, determined and strong, strengthening therefore and not weakening what governments are called to do on the international scene. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vacciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u25	Mr President, Senators, we have listened carefully to President Monti, without preconceptions or prejudices. We have listened to your explanations and arguments, but we are not satisfied. We want to understand and understand well, in a simple and comprehensive way. In this affair there are interests, rights and responsibilities much more extensive than the odyssey personnel of the two rifles and their family members: interests, rights and responsibilities that go back to the captain of the ship, private shipowners, diplomatic representatives, members of the Italian Government and India. The responsibility lies with NATO, with its program of protection of the merchant ships "Ocean Shield," to which Italy has joined, and also the European Union, with the analogous program "Atalanta" to which Italy has acceded. And finally, let us not forget, there are two deaths and the public opinion of the two nations and of the entire international community that await truth, that truth denied to the Italians, often by their own rulers, with scandalous repetition over the decades. This of our two Navy rifles is a dark, nebulous, confused and certainly unhappy affair. On the substance, it is difficult or better impossible for now to assess. Too many vaguenesses on this matter require us to suspend our judgment of substance. We are not asking you for a favor, transparency is your duty. In this affair it is absurd that public opinion still does not know if on board the same ship there were only the two rifles of the Navy, Latorre and Girone, or if instead the escort was also composed of other men. In that event, we want to know who the commander responsible for this department was and what he did to protect his subordinates. It is also asked to know: what are the regulations on the use of Italian soldiers and professionals (so-called contractors) on private ships within the framework of the already mentioned NATO and EU programs; what are the provisions of engagement delivered to the military on board; what has been the national authority that, consulting with the shipowners of the Lexie, has allowed the reversal of route of the ship as intimato from the Indian authorities, inversion carried out after a few hours from the accident; who has ordered (name and degree of the military authority) to our two rifles of Marina to descend to the ground and to surrender, in fact, to the Indian authorities of the State of Kerala. We expect to know whether the Agreement with India ratified in October 2012 and related to the transfer of convicted persons was also ratified by India. We demand to know why a government in office only for the ordinary administration has decided to make the decision to announce the failure to return to India of our two military. We believe that, for this decision, you should have heard Parliament, not just the CISR. This has not happened and is serious. It is up to you to clarify what has been said so far, while the approximation, the contradiction and the inadequacy of a government that has repeatedly taken the credit of raising the country's prestige and credibility is already evident, and today it plunges it into ridicule. The way in which the matter was handled requires the following reflections. The European Union has not been adequately involved, which is also part of the dispute. You, Mr Monti, appear to be very sensitive to the economic and financial constraints that bind us to Europe, but our Minister has failed to activate a common European front on this issue and it has seemed that he has proceeded in an improvised and confused manner. A Service for Legal Affairs, Diplomatic Disputes and Treaties is still active in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: is it possible to know how it has worked this year, how has it been activated in this matter? Our ambassador, who had guaranteed an electoral permit, was exposed to retaliation by the Indian authorities without adequate protection. This very serious violation of international law does not leave the Italian Government free from responsibility in terms of mutual correctness between nations. The insurance of the exclusion of the death penalty is now advanced as a supposed success of mediation, when it is clear that this risk did not exist. Italy has always been laudably active in advocating the abolition of the death penalty at international level. Why was this issue not put to the fore, immediately, when it would have had much more importance to re-examine the issue of human rights? Today, however, the government lately places India what becomes, at this point, a begging request. Farnesina's wavering conduct has already given rise to the possibility of embarrassing backgrounds connected to AgustaWestland helicopter sales, Finmeccanica group. At this point, we would like to share with you and colleagues the dismay at the resignation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Terti of Sant'Agata, which took place in an irrational way; I am certainly shocked at the substantial futility of the resignation as Minister of an already resigned Government. However, we are more concerned to assess the consequences that these resignations may have on the fate of the two rifles Latorre and Girone, currently in India, where they have recently gone in compliance with the orders received and thus demonstrating a great sense of responsibility, to which we applaud, and also showing a sense of the State which many, on the other hand, lack. It is well known that the return to India of our military, having publicly threatened that it would not happen, was greeted by the Indian authorities as the triumph of their hard line against Italy. Now, these resignations can be read as a confirmation of the effectiveness of this hard line and thus induce India to further intransigent attitudes in this affair. Our sailors would pay for it. Let us remember how you, President-in-Office of the Council, went into politics and spent it on the media during the election campaign; now that you have made the good name of the nation politically go down, what sense of responsibility and modesty do you feel? The responsibility for all this would lie with you and your government. We hope he will be aware of this and draw the necessary conclusions. In conclusion, we reiterate our demand for greater transparency on the whole affair, for sharing future steps with Parliament, it felt that it wanted to take action and to strictly follow the ordinary administration in the performance of its functions. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Galimberti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u26	Senator Schifani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u27	Mr President, allow me first of all, on my own behalf, but also on behalf of the Senators of the Group whom I honour to chair, to send a symbolic but sincere embrace to our military Girone and Latorre and to their families at this difficult time. [[Applause from the PdL, PD, M5S and SCpI Groups.]] I also express my appreciation to all our armed forces, who oversee freedom not only in our country but also abroad, and to our diplomacy; diplomacy of which we are proud and which carries out a continuous, incessant and silent work to protect our interests. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your Government was born in the aftermath of the step backwards of those who had won the 2008 elections; a step backwards of great responsibility in the face of the need for the advent of a President of the Council, a technical government which - it was said - should have protected and safeguarded our international prestige and our accounts. I believe, Mr President, that these two objectives have largely failed. They have failed because - the public accounts speak for themselves - our public debt has increased from 1,900 billion euros to 2,000 billion euros, consumer confidence decreases, unemployment has increased by two points and the tax burden has increased to 44 percent, 1.8 points more than in 2012; not to mention what I will focus on. Mr President, I will not enter into the controversy about the resignation of Minister Terzi. The latter had the courage to express his idea, his position and did so in Parliament. Could he do it somewhere else? He had respect for this Parliament that had given him confidence, so I think that all in all, with its manifestation of will, he wanted to give a sign of respect to this Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Alberti Casellati.]] I will not enter into these polemics, but instead I will speak only of what was the anomaly of a Government that on the one hand had at heart the protection of our international prestige, on the other hand acted - let me be allowed - in a schizophrenic way on the affair of the Maroons. It is a matter linked to a law which, although it is a parliamentary initiative, needs to be improved. There are gaps: it is necessary to understand, when our soldiers, who protect our ships in every part of the world, activate the rules of engagement, who must guard the government of the ship: must it be the owner or the Ministry? There is no doubt that at the moment when our military activates the rules of engagement they must respond to a chain of command not private or private, as happened in the case of the maroons, on which there are remarkable dark points. It has not yet been understood, Mr President-in-Office, why this ship has entered Indian waters, since it was in international waters, it has handed over to the local authorities and handed over our military; we want to understand. Beyond the controversy, we must act as legislators - it is our duty in this House to ask ourselves this question - in order to clarify more clearly, through a change in the law, how responsibilities are actually safeguarded and who, at the time when our military are engaged in rules of counter-crime. At the same time it must be noted, Mr President, that the attitude of the Government on this matter has been - I repeat - schizophrenic. The Government initially assumes a position of apparent responsibility: entrusts to diplomacy the management of the matter, accepts the judicial rules of the Indian Government, although contesting them in the logic of dialectics and correctness, and moves in a logic of orthodoxy, coherence and composure, even if denouncing, in the due places, even international, the anomaly of what was happening. We have moved in the logic of those who have always been our prestige, our coherence and our international reliability. The result of that position was, for example, I would like to remind ourselves that our soldiers were able to spend Christmas holidays in our country. This was a great satisfaction for all of us Italians, for all of us in Parliament, for all of the institutions, because trust was given to our military and to our country. India trusted the word of our Government and entrusted our military, in detention, to its own country to spend the holidays. This was the culmination of a strategy. We welcomed our military without triumphal tones, because we knew that they would still be subject to judicial proceedings and because we wanted to prevent any triumphal reception tones from irritating those judicial authorities that should have tried them and that will prosecute them. The undersigned met only casually those soldiers in Ciampino, because he wanted to avoid, like others, including the President of the Chamber, choral forms of reception in a logic of respect and rigour of the case, which had to be handled with extreme prudence and delicacy. We have all moved in full harmony on this way of working and acting. Then we wondered, and we keep asking ourselves, what was going on. A new permit is issued to allow our military to return to their country to exercise the right to vote. But even this permission is nothing more than the corollary of a position that had taken over our government and our diplomacy, which had moved in a given scenario. Legal exceptions had been made, in a correct manner, on jurisdiction, on the jurisdiction of those who were to carry out that judicial mandate. We moved in a logic of contestation that the jurisdiction should be that of the Indian Government, but always in compliance with the rules. We had gained a trust that is our international heritage, together with reliability, in all parts of the world. Then there's an episode that hit everyone. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe, without consulting the other political forces, unilaterally decide not to return our military, violating a pact signed with the Government and the judiciary of India. All this happens unexpectedly, causing distress and concern in some of us. On the one hand, there has been national pride in many people who have seen pride on the part of our institutions. On the other hand, however, this pride and this whisper were crushed within a few days when, unexpectedly (that's why I say schizophrenically), this government, without consulting the political forces again, decided to return to its steps and ask our valiant soldiers to return to India and submit to the trial. I wonder and I keep asking myself, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, how can such a thing happen? How can government incidents endanger our international credibility? [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Candiani]] A credibility of which, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have recently spoken in this House, I quote, in these terms: 'the credibility that a country earns by its action'. Mr President, I do not believe that your action and that of your Government have contributed to the acquisition of greater credibility for the country. Our country has lost a lot of credibility because of this. But I'm confident of a fact. We will soon recover the credibility that we have lost because of the affair. You know how? Through the continuous and daily commitment of boys and girls - I had the honour of being with them on Christmas Eve - who risk their lives in various parts of the world, such as Afghanistan and Lebanon. They do this because they believe in freedom, they believe in our values, they believe in the State, they believe in our nation. They do this because they are strong men and women, because they belong to a strong country. They will allow us to recover what we have lost, together with the memory of 90 heroes we have lost to bring peace to the world; 90 fallen in various parts of the world (52 only in Afghanistan) that we mourn together with the composure of the pain of their families. [[Applause from the PdL, PD, LN-Aut and SCpI groups.]] This is our strength and this will allow us to recover our credibility, a credibility put at risk but that we will recover, also because I believe the time has come for our country, for the economic difficulties that it goes through, in which politics takes back the government of the country. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] The time has come to return to politics, possibly - at least this is my wish - under the enlightened and wise guidance of our President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano. We must return to a policy that manages to give our country stable, responsible and cohesive leadership, the result of the sacrifice of various political forces and that obeys a vote of confidence not the result of alchemies of senators who enter and leave the Chamber to create something, but of a responsibility that actually sees the courage of the institutions, of parliamentarians, of those who lead them and of political secretaries, so that our country can fulfil a task: to grow, create development and give security and work to our children. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u28	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u29	Mr President, I would like to thank the President of the Council of Ministers for his timely and very detailed information. I will only make a few political points, given the issues relating to the facts. I begin by saying that at such a difficult and dangerous stage for our country we did not feel the lack of a parliamentary debate on this uncertain management of the affair of our Marò, let alone on the resignation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Giulio Terzi. It all comes from the tragic killing of two Indian fishermen, traded for pirates, in international waters and from a regulation on the protection of our commercial ships that today we must judge at least imprudent. Frankly, I do not know whether and how much Minister Terzi has fully evaluated the effects that his sudden resignations have had on the international prestige of a Government of which, until a moment earlier, he had shared every initiative. Nor does it seem to me that he was very concerned about the serenity of the many Italian soldiers still engaged in delicate and risky missions abroad, which we also thank with affection and gratitude today. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-SEL groups and the Orellana and Carraro senators.]] Our soldiers ask the rulers of their country to cooperate with each other, to move together and not to give in to personalisms and propaganda distinctions. I do not believe that President Monti, whose main concern during these eighteen months of government was to restore Italy's international dignity and credibility, deserved so much from his Minister for Foreign Affairs. I very much appreciated the collegial line with which Monti led his Government and also its cooperation with Parliament, which was, very differently from what Senator Compagna said earlier, an assiduous collaboration. But the collegiality that President Monti has impressed on his The government of Minister Terzi, resigning without even informing him, has evidently and blatantly refused. President Napolitano has called the resignation of Terzi irrational, but today we in Parliament have the duty to evaluate them politically: they are an act that has the formal form of resignation, but that with well-founded arguments can be considered an escape from responsibility at a difficult time, that is a serious error of assessment, even, objectively, a low partisan operation. [[Applause from Senator Pinotti.]] Today, Mr Brunetta's speech to the House of Deputies and also the debate here, in the Senate, mark a political maneuver that Terzi has made his instrument. Ambassador Terzi has motivated his resignation with the need to safeguard: The goodness of the country, the armed forces and Italian diplomacy. It seems to me that it has got the exact opposite effect. This morning many media have judged its disconcerting motivations the result of improper political motivations. It certainly does not benefit the Ambassador Terzi the fact that today a very authoritative newspaper, which refers to the center-right, has severely attributed to him the will - I quote - to dump the blame on his colleagues for getting beautiful with the People of Freedom. These assessments of the free press should not be underestimated because those who assume important responsibilities of government have the duty not to put themselves in situations that can be so severely interpreted and judged. Third parties should never have forgotten that they had been called to such a high office only and exclusively because they came from the diplomatic career, which has always been so dense with servants of the state of the highest level and never politicians. Italian diplomats know well that in international relations there is a need for good and discreet diplomacy and not for theatrical gestures of nobility. Putting together the sequence of events that marked the story on which President Monti reported so in detail earlier, we have to record a serious chain of errors, which began with the killing of two unarmed fishermen, continued with an unjustified abandonment of international waters by the oil tanker "Enrica Lexie" and reached its acme when we failed to hold to the word given to India by our country. This was a wrong decision. The interest of Italy and - I emphasize this - especially that of Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone should have suggested to insist on our good right to see them judged on the basis of a rigorous application of the law of the sea and international law, also cultivating our traditional good relations with India. Unfortunately, the pacta sunt servanda principle, which is the basis of our international credibility, has not been respected. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is a fundamental consideration that we must honestly derive from this chain of errors. The crisis of our country - I think you know well - is more serious than what the numbers say, because it is not only an economic, financial, social, industrial crisis and the political system, it is also a crisis of the State, of all its articulations, of many of its operating structures and of its ruling class. From here must start the reconstruction work that awaits us. It is for this reason that we have all been elected to Parliament: we have been elected to give back to the Italian State the authority and dignity without which the nations are destined to disband. [[Applause from the PD and SCP Groups]] I would add a comment on a specific national vice, which has affected this issue. The law n. 130 of 2011, already widely cited, has governed the system of defense of our commercial ship from piracy that haunts the known routes of the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean. That law provided for the presence on board our ships of private armed guards or military personnel. For its operation, however, two implementing decrees were needed: one for the use of the military and another for the use of civil guards. Unfortunately, the first was issued, the second was signed but was not issued, with the result that our commercial ship does not have the choice between the use of private armed guards or military personnel. This I consider to be serious because the risks for our country of a direct exposure of our Armed Forces in these situations are greater. Too many times, as Senator De Cristofaro pointed out in other terms but very punctually a moment ago about the rules of engagement, even with his Government, President Monti, to appropriate and necessary legislative measures, the timely enactment of the consequent implementing decrees has not followed, without which, the case we are talking about teaches it, every law can lose its effectiveness. The irrational resignation without any political-diplomatic prudence of Minister Terzi, together with an objective analysis of the whole story make it clear that Italy urgently needs a Government. It needs a political government able to address the most urgent issues that are pressing on us, a government that shows the international community that our country is democratically coming out of the very serious crisis that has gripped it for too long. The results of an electoral law that all of us in this House today reject without distinction ensure that the responsibility for creating or preventing the birth of a new government falls entirely on the shoulders of us senators. [[Applause from the PD, Misto-SEL, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u30	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u33	BERTUZZI (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak at the end of the sitting to express the solidarity of the Democratic Party Group with Patrizia Moretti, the mayor and the city of Ferrara. [[General applause. The Assembly and the members of the Government stand.]] I believe that the spontaneous applause of all the senators of the House and of the Government, who have stood up, has wished to express the shared feeling that we are experiencing on this day, in which we continue to keep a wound open in a city that wants to pacify itself. The choice to carry out the demonstration promoted by the COISP union, of solidarity with colleagues condemned by justice for the crime that they committed right under the windows of the office in which the mother works, I do not think can find words capable of expressing the pain of every mother, of every parent in this Chamber, of every man and woman of state. I therefore believe that the words expressed by Patrizia summarize our feelings: there are no words, he said, in front of the protesters. To this I add also the intervention of the mayor, who approached the protesters and was practically removed by the secretary of that union. I believe that there must also be a sign of solidarity from this House, at a time when we are all trying hard to rebuild that direct relationship of defence of justice and, above all, of closeness to our citizens. I believe that it is very important that solidarity and closeness to this mother, to the administrators of Ferrara and to the whole city also emerge from this House. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u36	BONFRISCO (PdL). Mr President, I would like to join, on behalf of the People of Freedom Group, the words of particular closeness expressed by Senator Bertuzzi to the family of the young Aldrovandi and to recall how our DNA is written in the civilization of the institutions. In this case, the institutions or representatives, perhaps even trade unions, of the men and women who work for the institutions should show greater respect. It has already happened before that this union, even with regard to the institution of Parliament, launched its invectives and its very serious offenses. I think that in this case the limit has really been exceeded and I hope, Mr President, that you will be aware of this and that you will also have to be stigmatised in general but, in particular, of those who, with the excuse of representing workers, really exceed the limit of respect for the institutions themselves. [[Applause from Senator Manconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u37	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-6.ana.u38	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, April 2, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.34.
