ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:01 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u2	[[He stands up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the age calls me to preside over the event that inaugurates the Senate's activity in the 17th Republican legislature. This gives me an opportunity to wish the new elected people good work - there are so many of you - and a cordial greeting to my fellow Members in this House. It also gives me the opportunity to interpret, sure that I have the unanimous consent, a deferent thought to the President of the Republic, who with so much wisdom and with so much sense of the institutions and the State guides our country in one of the most difficult moments of our Republic. [[General applause]] The electoral consultation has profoundly innovated the parliamentary representations, as is evident, and has brought out significant differences. It will be up to Parliament to compose or make them compatible at the service of a country that is experiencing a difficult and complex season. In the search for a useful synthesis for Italy, we will certainly support the constant reference to the Republican Constitution, together with the positive declination of the parliamentary regulations, the powers and duties that the republican order assigns to us. It is quite clear that a static opposition of the different cultural, ethical and political interpretations of the present moment would lead to institutional paralysis, with dramatic consequences on the government of the great social and economic problems that grip our country. I therefore believe that an honest and rigorous dialogue, which is then the essence of democracy, and the assumption of a common responsibility in solving the problems of the country can transform, in this difficult situation, the legitimate oppositions into creative and regenerating energies of the political, civil and institutional life of our country. The quality of the service that we are called to render to the country in democracy, the values of social cohesion and national unity, as well as the feeling of solidarity and justice are the main conditions for overcoming the great challenges facing us. As representatives of a great people, I am sure that we will be able to support the requests for renewal that come from Italian society. We once lived, and so it appeared to me at the beginning of the Constitutional Assembly of which I was a member, which is proposed as a season of reconstruction of great collective values, of relaunching development for the new generations, of commitment to a Europe not only strong, but just. When I say loud and just, I mean a Europe that is open to the demands of rigour, but also to the demands and needs of development, and above all that it wants to continue on a path of unity, both politically and institutionally. And since this is the first session of the Senate of the Italian Republic in the new legislature, and it is a session that follows by a few hours the elevation to the Papal Soglio of Pope Francis, I am sure to interpret the thought of all of you by addressing to him our respectful and fervent wish for a fruitful pontificate. [[The Assembly stands. Live, prolonged applause.]] With these sentiments I renew to all of you, to all of us, a wish for a good, fervent and intense commitment to work in this Senate Hall of the Republic. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u3	I would like to say that, on yesterday's day, Senator Giovanna Mangili sent the Presidency a communication in which she stated that she wanted to resign her office as a Member of Parliament for personal reasons. In accordance with practice, resignations will be brought to the attention of the Conference of Leaders with a view to the subsequent timetable for the vote of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u4	The next item is the Constitution of the Provisional Bureau. Pursuant to Rule 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, I invite the Senators Baptist, Spilabotte, Puglia, Verducci, Vacciano and Crimes, who appear to be the youngest - blessed to them - senators present in the Chamber, to take their place at the bench of the Presidency in order to exercise the functions of Provisional Secretaries. (The Senators Provisional Secretaries take their seats at the bench of the Presidency).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the communication of the options.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u6	I communicate that the Senators Barani, Berlusconi, Casini, Ichino, Marino and Tremonti, proclaimed elected for the Senate in several Regions, have indicated their respective options: the Senator Barani Lucio, elected for the list "Il Popolo della Libertà" in the Lombardy and Campania Regions, has declared to opt for the Lombardy Region; the Senator Berlusconi Silvio, elected for the list "Il Popolo della Libertà" in the Piedmont, Lombardy, Veneto, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Liguria, Emilia-Romagna, Tuscany, Umbria, Marche, Lazio, Abruzzo, Molise, Campania, Puglia, Basilicata, Calabria, Sicily and Sardinia regions, has declared to opt for the Region of Molise; the Senator Casini Pier Ferdinando, elected for the Lombardy Region for the list "Lombardy" in the Lombardy and "Lombardy" the list "Con Monti" for Italy, the Region has declared "Italy for Italy" in the Campania and "Basilicata."
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u7	We take note, therefore, of the options that have been communicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u8	The next item is the Constitution of the Provisional Council for the Verification of Powers and Proclamation of Senators. The Junta has the task of carrying out the investigations relating to the proclamation to senator of the candidates who take over the opting for other circumscriptions. Pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, the Provisional Board is constituted by the senators members of the Junta of the Senate elections of the Republic of the previous legislature that are present at the session, in number not less than seven. Therefore, I invite Senators Augello, Bonfrisco, Casson, Divina, Fazzone and Malan to meet immediately in the adjacent Pannini Room to proceed with the investigations concerning the proclamation to senator of candidates who take over the optents for other districts. Since the number of senators who are members of the Junta of the elections of the previous parliamentary term present at the sitting is less than seven, the integration of the college will be carried out by drawing lots. (The Presidency proceeded with the draw. It is drawn by lot the name of Senator Fucksia). Senator Fucksia is called to meet with the other members of the election committee. As the interim committee is integrated, I ask the Council itself to carry out its duties, and therefore I suspend the sitting, which will resume as soon as such work is completed. (The sitting was suspended at 11.17 a.m. and resumed at 11.41 a.m.) The session is resumed. I urge the senators to take their seats again. I inform you that the Interim Board for the Verification of Credentials has completed its work. I therefore call on the interim Senator Secretary to read the candidates who are first of the non-elected in the vacant seats.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u9	I inform you that the provisional Junta for the verification of powers has announced that it has taken note of the declarations of option received and, for the substitutions to which it is necessary to provide in the seats rendered as a result vacant, pursuant to article 19 of the electoral law for the Senate, found that in the Regions the following candidates are first of the non-elected: in the Region of Abruzzo, for the list, the People of Liberty, Federica Chiavaroli, in place of Senator Silvio Berlusconi; in the Region Basilicata, for the list, the People of Liberty, Guido Walter Cesare Viceconte, in place of Senator Silvio Berlusconi; in place of Senator Silvio Berlusconi; in the Campania Region, for the list, the People of Liberty, in the Region of Vince Franco Fasano, in place of the Region of the Liberty; in place of Senvio Berlusconi; in the Region Campania, for the list, for the Liberty, in the list, in the list, in the Region of the Region of the Region of the Region of the Liberty, in place of the Region of the Liberty, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Liberia, the Republic, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Italy, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Italy, the Republic of Italy, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Italy, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Italy, the Republic of the Republic of Italy, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Italy, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Italy, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u10	I acknowledge the Junta of these communications and therefore proclaim senators the candidates Federica Chiavaroli, in the Abruzzo Region; Guido Walter Cesare Viceconte and Salvatore Tito Di Maggio, in the Basilicata Region; Domenico Scilipoti, in the Calabria Region; Vincenzo Fasano and Franco Cardiello, in the Campania Region; Laura Bianconi, in the Emilia-Romagna Region; Bernabò Bocca, in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region; Francesco Aracri and Daniela Valentini, in the Lazio Region; Augusto Minzolini, in the Liguria Region; Sante Zuffada, in the Lombardia Region; Remigio Ceroni, in the Marche Region; Maria Rizzotti and Michelino Davico, in the Piedmont Region; Francesco Bruni, in the Puglia Region; Emilio Floris, in the Sardinia Region; Marcello Gualdani, in the Sicily Region; Riccardo Giuseppe Bazzoni and Stefania Giannini, in the Tuscany Region; Luciano Rossi, in the Umbria Region; Franco Conte, in the Veneto Region. I would warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints to be lodged will begin today with regard to the new proclamations.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u11	The next item is the vote on the election of the President. In accordance with Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the election of the President of the Senate will take place by secret ballot. I recall that in this ballot for election an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required, i.e. 160 votes. In order to ensure the smoothest conduct of voting operations, as was the case with the election of the President in the last two legislatures, a cabin was set up in front of the Presidency bench. My fellow senators, immediately before entering the cabin, will receive a card from the parliamentary assistants which, after the vote, will deposit in the appropriate urn at the exit of the cabin itself. Before we proceed to the vote for the election of the President of the Senate, I warn you that, in order to prevent any possible misunderstanding - as they have already occurred at the time - or erroneous indication, the lists of colleagues who have the same surname, with the indication of their personal names, are available to the senators in the Chamber. I declare the vote open by secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the senators' appeal in alphabetical order. (The Senator Secretary Spilabotte and, later, the Senator Secretary Crimes make the appeal). Senators take part in the vote: Aiello, Airola, Albano, Alberti Casellati, Albertini, Alicata, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Aracri, Arrigoni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bernini, Bertuzzi, Bianco, Bignami, Bibbinella, Bitonci, Blundo, Bocca, Bocca, Bocca, Campanello, Esandiano, Cantini, Cervacchione, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Carinali, Carraro, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinaio, Cantini, Cantini, Cavelli, Cavelli, Chiavalli, Cavoli, Cavariello, Carinali, Carraro, Casini, Casano, Castondi [[In the course of the vote, the President called on the House to reduce the buzz. Applause from some of the senators elected on the lists "Movement 5 Stars Cricket".]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and I am in favour of the provisional Bureau taking the ballots in public. I invite two secretary senators to bring the urn to the bench of the Presidency. (Interim Secretary Senators proceed to the ballot box. The interim president shall read the ballot papers passed to him by the secretary-general and shall forward them to the interim secretary senators who shall take note of the votes cast). I invite the Senators Provisional Secretaries to proceed with the counting of votes. (Interim Secretary Senators shall count the votes.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u12	I declare the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of the President of the Senate: [[Senators present 313 Senators voting 313 Absolute majority of members of the Senate 160]] Senators got votes: [[Orellana 52 Sibilia 4 Mussolini 3 Comrade 2 Colombo 1 Scilipoti 1 Scheda bianca 246 Scheda nulle 4]] Since no senator has obtained an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Senate, a second secret ballot must be taken in accordance with Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, which will take place this afternoon at 4 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 13.46 p.m. and resumed at 16.05 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, let us resume our work. I would remind my fellow Members that, under Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, we must proceed to the second secret ballot for the election of the President of the Senate. This vote also requires an absolute majority of the members of this House, i.e. 160 votes. As was the case this morning, my fellow senators, immediately before entering the cabin, will receive a card from the parliamentary assistants which, after the vote, will deposit in the appropriate urn at the exit of the cabin itself. I declare the vote open by secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the senators' appeal in alphabetical order. VACCIANO, interim secretary, makes the appeal. Senators take part in the vote: Aiello, Airola, Albano, Alberti Casellati, Albertini, Alicata, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Aracri, Arrigoni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bonfrisco, Borioli, Bottici, Broglia, Bruni, Bubbico, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caleo, Caliendo, Campanella, Candianio, Cantini, Cervacchione, Cappellatti, Cardiello, Carinali, Carraro, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinaio, Cantini, Cantini, Cavelli, Cavelli, Chiavalli, Cavoli, Cavariello [[In the course of the vote, the President called on the House to reduce the bustle and to leave the Chamber free in order to allow voting to take place.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and I am in favour of the provisional Bureau taking the ballots in public. I invite two secretary senators to bring the urn to the bench of the Presidency. (Interim Secretary Senators proceed to the ballot box. The interim president shall read the ballot papers passed to him by the secretary-general and shall forward them to the interim secretary senators who shall take note of the votes cast). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senators Provisional Secretaries to proceed with the counting of votes. (Interim Secretary Senators shall count the votes.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u14	I declare the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of the President of the Senate: [[Senators present 311 Senators voting 311 Absolute majority of members of the Senate 160]] Senators got votes: [[Orellana 52 Sibilia 12 Marino Ignazio 8 Esposito Giuseppe 5 Casson 3 Scilipoti 2 Mussolini 1 Casini 1 Gentile 1 White cards 223 Nulle cards 3]] Since no senator has obtained an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Senate, pursuant to Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, it will be necessary to proceed tomorrow, Saturday 16 March, at 11 a.m., to a third vote in which the absolute majority of the votes of those present will be sufficient, compute among the votes also the blank ballots.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u15	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 14 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, within three days of the first sitting, each senator is required to indicate to the Presidency of the Senate the Group of which he intends to be a member.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u16	I remember that, in accordance with the practice of the Senate, the minutes of every afternoon, afternoon or night session will be read and approved in the next session, respectively, in the afternoon, afternoon or night. Not making any comments, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u17	Following the dissolution of the Chambers, I inform you that the documents and documents set out in Annex B to today's Minutes have been received by the Presidency. I also inform you that questions have been received by the Presidency with a request for a written reply, which have always been published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u18	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-1.ana.u19	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Saturday 16 March, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 6 p.m.
