ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Alberti CASELLATI, Secretary, gave a reading of the minutes of the afternoon sitting on 3 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,02 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I have received a letter from the President of the Republic, Giorgio Napolitano, of whom I read: 'Mr President, I have the honour to convey to you the message on the prison issue, which I send to the Chambers using the option conferred on me by the second paragraph of Article 87 of the Constitution. With heartfelt cordiality. Signed Giorgio Napolitano. I am now reading the message of the President of the Republic, countersigned by the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Enrico Letta: "Honourable Members, during my term of office as President on 10 May 2006 and concluded with the re-election on 20 April 2013, I have taken many opportunities to address myself directly to Parliament in order to draw its attention to general issues relating to the state of the country and the Republican institutions, to the historical and ideal profile of the nation. I remember, above all, the speeches before the Chambers gathered for the 60th anniversary of the Constitution and for the 150th anniversary of the Unity of Italy. And I could also mention other, less solemn, occasions on which I addressed Parliament. I did not, however, do so by using the form of the message that the Constitution gives the President the power to do so. And this is explained by the consideration, already present in doctrine, of the unhappy experience of formal "messages" sent to Parliament by the President of the Republic without following them, witnessing their effectiveness, debates and initiatives, including legislative, of adequate and incisive commitment. If I have resolved to turn now to the option referred to in the second paragraph of Article 87 of the Charter, it is to put to you with the greatest determination and concreteness a burning issue, to be dealt with in a very short time in its specific terms and in its most overall value. I am talking about the dramatic issue of imprisonment and I am referring to the fact that the European Court of Human Rights is of exceptional importance. The latter, with the judgment - approved on 8 January 2013 in accordance with the procedure of the pilot judgment - (Torreggiani and six other applicants against Italy), has established, in the cases examined, the violation of art. Article 3 of the European Convention which, under the heading 'prohibition of torture', prohibits punishment and inhuman or degrading treatment due to the situation of prison overcrowding in which the applicants have been found. The Court affirmed, in particular, that "the infringement of the applicants' right to benefit from appropriate prison conditions is not the result of isolated incidents, but originates from a systemic problem resulting from a chronic malfunction of the Italian penitentiary system, which has affected and may still affect many people in the future" and that "the situation found in the present case constitutes a practice incompatible with the Convention." As regards the remedies to the "structural and systemic character of prison overcrowding" in Italy, the Court recalled the Council of Europe's recommendation "to use as much as possible alternative measures to detention and to redirect their criminal policy towards the slightest recourse to imprisonment, with the aim, inter alia, of resolving the problem of the growth of the prison population." With regard to the application of the Convention, the Court recalled that 'preventive' and 'compensative' remedies must be considered complementary in terms of prison conditions and must therefore be prepared jointly. Without prejudice to the fact that the best possible remedy is the rapid cessation of the violation of the right not to undergo inhuman and degrading treatment. The same decision, adopted unanimously by the Court of Strasbourg, set the time limit of one year for Italy to comply with the judgment and decided to suspend, on the slope of that period, the proceedings relating to the "several hundred appeals against Italy"; appeals which, in the absence of effective, substantial change in the prison situation, appear to be intended for safe acceptance in view of the nature of a pilot judgment. The annual period shall run from the date on which the judgment became final, i.e. from 28 May 2013, when the request for referral to the Grand Chamber of the Court was rejected, submitted by Italy in order to obtain a review of the judgment. Therefore, the period granted by the Court to the Italian State will expire on 28 May 2014. It is worth remembering that the judgment of January last follows the ruling by which four years ago the European Court itself had already judged the prison conditions of our country incompatible with art. 3 of the Convention (Sulejmanovic v. Italy, 16 July 2009), but did not consider setting a time limit for the introduction of appropriate internal remedies. Therefore, I also had to point out - when the recent "Torreggirni" judgment was delivered - how the decision represents "a mortifying confirmation of the continuing inability of our State to guarantee the elementary rights of the inmates pending trial and execution of punishment and at the same time a pressing appeal from the Court to take an effective way to overcome this unjust state of affairs." The Court ruled as follows: 46 of the European Convention states, in fact, that the acceding States "will undertake to comply with the final judgments of the Court on disputes in which they are parties." This commitment, according to the constant interpretation of the Constitutional Court (from judgments n. 348 and 349 of 2007), falls within the scope of art. 117 of the Constitution, according to which the legislative power is exercised by the State "in compliance with the Constitution, as well as the constraints arising from Community law and international obligations." In particular, the Constitutional Court has recently ruled that, in the case of judgments of the European Court of Human Rights which establish the violation by a State of the rules of the Convention, "an obligation is made for the powers of the State, each with strict respect for its powers, to ensure that the harmful regulatory effects of the Convention cease." The termination of the harmful effects is, first of all, the termination of the violation of the law and, only in a subsidiary way, the remedying of the consequences of the violation that has already occurred. Hence the urgent duty to put an end to the prison overcrowding that the Court of Strasbourg has observed, more than to bring an internal appeal capable of offering a refreshment for the conditions of overcrowding already suffered by the prisoner. This last remedy, similar to that introduced by Law No 89 of 24 March 2001 for the repair in cases of violation of the right to the reasonable duration of the trial, would allow cases of violation of art. Article 3 of the Convention, by limiting itself to granting the person concerned a fair financial satisfaction which is unfit to protect the human right of the prisoner as well as being unreasonablely expensive for public finances. From a different perspective, the seriousness of the problem was finally denounced by the Court of Auditors, which, when it came to monitoring the management of the Ministry of Justice in 2012, decided on the results of the survey conducted on "the assistance and re-education of prisoners." It has pointed out that prison overcrowding - together with the scarcity of available resources - has a very negative impact on the possibility of ensuring effective individualised pathways aimed at the social reintegration of prisoners. This frustrates the constitutional principle of the re-educational purpose of the sentence, given the abyss that separates a part - moreover of intolerable breadth - of the prison reality of today by the principles dictated by art. 27 of the Constitution. The reference to the principles laid down by art. 27 and art. 117 of our fundamental Charter defines as constitutional the duty of all the powers of the State to end the situation of prison overcrowding within the time limit set by the European Court, requiring interventions that lead in any case to compliance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. The infringement of that duty entails, inter alia, substantial costs arising from the Italian State's convictions for the payment of the fair compensation provided for by art. 41 of the Convention: convictions that are expected to be numerous, in relation to the large number of appeals now suspended and to those that may be proposed in Strasbourg. But Italy comes, above all, to place itself in a condition that I have already defined humiliating at international level for the many violations of that prohibition of inhuman and degrading treatment of prisoners that the European Convention places alongside the same right to life. And this violation of human rights is to be added, in its extreme gravity, to those, also numerous, concerning the unreasonable duration of the trials. But the inertia in the face of the duty arising from the above-mentioned pilot judgment of the Court of Strasbourg could have other negative effects than those already mentioned. Precisely because of the above-mentioned constitutional profiles, some surveillance tribunals recently raised the question of the constitutional legitimacy of Article 147 of the Criminal Code (the rule establishing the cases of optional postponement of the execution of the sentence), for the part where it does not provide that the postponement of the prison sentence may be ordered even in the event of a foreseeable conduct of the sentence (in relation to the situation of the individual prison) under conditions contrary to the sense of humanity. The possible acceptance of the matter by the Constitutional Court would have significant effects on the enforcement of final sentences to prison sentences. I therefore put to the attention of Parliament the imperative need to put an end, without delay, to a state of affairs which makes us all responsible for the violations brought before Italy by the Court of Strasbourg: they constitute, we cannot ignore, an unacceptable departure from the principles and the order on which the European integration on which our country has linked its destinies is based. But it must be added that the pressing need to profoundly change the condition of prisons in Italy is not only a legal and political imperative, but at the same time a moral imperative. The institutions and our public opinion cannot and must not slip into insensitivity and indifference, living together - without commitment and being able to change it - with a reality of civil degradation and human suffering such as the one that tens of thousands of men and women in prisons suffer. The principle that I have just described as "constitutional duty," can only draw strength from a dramatic human and moral motivation inspired also by fundamental Christian principles. As you know, I have already pointed out on several occasions the intolerable situation of prison overcrowding. In 2011, on the occasion of a conference held in the Senate, I had emphasized that the prison reality represents "a nagging emergency, from unpredictable and to the limit ungovernable relapses, that must be addressed without neglecting the remedies already proposed and in part put in place, but still examining with the utmost attention every other possible intervention and not excluding prejudiceally any hypothesis that can, become necessary." However, from the latest data from the Department of Penitentiary Administration (DAP) of the Ministry of Justice - updated to 30 September 2013 - it appears that the number of persons detained is equal to 64,758, while the "regulatory capacity" is 47,615. According to statistical data on the percentage of prisoners in the total population of the different countries, published by the Council of Europe, in 2011 there were 110.7 prisoners per 100,000 inhabitants in Italy. In comparison with other European countries, this figure is substantially equal to that of Greece and France (110.3 and 111.3) and is exceeded by England and Spain (both above 150). Moreover, Italy - in the same year 2011 - was positioned, among the countries of the European Union, at the highest levels in the percentage index between prisoners present and places available in the prison institutions (i.e. the index of "overcrowded prison"), with a percentage equal to 147%. Only Greece surpassed us with 151.7%. For 2012 the data of the Council of Europe are not yet available; from a search for an independent organization (International Center for Prison Studies), it is confirmed the intolerable level of congestion of the Italian prison system that, despite a percentage reduction compared to the previous year, has gained the - not commendable - primacy of overcrowding among the States of the European Union, with the percentage of 140.1%, while Greece followed us with an index equal to 136.5%. And I come to the remedies proposed or already in place. In order to resolve the issue of overcrowding, different paths can be assumed, to be taken together. (a) REDUCING THE COMPLEXIVE NUMBER OF DETENENTS, INVOLVING THE STRUCTURE OF INNOVATIONS WHICH: 1) the introduction of probation mechanisms. In this regard, the bill delegates approved by the Chamber and now before the Senate, provides, for certain crimes and in case of absence of social danger, the possibility for the judge to apply directly the "test" as the main penalty. In this way the sentenced person will avoid entry into prison, immediately being assigned to a reintegration path; 2) the prediction of limited penalties of personal freedom, but "not prisons." Also on this profile affects the bill now quoted, which intends to introduce the penalty - which can be imposed directly by the judge with the sentence of conviction - of the "conclusion at home"; 3) the reduction of the enforcement area of detention in prison. In this regard, DAP figures show that, out of the total of prisoners, there are about 19% of those "waiting for the first trial"; those sentenced in the first and second instance also about 19%; the remaining 62% are "definative" i.e. achieved by an irrevocable conviction. With a view to reducing the scope of the prison custody application, Law No. 94 of 2013, of conversion of Decree-Law No. 78 of 2013, which amended Article 280 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, has already intervened, raising from four to five years of imprisonment the limit of punishment that can justify the application of custody in prison; 4) the increase of the effort aimed at ensuring that foreign prisoners can atone for the punishment imposed in Italy in their countries of origin. According to DAP data, the proportion of foreign nationals in total prisoners is about 35%. Minister Chancellors, speaking recently in the Chamber of Deputies, agreed on the need to promote and implement specific agreements with countries of origin of foreign prisoners (Italy has acceded to the European Convention on the transfer of sentenced persons and has already concluded nine bilateral agreements in this regard). You have, however, reported on the limited (unfortunately) concrete results achieved so far. During 2012, only 131 foreign prisoners were transferred to their countries (while in the first six months of 2013 the number is 82 transfers). This, according to the Minister, depends, in the main, on the complexity of the procedures for the approval of convictions issued in Italy by the foreign authorities. The Minister has undertaken to review the content of the agreements in order to speed up and facilitate transfers and to conclude new agreements with the countries (mainly the Maghreb area) from which most foreign prisoners come. Among the critical factors of the mechanism for the transfer of foreign prisoners, there is also the difficulty, from the legal point of view, to dispose of such a measure against foreigners not yet definitively condemned, which represent about 45% of the total number of foreign prisoners; 5) the mitigation of the effects of the relapse as a pre-condition for the admission of those sentenced to alternative measures to prison detention; in this sense a first step was taken following the approval of the aforementioned Law No 94 of 2013, which also introduced amendments to the institute of early release. They make it possible to deduct from the penalty the periods of "good conduct" relating to the time spent in "precautionary custody," thereby increasing the possibilities of access to prison benefits; 6) Finally, an incisive decriminalization of the offences, for which the provision of a sanction other than the criminal one can have an effectiveness of general prevention not less. (b) HELPING THE COMPLEXIVE CAPIENCE OF THE PENITENTIAL INSTITUTIONS. In this light, the already recalled (and converted into law) Decree-Law No. 78 of 2013, which intended to give a new impetus to the "Piano Carceri" (whose interventions should be concluded, predictably, by the end of 2015). The Minister of Justice, Chancellors, has declared, intervening to the Chamber, that "by the month of May 2014 will be available another 4 thousand new detention places while to the completion of the Prison Plan the new places will be approximately 10 thousand". In a subsequent statement, the Minister, confirming that at the completion of the Prison Plan the total capacity will increase by 10,000 units, has specified that "by the end of the current year 2,500 new detention places will be available" and that "it is in plan the recovery of buildings today destined to psychiatric judicial hospital and the reopening of detention spaces in the island of Pianosa." But, in conclusion, the assumed increase in prison receptiveness - certainly appreciable - appears, in relation to the "tempistics" foreseen for the overall increase, insufficient in relation to the objective of complying with the judgment of the Court of Strasbourg in a timely and complete manner. All the above-mentioned interventions - of course acceptable and of which I think the rapid definition is desirable - appear partial, as they would probably affect the future and would not allow us to reach the target set by the European Court in due time. I therefore consider it necessary to intervene immediately (the deadline set by the "Torreggiani" judgment will expire, as already pointed out, on 28 May 2014) with the use of "extraordinary remedies." C) CONSIDERING THE NEED FOR EXTRAORDINARY REMEDIES The first measure to which I wish to draw Parliament's attention is indult, which - not by affecting the crime, but by involving only the extinction of part of the prison sentence - can apply to an extended area of criminal cases (except for some particularly hateful crimes). I believe it is necessary that - in order to avoid the danger of a significant percentage of the crime being committed by convicted persons released for indult, as is apparent from Law No 241 of 2006 - the measure of clemency is accompanied by appropriate measures, especially administrative ones, aimed at the effective reintegration of the released persons, which should be actually accompanied in the process of re-socialization. To the provision of indult, an amnesty could be added. I note that from 1953 to 1990 thirteen measures were taken to grant amnesty (only or together with indult). On average, therefore, for almost forty years amnesties were launched at a rate of less than three years. After the last act of amnesty (d.P.R. No 75 of 1990) - dating from twenty-three years ago - only a law of clemency, relating only to the indult, was passed by Parliament (Law No 241 of 2006). The reasons for the absence of amnesty measures after 1990 and the intervention, sixteen years after that date, of the only indult referred to in Law No 241 of 2006, are to be identified, as well as in the constitutional amendment which provided for a reinforced quorum for the laws of clemency (majority of two thirds of the members of each Chamber), also in an "unlikeliness to the acts of clemency" spread in public opinion; hostility to which numerous measures have been added, even in recent years, which have penalized - or punished more rigorously - conducted whose real offensiveness has instead been questioned by the criminal doctrine (or for which the effectiveness of the threat of a criminal penalty has been questioned). I believe that now, in the face of precise constitutional obligations and the imperative - moral and legal - of ensuring a "civil state of government of the prison reality," it is time to reconsider the concerns regarding the adoption of acts of general clemency. With regard to the amnesty's scope, without prejudice to the need to prevent it from affecting crimes of major seriousness and social alarm (just think of the crimes of violence against women), I do not think that the President of the Republic should - or may - indicate the maximum penalty limits or individual cases excluded. The "perimeter" of the law of clemency is in fact one of the exclusive competences of Parliament and of those who may take the initiative of a proposal of law in this matter. The opportunity to adopt amnesty and indult together (as has historically always been the case up to Law No 241 of 2006, the only concession of the indult) derives from the different characteristics of the two instruments of clemency. The indult, unlike the amnesty, imposes to celebrate the trial in any case to ascertain the guilt or not of the accused and, if necessary, to apply the pardon, total or partial, of the penalty imposed (and therefore - contrary to the amnesty that extinguishes the crime - does not eliminate the necessity of the trial, but cancels, or reduces, the penalty imposed). (a) Indult would have the immediate effect of significantly reducing the prison population. According to DAP data, as of 30 June 2013, some 24,000 sentenced definitively were atoning for a residual detention sentence of no more than three years; thus, for the most part, they would be released as a result of indult, bringing the number of prisoners back to regulatory capacity; (b) the amnesty would allow for the immediate definition of a number of "bagatellar" cases (frequent for limitation if not at first instance, in the subsequent stages of the judgment), allowing judges to devote themselves to proceedings for more serious crimes and with prisoners in preventive imprisonment. This would have the effect - as well as generally speeding up the times of justice - of reducing the period suffered in custody prior to the intervention of the final judgment (or, in any case, before a sentence, even if not irrevocable); c) moreover, a general measure of clemency - with the consequent significant decrease of the workload of the offices - could certainly facilitate the implementation of the reform of the judicial geography, recently become operative. The significant overall reduction in the number of prisoners (both those in atonement for a final conviction and those in custody) resulting from the amnesty and indult measures would enable the result to be achieved in a timely manner to comply with the requirements of the European Court and, above all, to comply with the constitutional principles governing the execution of the sentence. In fact, it seems essential to start a decisive reversal of the trend on the models that characterize the detention, radically changing the living conditions of the restricted ones, offering them real opportunities for recovery. The re-education of the condemned - to which, by express constitutional prediction, must aim the execution of the sentence - requires some preconditions (such as the non-distance between the place of atonement and the residence of the family members; the distinction between persons waiting for trial and sentenced; the adequate protection of the right to health; dignified conditions of detention; differentiation of the models of intervention) that can be achieved only if the prison overcrowding is eliminated. This should be accompanied by the commitment of Parliament and the Government to pursue genuine structural reforms - beyond the urgent innovations already mentioned under point A) of this message - in order to prevent the phenomenon of "convict overcrowding" from being renewed. This highlights the profound connection between considering and dealing with this phenomenon and putting into hand a long-standing and long-awaited work of renewal of the Administration of Justice. The most obvious connection is between the unreasonable length of process times and the effects of congestion and ungovernability of prisons. But also remedies mentioned above, such as "an incisive decriminalization," refer to an overall reflection on the reforms that justice needs: and in order to identify and formally propose objectives of this nature, Chapter V of the final report presented on 12 April 2013 by the Working Group that I set up on 31 March that accompanied institutional reform issues that of the Administration of Justice. I hope that this message will also draw attention to the guidelines of that Working Group, which are shared by members of different political forces. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that you will understand the reasons why I addressed you through a formal message to Parliament and the nature of the issues that Italy is obliged to address on imperative European pronouncements. These are questions and reasons that pertain to those levels of civilization and dignity that our country cannot allow to compromise by unjustified distortions and omissions of prison policy and justice policy. Signed Giorgio Napolitano Controfirmato Enrico Letta Roma, October 7, 2013 [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL and Mixed and Senators Bignami and De Pietro.]] The letter of the President of the Republic and the message of which I have just read will be printed and distributed immediately as a document of the Senate (Doc. I, No 1). In accordance with the above, the Conference of Leaders will be able to establish the timing and modalities for a possible debate on the issues covered by the message.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u5	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, 9 October, 50 years have elapsed since the Vajont disaster. The affected population has suffered not only irreparable damage (the loss of human lives and hopes), but also a real injustice, made of denials, opacity, hesitations and slowness in recognizing those responsible for what happened. Faced with the broken life, the desert of people, countries and territories that that day were crushed by the almost surreal silence of the devastation, the State must bow down. Yet it is not enough: the state must also apologize. But, once again, it is not enough: the state must first repair. Nothing will be enough to remedy the wave of death that overwhelmed a firm and proud land of its history and work, but at least the State, capable of apologizing and repairing, will be able to give justice to those - children, women and men - who have suffered the abuse and betrayal by so many who could and should have avoided the tragedy and did not; they could and should have denounced the responsibilities and instead fled in front of history. The victims of Vajont are recognized in that list of deaths and pain of 1,910 people who died, but the faces of those still missing today are still incredibly invisible. Then, like today, survivors should not be left alone. They must be given justice, which means recognition of truth, attribution of responsibilities, material and moral compensation for those who have suffered, out of interest, denial of reality, irresponsibility and falsehood. Unheard of voices denounced, before and after the tragedy, the mortal risks that were about to overwhelm the humanity of those trusting and patient people towards the State and that interpreted their daily work and effort as fulfilling a duty. Tina Merlin used words that we have a duty to make our own today: It was a genocide. The few survivors made mad by terror (..). Genocide therefore, to be shouted out aloud to all, so that the cry shakes the consciences of the people and the people, whose skin never counts anything in front of the dividends of the masters of the steam, sweeps away at the end with a wave of anger and indignation those who play with impunity, in cold blood, with the lives of thousands of human creatures, in order to increase their profits and their power. I take responsibility for what I say; the guilty take responsibility for what they have done. And justice judges. After the tragedy a parliamentary committee of inquiry was set up, and the Historical Archives of the Senate edited and offered to the public a volume that collects the inventory and the complete documents of the investigation. Yet it took almost half a century for justice to judge. The criminal trial and the civil trial are an act of truth compared to a disaster that stopped time, that has left nothing and no one like before. I cannot fail to recall the words spoken by John Paul II precisely in the cemetery of the victims of the Vajont: Your relatives, friends and acquaintances were those who perished under the furious impetus of a huge mass of water. The almost apocalyptic vision of that evening of October 9, 1963 remains uncancellable for you and for all. Tears, blood, sacrifice of known and unknown people marked those tremendous hours. In the face of natural disasters, it is always the Pope's words that a mystery of human intellect, even absurd, remains. However, Vajont was a massacre that could and should have been avoided. It has not been avoided because on morality, on the value of life, on legality has prevailed the logic without heart for which business is business. We all therefore have a duty to give account of irresponsible choices, and the State, as has been written today by a national newspaper, has finally asked for forgiveness, albeit with half a century's delay. In 2008, in Paris, UNESCO considered Vajont as the first of the most serious avoidable disasters in the history of humanity; it defined it as a warning story, the story - as it has recently been written - of a world that disappeared in one night. The institutions, the politics, the citizens have the duty of memory. Memory means not only remembrance, but also awareness and awareness of the values of justice that are at the foundation of every human relationship. There are moments, in the history of our country, in which to tell, if necessary to scream the truth is an indispensable duty. Economics and labour cannot be traded for risks or injuries to the health of citizens. Work is not a good opposite to the environment; work is based on respect, protection and the guarantee of the inviolable rights of man. Remembering the Vajont disaster means accepting the hard lesson that the logic of conveniences, interests, easy solutions sooner or later breaks against the face of real people. And that is why, making myself an interpreter - I am sure - of the feelings of each of us, tomorrow I will be in that land violated and abused, hit by terror and devastation. I will be there to bow down to the victims and survivors, I will be there to apologize to the state, I will be there to repair, stating that the primary task of the institutions is not to abandon the victims and the survivors. Those same survivors had the strength to repair and rebuild and showed us the way that, without conditions, with integrity, faithful to the Constitution, we all have to go together: the path of solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, in memory of the victims and survivors of the Vajont disaster, I invite you to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]] [[Applause]] You have asked the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Sea and the Land, Mr Orlando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to honour the deaths of the victims on 9 October fifty years ago, the deaths of Longarone, Erto and Casso, the inhabitants of Vajont, which was the scene of the catastrophe. A few days ago, visiting the places of the disaster, I felt a strong feeling of debt: the debt of never having gone before, and not as Minister of the Republic, but as an Italian citizen. The Vajont valley, the concrete wall of the dam, the destroyed and abandoned countries and the destroyed and rebuilt countries should be fundamental stages of a path of formation of national consciousness, of what some would call a civil religion. You have to go to the cemetery of Fortogna, go and read those names: of many of those lives swept away and submerged only one name remained. They are carved 1,910 names in the tombstones: 1,910 dead, according to the official figure, a number that cannot and must not be forgotten, but remains carved even stronger in memory. Memory has dominated everything in those places and we here today, as representatives of the institutions (institutions although very different from those that contributed to the construction of the catastrophe in a time too far), have the duty to approach that memory, that memory with a load of humility and deference. There are moments in the life of a nation in which the state and the representative have the duty to assume the most difficult of responsibilities, the most serious: to apologize to its citizens. I do not believe that the state in these long years in front of the citizens of Vajont has done everything it should and could have done to amend itself from responsibility, which a crooked process finally brought to light, after too long, after too much time. Fifty years ago, there were mistakes. Too many were the inattentivenesss of the after. There are the unspoken words, the wrong words, which have continued to speak. If one speaks of man's neglect in the law establishing National Day in memory of the victims of environmental and industrial disasters, a law in some way and to some extent inspired by Vajont, it means that even today the State, perhaps only out of distraction, does not honor the debt with memory. For the cause was not the neglect: it was man, his faults, his complicity. Correcting this error, no less serious if made out of distraction, is now also a duty of the whole of Parliament. And above all, let me say this when, unfortunately, for these reasons we still have too many daily accounts with unacceptable loss of life. It happened this morning in the tarantino. It happened a few days ago in Maremma. Memory is demanding, it has to be. The memory of Vajont has been dug up by the investigations first and then by literature (documentaries, cinema and above all that extraordinary representation of civil theatre), which make it a collective story. But has this dilapidated account really been rooted in national consciousness? I believe that we must go to those places and that schools should go there: that there is still a need to stare at those mountains, that concrete wall and those tombs, to rebuild again the thread of memory with the living voice of the survivors and the saved. The special story of how it was before and the terrible one of that evening: the noise, the wind that no longer ends, the earthquake of the houses, the lights that turn off, the air that is not breathed, the water, the stones, the mud, the expanse of rubble, the screams buried. For those who, like me and others in this House, were born after that tragic October 9, 1963, the Vajont disaster is not a memory, but it is a symbol. A powerful symbol of Italy that we have built, for good and, in this case, for evil. A symbol of the mistakes and tragedies that we could have avoided. Even the United Nations cites him as a paradigm case of a miscalculation relationship between man and earth, of what was not to be done. The Vajont is that work of man, with his boldness and his faults. It is the violation of a limit in the transformation of nature. It's the superficial relationship with science. It is imprudence in pursuing progress. For all this, the words of a Minister for the Environment cannot be limited to commemoration. They must have a precise political significance, because as then, and perhaps more than then, man's relationship with nature in the process of development is the theme of our time. So much has been done since 1963. The shameful events that led to the tragedy of Vajont, with the responsibilities of state officials, of the then Ministry of Public Works, could not be repeated today. The guarantees for the safety of citizens, environmental protection in the work of transformation of the territory are normative acquisitions, tightening constraints. Yet if I look at the issues that I am called to face every day, the Vajont disaster remains an ever-present warning. The big issue of soil protection and hydrogeological safety is more acute than in 1963. It is a real national emergency: 5.581 Italian municipalities fall into areas classified as potentially higher risk. The consequences of the hydrogeological failure are not only social, economic and environmental, but today as then they cause the risk of catastrophic events and expose too many human lives that live in those places. That is why I have committed myself with the entire Government to promoting a bill for the containment of consumption and land reuse, which is waiting for the opinion of the unified State-Regions Conference for now and which I hope will be positive and rapid, because this law - I want to say it to all political forces - is an absolute priority. In the same spirit, in this House, you approved in September a unitary agenda on the risks of hydrogeological disruption which, among other things, commits us as a Government to provide, under the Stability Act, additional resources to be allocated to the prevention and maintenance of the territory, to take steps to ensure that the use of these resources is excluded from the financial balance relevant to the compliance with the Stability Pact, to establish a national soil protection fund. Even in the Environment Commission, a resolution was unanimously adopted a few days ago in the Chamber of Deputies so that the commemoration of the tragedy of Vajont could be translated into a series of concrete initiatives aimed at solving the problems of the system of prevention and protection of the territory. Prevention is the main challenge; it is the one on which we must focus, also in terms of awareness, because awareness on this issue today is not much greater than that of fifty years ago. We need a great deal of redevelopment of the territory, environmental infrastructure that will secure it, prevention measures from the risks related to natural structures and projects for the transformation of the territory. There is a lack of resources - it is said - and, in fact, the necessary resources are enormous. The total need for hydrogeological planning plans amounts to EUR 40 billion, of which EUR 11 billion relate to the most urgent measures. To Mr Saccomanni, to whom we have already asked in the Stability Act 500 million per year for risk mitigation, I have also presented the need to resolve the problem of exceeding the limits of the Internal Stability Pact for measures to secure the territory: a condition, for the impossibility of spending, which is added mockery to the scarcity of resources. However, it is essential for this land-development work to recognise the possibility of using the Structural Funds in Europe for action to combat hydrogeological disruption. On this, in addition to the commitment of the Government, I believe that there should be the support of the entire Parliament. We need to be aware that the lack of environmental prevention measures risk generating a much higher cost and then repairing disasters. That's what all estimates tell us. What they do not say, however, is the other incalculable costs, which concern people's lives and health. It is not a battle of ideological ecology, therefore, the deterioration of the territory, environmental degradation, the consequences of climate change, poor management of water and waste will produce unsustainable expenditure if we do not take the appropriate measures in time. The Vajont is always current because it recalls the whole of the issues around the great works, especially in natural contexts of a beauty that the world envies us. With the question of the great works we touch on the critical point of the relationship between technique and its progress and the requirements of life, of quality of life of the populations. Compared to 50 years ago, we may have more confidence in technology, except for the rules of prudence that now accompany progress and experimentation. We must never let our guard down. It is often the local populations, the resistance of citizens and communities that cannot always be dismissed as "environmentalism of the no" or as "localism of the no." There is an ancient wisdom of the people, of those who have experience and tradition of the places that deserves trust, attention and respect: this also teaches us the tragedy of Vajont. I think of the families of Erto who opposed, as long as they could, the construction of the dam; I think of those who denounced in time what was already known and could be avoided. It is not a question of accepting opposition to works: it is a question of investing in the participation of the people in decisions. What was not done then and that in Italy has never been done. It is only through an investment in active participation that politics and institutions at all levels can rebuild that relationship of trust with citizens largely compromised. It is not only a matter of method, but also of merit, because the best design solutions, those that approach the general interest and a quality development that respects and relaunches territorial vocations, can only result from a confrontation, even hard and tight, between different visions and approaches. For these reasons, I have proposed to the Council of Ministers to introduce in our country the instrument of débat public, through procedures supervised by an independent public subject, to be carried out in certain times, of consultation of the populations on the realization of the great works that affect the environment and the life of the local communities. Only if involvement and participation are guaranteed from the beginning, the choices can be pursued with effectiveness and timeliness, as they are accepted at the decision-making stage and not challenged afterwards until the stalemate. In this way, even the nos can be adequately motivated. It can then be discovered, after a responsible public discussion, that a certain work cannot be done somewhere because the risk is too high. It can be discovered that at least one like Tina Merlin must be listened to, and should not be denounced for spreading false and tendentious news to disturb public order for political purposes, as happened fifty years ago. The memory of Vajont today reminds us that the mistakes of the past cannot be repeated, that the path of development of man cannot threaten nature or continue to violate it, but must be directed towards a path of social and environmental sustainability because, as the extraordinary woman - Tina Merlin, in fact - in the aftermath of the catastrophe, it is not only possible to cry, it is time to learn something. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u9	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the night of 9 October 1963 it took four minutes to wipe out an entire country, wipe out 1,917 lives and cause a certain idea of modernity and confidence in progress to falter forever. Italy in 1963 was a country at the dawn of its most thriving season - the economic boom, the rampant well-being - but with Vajont it was clear that the sudden and disorderly modernization hid a dark and fierce side. This side would have told us in a profound and systemic way great intellectuals, such as Luciano Bianciardi with his "La vita agra" and Pierpaolo Pasolini, who would have warned, with his civil invectives, from the process of anthropological uprooting of a society that as a peasant found itself to deal with a new unprecedented condition, without, however, possessing all the tools to understand that modernity to hinged tambur did not automatically bring progress. That of Vajont was not a tragedy, as it has been defined for too many years: it was a real massacre produced by the carelessness of man, by irresponsible and conniving institutions, by the leaders of Sade, by an uncritical race towards an unholy and progressless modernity. The communities and countries of Vajont paid a very high price, starting with Longarone; and they paid him, at least until the time of the massacre, the few critical voices such as Tina Merlin's, several times remembered, who was forced to defend herself in court for her articles of denunciation. They continued to pay for all this, in the years to come, the survivors, the survivors, forced to suffer the shame of an event that in the collective memory and in that of the institutions had a place of second order compared to other events just as dramatic in the history of Italy. Perhaps because that massacre lies at the generation of the economic boom as the sinking of the Titanic lies at that of the Belle Époque: events that have shown us the dark side of an era, the tragic and dramatic data inherent in it, and for this it is necessary of some form of removal or diminution. Today, however, Vajont would need to be remembered to be a warning also compared to what has happened in these fifty years, because, as highlighted in a WWF study of some time ago, the cementification of the Peninsula and the deviated waterways have produced new risk areas, a fact that affects about 10 percent of the national territory. Simply see what happens in our country whenever there is a strong disturbance, to record considerable damage to people and things, as happened last weekend. It is then necessary to consider the maintenance of the territory and the hydrogeological defense as a strategic priority of the country. We also reiterated this in a motion that I myself signed and that was approved by the Senate; and the Minister also explained the commitments that the Government is ready to make. And we must combat abuse, which is still a daily practice, and which should instead be framed and sanctioned hard for the creation of danger to public safety. It would be the best way to honor the memory of those who lost their lives and for all those who lived their lives by mourning the absence of their loved ones. Just as it would also offer the right recognition to all those who, in the terrible days following the massacre, worked to save hundreds of lives and to give worthy burial to the dead: the volunteers, the military, the simple citizens who found themselves facing the unimaginable and did so with courage and self-denial. The beautiful face of our country, the mud angels, similar to those who only a few years later from Vajont would come to Florence destroyed by the flood to save its citizens, its beauty and its history. As Merlin herself wrote: "I simply wanted to prevent this disaster from affecting the mountains of the earth where I was born, where I fought partisan war, where I lived my whole life. And now I can't even express my anger, my fury for failing. Pain and rage, says Merlin, feelings to which we cannot be resigned, which in any way must become the prominent ones in the biography of our country. And remembering the Vajont, my thoughts cannot fail to go to the tragedy of Stava, in my land in Trentino, which happened on July 19, 1985, with its 268 victims. This is also an absolutely avoidable tragedy. I remember very well the moment of the announcement of the news and I still feel that shame that took us all when we realized that we had broken the delicate balance that unites us with nature, when we realized that we had gone too far. I sculpted in my mind the engraving on the monument donated by the populations of Vajont to the superstits of the Val di Stava flocked in the identical disaster. The tragedies of Vajont and Stava are there to remind us of errors and to remember them, but, thanks also to the meritorious work of many, and in particular of the well-deserved Foundation Stava 1985, to which the Municipality of Longarone adheres, they are also there to mean the will not to repeat them. But I think it is right to give thanks also to those who have allowed reconstruction, because rebuilding means returning to life. Children and young people of that time, stunned by so much violence and unbridled pain, are now finding countries where it is still worth living. For this reason the hope is that this is not only an anniversary for a necessary remembrance, but also an opportunity to start again on a path more respectful of nature and more attentive to sustainability, to think and build a safer country, a country where innovation makes one with progress and where the dead and tragedies do not pass in vain. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD and the Bell and Vacciano senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u12	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was October 9, 1963: in the artificial hydroelectric basin of Vajont a colossal landslide fell from the northern side of Mount Toc, detached from the rise of the waters of the artificial lake over 700 meters. This fact, combined with a situation of unfavourable weather conditions and combined with strong negligence in the management of possible dangers, due to the particular hydrogeological structure of the mountain side, triggered the disaster. At 22.39 that day, about 260 million cubic meters of rock (a volume almost three times the water contained in the invader) slipped at a speed of 108 kilometers in the basin below created by the Vajont dam, causing a flood wave that exceeded the dam 200 meters high and that, in part, climbed the opposite side. Neighboring countries were overwhelmed. There were 1,910 victims, of which only in Longarone 1,450, and hundreds in Codissago, Castellavazzo, Erto, Casso and many originating in other municipalities. It has been estimated that the shock wave due to air displacement was of the same intensity, if not even greater, as that generated by the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima. There are testimonies of survivors hurled several hundred meters away before even the mass of water fell to the ground at a speed of nearly 100 kilometers per hour. In February 2008, during the International Year of Planet Earth declared by the United Nations General Assembly, in a session devoted to the importance of the correct understanding of earth's sciences, the Vajont disaster was mentioned (as the President recalled), along with four other events, as an exemplary case of avoidable disaster caused by the failure of engineers and geologists to understand the nature of the problem they were trying to address. Within that absolutely critical picture, on November 4, 1960 there was a medium-sized landslide (about 800,000 cubic meters) on the left side. Although without damage, this was a clear warning of the precariousness of the stability of the slopes, and this with a surface level of the basin that reached only 650 meters. At the same time, a huge perimeter fissure opened up on the mountain. In those days, as has been recalled, the journalist de "L'Unità" Tina Merlin wrote on February 21, 1961: It was therefore right when, by collecting the concerns of the population, it was denounced the existence of a certain danger constituted by the formation of the lake. And the danger becomes more and more looming. On the site of the landslide the ground continues to yield, there is an impressive noise of land and rocks that continue to fall. And the wide cracks on the ground that embrace a surface of entire kilometers cannot make sure calm. Merlin herself carried out an information campaign against the dam for the duration of the construction work. Unheard by the institutions, the journalist was denounced for spreading false and tendentious news to disturb public order through her articles, then tried and acquitted by the Milan court. In 1963, Indro Montanelli and Dino Buzzati took a critical position on the real causes of the tragedy, affirming the nature of the natural catastrophe of the tragedy, and noting the activity of some Italian journalists, including Tina Merlin, accusing her of political speculation. Years later Montanelli made it clear that at that time it was widely shared the suspicion that those voices only wanted to benefit the cause of that political part which claimed the nationalization of the electricity industry. However, he took note of the criminal responsibilities established in the courts and, although he felt that he had been misinterpreted, he apologized anyway: With this, I do not intend to defend a mistake. I committed it. But I'm afraid, under similar circumstances, I'd go back to committing it. The fact that the area was anything but stable proves this by historical documents dating back to Catullo, which speaks of a landslide that fell on the valley floor; later, landslides occurred in 1347, 1737, 1814 and 1868. They detached themselves, in particular, from Mount Antelao, causing victims and considerable damage. Subsequent studies show that the conjunction of two factors (lake and rain) triggered the landslide, when the combination of intense rainfall and high level of the lake proved sufficient to trigger. Certainly there were many preparatory or predisposing causes, variously interpreted: geological constitution of the slope of Mount Toc, progressive deforestation, decay of mechanical characteristics, debanking, engravings caused by the construction, presence of the artificial lake, abundant rains, level of the lake itself. After the disaster, the Ministry of Public Works launched an investigation into the causes of the disaster. A series of works of dubious utility such as the waterproofing of the Passo di Sant'Osvaldo are carried out, with a screen known as the wall of shame, or crying. Subsequently, judicial activity has clarified a lot and many of the responsibilities, up to almost today. From March 15 to March 25, 1971 in Rome the trial takes place in Cassation, where the verdict of the second degree process is confirmed, but the penalties are reduced to individuals and the responsibilities are sometimes not made sufficiently clear. To try to restart the local economy as a result of the tragedy, the Italian Parliament passed a law, called Vajont law. It provided that any inhabitant of the affected municipalities who had a commercial, craft or industrial licence on 9 October 1963 would be given a grant to compensate for the value of the destroyed activity. If the beneficiary could not or wanted to resume the previous activity, he was entitled to transfer the licence to third parties, who enjoyed the same exemptions and advantages. It was thus that companies and companies that were completely unrelated to the affair, by purchasing the licences in question for ludicrous prices, were able to enjoy particularly important public funding initially allocated to the victims. The commemoration of this tragedy takes on particular symbolic value in our present. We live at a time when the relationship between man and the environment, today much more than in 1963, seems to have been definitively cracked in the name of globalization, industrialization, profit, cementification, the consumption of resources and territory, all sides of the same coin: the submission of the environment to the overpowering and prevaricating will of man. Persisting along this path will not take us far: nature itself, now more and more often, leads us back to more meek advice. Earthquakes, landslides, floods, besides being unpredictable and catastrophic events, can be, as Vajont reminds us, also the consequence of serious human errors, perpetrated in the presumption of absolute dominion over nature. This conviction begins to crumble. Policies of soil impoverishment, of small and large works disrespectful of the limits and natural barriers, of wild logging, of geological depletion, of building abuse are producing increasingly dangerous phenomena for man. Similarly, the burial and illegal disposal of toxic waste, the use of industrial and agricultural production systems incompatible with the natural cycle are spreading the risks to human health, of important irreversible environmental climate changes, noted and denounced as such by great scholars and attentive observers of what happens to our planet. The Vajont, in addition to letting us lay a symbolic flower for all the innocent victims of a disaster announced, should constitute a warning for the successive generations to resettle our indissoluble bond with the environment and to carry out concrete policies to fight against all those mafias and interests that today, through wild actions, make themselves responsible and conniving of systems that in the long run put at risk the lives of people. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to create a great ecological conversion of our country and Europe, of the entire planet, which is now no longer postponed, an unavoidable challenge for unanimity, precisely in order to avoid a tragic medieval manifestation of all the clear signs that only those who do not want to have the eyes to see can obtusely deny. The remembrance and respect of those thousands of broken lives, of children as well as of men, old people and women, requires us to be inflexible first of all with ourselves, with our daily life marked by consumption rather than use and reuse, to destroy rather than to renew. Similarly, the tragedies that in these days, even in these hours, tear our country apart and reap innocent victims in Grossetano and Tuscany as in Puglia, oblige us to intervene with the utmost determination. In short, I believe in a growth that is no longer overwhelming towards humanity and the entire environmental system, living and not living; a growth in harmony with the needs, needs, respect and the common good that unites believers and atheists, for the Earth on which we live, if we want it to continue to host us for thousands and thousands of future generations. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Morgoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u15	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is with the pride of a territory of which I feel humbly spokesperson that I bring the greetings of the municipal administrations of Longarone, Castellavazzo, Vajont, Erto and Casso, trying to interpret the sentiment of the communities that tomorrow will meet to solemnly celebrate the 50th anniversary of the sad anniversary of the catastrophe of Vajont, to honour the 1910 victims of a wretched and selfish human choice that led, at 22.39 on the night of 9 October 1963, only death and despair in the name of profit. 1910 victims: 1458 in Longarone, 111 in Codissago and Castellavazzo, 158 in Erto and Casso and almost 200 from other municipalities. Children, women and men, intelligences and abilities, present and future, who could certainly have contributed fully to the growth of the social and economic fabric of Belluno, my homeland, the land in which I live. All swept away in one night by a flood wave of more than 200 meters high caused by about 260 million cubic meters of rock, slipped inexorably from Mount Toc into the artificial Vajont invade. 260 million cubic meters: the triple of the water contained in the invader itself. A landslide that already foretold the tragedy with the unfortunate choice to build there that dam cursed, a landslide of enormous dimensions that caused the damn tricuspid wave that climbed the opposite side of the mountain, destroying the inhabited along the shores of the lake in the Municipality of Erto and Casso, and then passed the dam, still intact today in its looming majesty, to traverse the municipalities along the Valley of Piave and completely erase Longarone and Castellavazzo. A selfish choice in the name of profit alone, which has devastated families and destroyed the future of a community marked forever by the memory of an event that has irreparably torn apart a population and a territory of extraordinary wealth. A community that with tears still keeps alive the feeling of gratitude for those who have been able to respond to human selfishness with human solidarity, live even more in these days of silent, often intimate, remembrance. I quote the words of the mayor of Longarone Roberto Padrin, in his speech for last year's celebrations: I was excited when with the colleagues of Castellavazzo, Vajont and Erto and Casso, at the initiative of the vice president of the Vajont Foundation, the architect Renato Migotti, we gave gratitude to those Municipalities who, in the days after October 9, '63 made available to the medical and health authorities their facilities to welcome the bodies, carry out their recognition and ascertain their composition. An act of extraordinary and unforgettable humanity. An act for which the mayor of Longarone handed out certificates of merit to the municipalities that helped to accommodate the remains of the victims. On the idea of a citizen, the mayor on that occasion also launched an invitation to all the municipalities of the provinces of Belluno and Pordenone, an invitation that today I address to all of you, to dedicate a way, a road, the classroom of a school, a building itself, to Vajont as a symbol of the solidarity received, not to forget that great gesture of humanity. A gesture given by those volunteers who, going up the Piave Valley, no longer found their way along the road, along the railroad crossed many times, but only mud, rubble and deaths, as the alpines remember, young boys of twenty, who first arrived on the spot: too many deaths, often unrecognizable, not all unfortunately brought back to worthy burial by digging with bare hands with despair in the heart. So much solidarity, strengthened over the years, has led us through a complex process, started long ago thanks to survivors and survivors, to ensure that October 9 is recognized as a national day in memory of the victims of environmental and industrial disasters caused by man's carelessness. Although it is with reasonableness the word is less related to the Vajont catastrophe. In February 2008, during the presentation of the International Year of Planet Earth declared by the United Nations General Assembly for 2008, the Vajont disaster was cited - together with four others - as an exemplary case of avoidable disaster caused by the lack of understanding of earth's sciences and - in this case - by the failure of engineers and geologists to understand the nature of the problem they were trying to address. A selfish choice, I said, that that October 9, 1963 represented not only for us, but for the whole Triveneto, the reason, or rather unfortunately the cause, to transform also the economy of these Regions. In fact, you cannot forget the special laws for Vajont, which, through the resources intended, have allowed the start of entrepreneurial activities that have strengthened and modified the socio-economic fabric of Belluno, allowing the return of thousands of migrants, many of whom unfortunately have not found their affections and their homes, and instead offering the impulse to the Northeast to become the economic locomotive of the country. Many entrepreneurs decided to set up their activities here by linking themselves to a wounded but strong land of the will, character of their own people. Social and economic reality that is suffering even today in the fear of a new but already experienced departure of young migrants, because the crisis we are going through does not spare anyone, even those who have already given so much, too much, to selfishness and the interests dictated by money. When in religious silence we cross the monumental cemetery of Fortogna, before reaching Longarone, we feel powerless looking at the too many white tombstones that lead us to the inside of the chapel, where an endless list of names leads us back to the enormity of despair that accompanied the survivors from that October 9 of fifty years ago. And here then, despite the economic difficulties that accompany us at this moment, I ask for a gesture of gratitude and respect for all our dead, remembering them not only in prayer but also with a concrete action for which I address this Government, engaging it with a formal act to which I am certain cannot be answered with a disrespectful denial towards this country: to recognize a necessary annual contribution to preserve with the dignity and respect due the monumental cemetery. And precisely to this end I will present an amendment to the next law of stability to allocate an annual figure which, if symbolic, serves to ensure the historical memory and memory through the preservation of this shrine, sure that the Government, on this occasion, will not leave me and will not leave us alone. I renew to the President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano, to the President of the Council Enrico Letta and to all the Government the invitation to honor our dead and to meet, on the day of the sixth anniversary, tomorrow, the population to share the pain, seal in memory what happened and try to understand how long the acceptance of 1,910 deaths for which still today have not few doubts for responsibilities that still lack many, too many answers. Few, to date too few, have felt the duty to apologize. I ask you not to forget, to gather this invitation and not to let time allow our memory and future generations to forget the massacre of Vajont. Thank you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PD and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u18	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in the Vajont and Piave Valley has left an indelible mark on the conscience of those who have survived and in subsequent generations throughout the national territory. The tragedy of Vajont is the result of three mistakes, which must be recognized in order to avoid making them again. The first mistake was the creation of a gigantic conflict of interest, a mixture of electricity-producing companies, scientific communities, manufacturers, newspapers and politics. The second error was a model of development based, in the end, on the idea of the almost absolute possibility of control of man over nature. The landslide of the Toc was well known, so much so that a simulation model was built, which however predicted a much lower wave than the one actually realized, underestimating both the quantity of the landslide material, and its speed of fall within the artificial lake. The third mistake was an idea of energy production based on the pervasive and intensive construction of large hydroelectric plants, where the mountain and in general the territory are seen as something to be exploited and modified in the name of progress and the inhabitants only as a passive subject, in a basically colonial perspective. (17.29) (Followed by the ZUANNA). It must be said that this attitude, until before Vajont, was widely shared. Today it is surprising to read the introductory chapter of the 1950 edition of the Berti guide, the Bible of the mountaineers of the Dolomites, written by Carlo Semenza, the engineer who will then design the Vajont dam. In this text there is a map of the hydroelectric plants planned in the Dolomites, much higher than those actually made. The involvement of engineer Semenza in this book - also magnificent - for mountaineers and hikers helps to understand the cultural milieu of the time, in which the large hydroelectric plants were seen by the vast majority of Italians - and practically by all the dominant culture - as fully integrated to the mountain landscape, fly of development necessary and almost providential for the populations of the mountain, then devastated by emigration and poverty. Fifty years after Vajont, these three mistakes must be avoided in all political and economic action. The conflict of interests must be eradicated, separating, always and in any case, those controlled by the controllers. Scientist prejudice must not be replaced by anti-scientific prejudice, but by an authentically scientific approach, which adopts prudential criteria by its nature and according to which large-impact projects must be subjected to the complex assessment of the entire scientific community, in accordance with criteria of transparency and pooling of all available data. Finally, the distributed production of energy must be supported and encouraged, and the construction of large plants - if necessary - must be conditional on strict environmental impact measures, trying to predict and monitor carefully the complex feedback often resulting from the great works. In addition, local communities must be involved, informed and, first of all, respected. Respect for these rules is the true homage that the entire national community can give to the 1,910 dead in Vajont. That their sacrifice might not have been in vain. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u21	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, Vajont was a massacre, not a natural tragedy, and it was caused by man's thirst for money. It was the poisonous fruitage of what we should all fight. 50 years have passed and nothing has changed, indeed some things have worsened: the influence of economic lobbying in politics, corruption (we are in 72nd place in the world and we are getting worse), freedom of the press (we are in 57th place in the world and journalism is too often deaf or servile, there have always been and there are still intimidation to the free voices: a memory goes to Tina Merlin, Cassandra unheard, boycotted and even denounced for trying to lift the veil of shame that covered the affair of Vajont), the technical and scientific incompetencies of politicians, who all too often do not listen to the technical advice of the competent professional categories. All of this led then to 1,910 dead, of which 470 children, died because of those who kept their lives in the least account of profit. Today we believe that the only way to truly honour their memory is to denounce firmly and act accordingly. But report what? Denouncing the current massacres, the ones that happen now, to avoid other deaths and other victims. I would like to make a few very limited examples: the environmental disaster of the Niger delta - by, among others, ENI - for oil extraction, of which politics does not speak; or the 10,000 deaths per year in Italy due to air pollution due to oil or coal power stations. The number of such deaths could decrease drastically by making better use of solar and wind energy, extremely less polluting and instead 14 megaprojects of use of fossil sources are underway in the world that, if realized, will increase by 20 percent the emission of CO2 into the atmosphere, causing an increase of 5 degrees centigrade of the same, with damages simply incalculable, while the number of deaths can already be safely estimated in several million. And how many deaths is causing and will cause the continuous shredding of thousands of tons of plastics, lacquers, solvents, chemical paints that flow every year into the lakes, streams and rivers of Italy and inevitably end up in the food chain? And who makes money in selling thousands of tons of herbicides, pesticides, pesticides, etc., to be used in agriculture and whose chemical composition is not even known in detail? Why don't you make it public? Why is it silent that even in my Marca Trevigiana the rate of leukemia in wine-growing areas is significantly higher than normal? How many more cancer deaths are we gonna have to wait to raise the problem? And how many real deaths then generate the virtual speculations of the great international finance? It is the same finance that has caused the great financial crisis that has plagued us since 2008, which has speculated to the last on the same and to which the world's public funds have lent at least 15,000 billion, which can bet on the rising or decreasing prices of food, which in recent years has caused two major increases in the price of food in poor countries and consequently hunger for millions of people, which recycles huge amounts of money coming from organized crime and drains resources for real economies bringing its capital into tax havens. There are countless other silent massacres, slow, real stylicides of human lives, wherever there is exploitation of men and unfortunately even children, whether they are used as meat for slaughter in armies of child soldiers, or as sexual goods, or used in mines, or in plantations sprayed with pesticides where they work without any protection, or exploited in sub-sub contracts to weave carpets, sew balloons, shoes, assemble games that they will never use, or in thousands of other inhuman ways. To finish this very partial dramatic sequence, it is impossible not to see in the Ilva of Taranto a new Vajont, while the TAV Torino-Lion could become it, due to the problem of asbestos and radioactivity. To act accordingly, we said: to make a different country for real, a normal country. Essentially we have to: act on the hydrogeological reorganization; and instead we continue to spend for the damage suffered, a hundred times as much compared to the costs of prevention (it is a few hours ago yet another tragedy that has been consumed in the Tarantino); to secure the buildings; to clean up the innumerable industrial and civil sites heavily polluted, of which the so-called land of fires represents once again the tip of the iceberg. Everything now said has a single common denominator, which is of course the thirst for money and power and which is determined mainly by the oligopoly. Oligopoly therefore of energy sources, food, fresh water; oligopoly of telecommunications and broadband Internet, which already make the difference between a flourishing economy and respectful of the dignity of man and the environment and a stagnant one. The 5 Star Movement won't allow this, we won't allow this. Energy sources must be widespread and owned by everyone; already today there are technologies to make homes autonomous and to feed industries and we will push for them to be adopted. On the water we have already blocked once the craving for privatisation and we will continue to monitor, just as we will monitor the trade in food. On telecommunications we want the republicization of the Telecom ridge, which was ours, paid with the money of the taxes of our fathers and grandparents, in its time sold out - and I repeat: sold out - for four dollars. And so we allow ourselves to ask the other political groups: do you want it to be published, or do you prefer it to go into the hands of the Spanish of Telephonica? We believe that with these actions, real and concrete, we truly honor the memory of the victims of Vajont, the rest is hypocrisy. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u24	SMALL (PdL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with deep emotion that I am speaking to recall an event that has marked the lives of many of my fellow countrymen and that in a few minutes has dragged a valley, a province, an entire nation from the dream and the challenge of the great hydraulic works of the Second World War to the nightmare of an unprecedented tragedy in the world. Fifty years have passed since, at 22,39 on October 9, 1963, 260 million cubic metres of rock and debris fell off Mount Toc, on the border between the Provinces of Belluno and Pordenone, and slipped at a speed of about 100 kilometers per hour into the artificial basin created by the construction of the dam on the stream Vajont, tributary of the Piave. 260 million cubic meters: about a hundred times the volume of the Great Pyramid of Cheope. The basin was submerged, almost disappeared. A wave more than 100 meters high over the dam and crashed on the town of Longarone with unheard of violence, Lambi Castellavazzo, while also upstream a second cusp of water devastated the inhabitants of Erto and Casso. After a few minutes, the Piave flowed to a scary height, carrying about 2,000 dead for tens of miles. The barrier of Vajont was built by SADE, with the aim of creating a volume of 160 million cubic metres of water for hydroelectric and irrigation use within the Piave hydraulic system. In three years, from the summer of 1958 to the summer of 1960, a double arc reinforced concrete dam was built, 261 meters high, twice the height of the dome of St. Peter, with a thickness of 22 meters at the base and 3,4 meters at the top and with 170 kilometers of perforation to stabilize the shoulders. From the engineering point of view, therefore, it was a highly representative experience of Italian construction capacity. Even today it is the fifth highest dam in the world, so well realized to withstand the tremendous impact of the landslide and wave without collapse. That of Vajont is a terrible story, a timeless event, because in three dramatic minutes many aspects of civil, social, economic and political life have been concentrated that we still carry with us today. The Vajont is a frightening drama and its place is not just on history books. Vajont, for many of our fellow citizens, as well as for me, is "the" story. In history there are man and his ingenuity, his ambition, his presumption, his limits; there are the territory and nature: weak, fragile and then furious, as are the mountain territories, to which - let me be allowed - it is necessary to pay more frequent attention and outside the occasions of single circumstance. In this regard, I would like to thank President Grasso, who confirmed his presence in Longarone tomorrow, 9 October, to further confirm the closeness of the institutions to the mountain of Belluno. Then there are the families, the missing ones, those of the survivors, those of the survivors. There are companies, which, from the rubble, together with the far-sighted "Vajont" laws, have done a miracle, bringing to the country one of the most advanced industrial and productive realities in Europe. There are the volunteers, who through that dramatic experience have made known to us the extraordinary value of solidarity: alpine, firefighters, associations, the first nucleus of today's envied Civil Protection. In the Vajont, finally, there is the State, that State that was granted the right to hydraulic derivation, controller of the construction and management of the plant, finally judge of the tragedy. A State to which the anger of those who had lost everything has often turned and rightly demanded answers from the State to their own loss. Unfortunately, in the face of such a tearful and powerful event, the State has not been able to oppose an equally powerful force of action in appropriate times. The demands for justice have been broken against unwitting proclamations and lately repairing actions. It is enough just to think that the events related to compensation have closed after even 37 years. Such an event requires an active, operational and forward-looking memory. The themes of safety, risk assessment, environmental analysis, emergency prevention and management, development and innovation (e.g. in the field of fluid dynamics models), scientific research, psychological support in the event of disasters and the management and processing of mourning have gradually become everyday after Vajont. It is not just a matter of remembering; what the tragedy gives us is that in no activity must be left room for conscious superficiality and that no particular interest can allow approximation in choices. Let us first remember, ladies and gentlemen, that we are called upon to regulate society with just and effective rules, which can be the first and fundamental act of prevention. The Vajont - I conclude - appears as a sort of great scar that is printed in the history of our Italy. Sewning the tissues lacerated by the tragedy is not enough: fundamental is that the memory of the drama brings to the present an experience made of errors and together of an extraordinary ability to share. On the fiftieth anniversary of that terrible night of October 9, 1963, I wish my fellow citizens, our mountains and our country always to bring with them the solidity and concreteness of intentions that, after the drama, allowed us to be reborn. [[Applause from the PDL and SCPI groups and Senator Laniece. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u27	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, for some time in the Senate the space dedicated to commemorations has grown, with many testimonies from all of us and from the same President Grasso. I do not want to underestimate the attention we devote to our past, but I must say that I fear the habit, I fear the routine. I fear this, Mr President, because we talk a lot about our past, but we learn little from it: from our past I see few acts, few decisions, few subsequent events. The Vajont deserves to be remembered without rhetoric and without infiction, not only because of the scale of the tragedy and the accumulation of pain that has followed, but also because the facts that have caused it are emblematic of our vices. There is only one way in which the Senate can honour the 1,918 deaths of October 9, 1963: doing its duty as legislator and approving good laws that, as far as humanly possible, prevent the repetition of mourning. Only this commitment can give civil value to this session of ours, to this commemoration of ours. Of the Vajont we know everything, we certainly know the essential: that the dam was well built and resisted the landslide; that it had been carried out in the wrong place and that this error had been denounced; that the many alarms were not collected by those who strongly wanted the dam, by SADE, and by the public authorities, that they would have to approve and control; that the very serious dangers were kept hidden from the population, which was not given the opportunity to escape; that the landslide that caused the wave had the violence of 270 million cubic meters of earth and debris. In a word, we know that the disaster was predictable and that it had been planned well in advance. The story of Vajont can be read in so many ways and I believe that the most direct and true reading is that of a story of powerful characters who want to invest with great profit their capitals and who want to do it quickly, without caution and without attention to the risks to the lives of so many people. But it is also the affair of the State that is not there, that nothing sees, that nothing hears and nothing does. It is also the story of a state subject to what, in those years, was called the mistress race. And it is with great sorrow - I say this sincerely - that we must remember that Mr Giovanni Leone, after coming to Longarone to express the solidarity of the Government, which had ceased from the office of President of the Council, assumed the defense of Sade, which bore the terrible responsibility for that catastrophe. [[Applause from Senator Puppato]] Today, to pay tribute to the memory of the victims, I want to make three observations that touch on issues that are still unresolved. The first concerns the predictability of tragedies and the frequent responsibilities of man for their occurrence. Many of the tragedies of the last decades were predictable and thousands of people would not have died, if they had built with caution, kept the territory in order and listened to the alarms. The 160 deaths of Sarno in 1998, the 12 of the Camping of Soverato in 2000, the 8 deaths of Genoa in 2011, which followed the 44 of 1970, the 36 of Messina in 2009, the 308 deaths of L'Aquila are not only victims of bad weather or earthquake. Most of them were killed by bad public works, untame hydrogeological failure, lack of maintenance, houses built in danger, reinforced concrete kneaded with sand. And this only to remain to the most recent calamities, because also the terrible flood of Florence of 1966 multiplied its destructive effects, caused 34 deaths and incalculable damage to the artistic heritage of the city, for lack of prevention and for man's errors. As the tragedy of Vajont teaches us, it often happens to our Italy that our actions determine the madness of the effects of natural phenomena. The second observation concerns the ways in which the great public works are carried out in our country. From a purely engineering point of view the Vajont dam was well designed and well made: good materials, very high strength structure. Think that on the night of October 9, 1963, the only artifact that resisted the impact was the dam, which carried the objective responsibility of the disaster. Unfortunately, due to intent and fault, an equal competence was not used in the study of the contour elements of the project, in the verification of the correctness of the location, in the control of the safety conditions. Throughout the world large public works are preceded by very substantial investments, often equal to 4 or 5 and even 6% of the total value of the work, in studies and researches on the location and assessment of the environmental and urban impact, on safety conditions, on information (very important) and listening to the populations concerned, on the precise estimate of costs. I don't know how much Italy knows about these vital design precautions and how much you practice them. But I know that if these investigations were carried out, not by EDIS but by the State, the Vajont tragedy would not have occurred. That is the point, a point which is still topical. In 2001, in order to speed up procurement procedures, the famous objective law has led to a lowering of the levels of control and guarantee, concentrating in the figure of the general contractor, that is, of a large construction company, all the powers of realization of the great public works: conception, project, direction works, construction. Thus the criterion of rigid separation between the project and its implementation has been reversed, with the consequence that now the project has to bend to the economic needs of the enterprise and not vice versa, as the international experience and prudence would like. In 1963, the artist, SADE, actually managed the entire design and construction process of the dam, causing the State to act as an inert spectator. Today with the objective law it is the law itself that assigns all the powers to the company owner of the yards. The third observation - and I have finished - concerns the progressive decline of the state's technical bodies. In France, Germany, the United Kingdom and also in Spain great moments of political crisis have been overcome with dignity and effectiveness because it has governed the apparatus of the State, it has governed the public administration. In Italy in recent decades the degradation of public structures has invested heavily almost all the public technical bodies: the technical offices of the great Municipalities, the Regions and even, unfortunately, those of the State. Despite the seriousness of many behaviors, beginning with the approval of the Vajont dam project, in Italy the Administration of Public Works with its offices of the Civil Genio has in the past been a place of great authority. Then the decadence began. Let us remember that in just five years, from 2001 to 2006, at the Higher Council of Public Works, five presidents have been changed, always according to the whimsical decisions of the politics: The conclusion is that the Board of Governors has been severely downgraded. We must be frank in saying that no political power, no majority, however broad and strong, can ever govern a great country without a good and loyal public administration only with the interest of the country. No great public work will ever be safe without the punctual control of the state's technical bodies. The trial that, despite so many silences and reluctances, has condemned those responsible for the tragedy of Vajont has shown how it was precisely the public controls that made the crime feasible. The tragedy of Vajont tells us that behind every building built on the beehive of a torrent, behind every building built with sand in place of cement, behind every poorly maintained, there is often economic speculation, but there is always the decision or omission of a politician and a public technician. In recent days - and today also President Grasso and Minister Orlando have done so - finally, after fifty years, it has been asked forgiveness for the Vajont. The Senate has only one way to apologize: to pass good laws. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u28	This concludes the interventions for the commemoration of the Vajont disaster.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u29	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 17 October. This week's sessions will be devoted mainly to the discussion of the decree-law on public administration and the decree-law on gender and security violence, which is being examined in the Chamber of Deputies. For the examination of the latter measure, due to expire on 15 October, a sitting is scheduled - if necessary - in addition to Friday's sitting, which will also take place on Monday afternoon 14. In the afternoon session of tomorrow, for which no closing hours are scheduled, the Assembly will examine, in conjunction with the Chamber of Deputies, the Update Note to the 2013 Economic and Financial Document. The information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the Italian Presidency of the European Union, already scheduled for the afternoon sitting on Thursday, is postponed to another date. Next week's calendar also provides, starting from the afternoon session on Tuesday 15 October, the possible follow-up of the decree-law on public administration. The information of the Minister for Constitutional Reforms on the final report of the Committee on Constitutional Reforms, as well as the second Senate resolution on the draft Constitutional Act establishing the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms, will follow. A joint debate will take place on the two issues. The ratification of the Albania, Greece and Italy Agreement on the project "Trans Adriatic Pipeline" and the Ghedini motion on the process of democratization in Myanmar will also be discussed. In the afternoon of Thursday 17 October, at 4 p.m., the Minister for Territorial Cohesion will reply to immediate questions under Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure. At the opening of the afternoon session of Thursday 10 October and the afternoon of Tuesday 15 will be remembered respectively the bicentenary of the birth of Giuseppe Verdi and the figure of Senator Carpi.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u30	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting this afternoon, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the programme of the Senate's proceedings until December 2013: - Drawing of Constitutional Law No 813-B - Establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional and Election Reforms (Second Resolution of the Senate) (final vote with the absolute majority of the members of the Senate).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u31	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted amendments to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 17 October 2013 pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Tuesday 8 October pom. h. 16-20,30 - Follow-up to bill No 1015 - Decree-Law No 101, public administration (It falls on 30 October) - Doc. LVII, n. 1-a - Update note of the 2013 Economy and Finance Document (Wednesday 9, pom.) (*) - Drawing of law no.... - Decree-Law No. 93, violence of gender and security (O transmitted to you in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 15 October) Wednesday 9" ant. h. 9.30-13.30 " " " pom. h. 16 Thursday 10 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16 Friday 11 " ant. h. 9.30 (*) Motions for resolutions on the Update Note should be tabled before the conclusion of the general discussion, amendments to the resolution accepted by the Government within one hour of the opinion being delivered. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No.... (Decree Law No. 93, gender and security violence) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions.]] [[Monday, October 14 pom. h. 16 (if necessary) - Possible follow-up to bill no.... - Decree-Law No. 93, gender and security violence (Events on 15 October) - Follow-up to bill No. 1015 - Decree-Law No. 101, public administration (Events on 30 October) - Information of the Minister for Constitutional Reforms on the final report of the Committee for Constitutional Reforms - Drawing of Constitutional Law No. 813-B - Establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms (Second Resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Drawing of Law No. 884 - Ratifica Agreement Albania, Greece and Italy on the project "Trans Adriatic Pipeline" - Motion No. 149, Ghedini, on the process of democratization in Myanmar Tuesday 15 " ant. h. 9,30 " " " pom. h. 16-20 Wednesday 16 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 17 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 17 October pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1015 (Decree-Law No 101, Public Administration) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 37' PdL 1 h. 26' M5S 59' SCp 39' LN-Aut 37' Mixed 37' GAL 33' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 33' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, No 1-a (DEF update note) (6 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 30' Minority Rapporteur 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 4 hours, of which: PD 55' PdL 49' M5S 34' SCp 22' LN-Aut 21' Mixed 21' GAL 19' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 19' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 93, gender and security violence) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 09' PdL 1 h. 01' M5S 42' SCP 28' LN-Aut 26' Mixed 26' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u32	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1015. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 3 October the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinions expressed by the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u33	The first standing Commission, which has examined the draft law in its capacity, expresses, as far as it is competent, a non-obstacle opinion, noting that the provisions of Article 10 relating to the functions and tasks assigned to the Agency for Territorial Cohesion are liable to affect the constitutionally recognised competences of the regions and local authorities. Having also examined the relevant amendments, it shall, as far as its competence is concerned, express an opinion which is not precluded. - the resources allocated to the AGAA under paragraph 13 of Article 2 for the recruitment of staff do not deprive ISMEA of the possibility of carrying out the functions of institution fully; In relation to article 4, paragraph 9, the contrary opinion is conditioned, pursuant to article 81 of the Constitution, to the following amendment: "After the words: "in compliance with the financial constraints provided for by the legislation in force in the matter" add the following: "and, in particular, the maximum limits of the annual expenditure for the conclusion of the fixed-term contracts provided for in article 9, paragraph 28, of Decree-Law No 78 of 31 May 2010, converted, with amendments, by law 30 July 2010, n. 122". In this respect it is also noted that it remains to be clarified how the trend data for the drawing up of the budget are constructed, since the rule does not appear to comply with the principles laid down by the Law of Accounting. The non-obstacle opinion on paragraph 10 of Article 11 is conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the inclusion of a clause of non-variance of charges. - Article 2 (1) (a) (5) does not amount to an extension of the powers conferred on the first and second subparagraphs of Article 6 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; - Article 2 (1) (a) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; - Article 2 (1) (a) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; - Article 2 (1) (a) (5) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; - Article 2 (1) (c) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; - Article 2 (1) (c) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; - Article 2 (1) (c) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; - Article 2 (1) (c) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; - Article 2 (1) (c) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; - Article 2 (1) (c) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; - Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; - Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; The opinion shall remain suspended on Article 3 (b). The Economic and Budget Planning Commission, which has been examined, as far as it is competent, the amendments relating to the draft law in title, expresses, with regard to the amendments to Article 1, an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution on amendments 1.8 (text 2), 1.9, 1.10, 1.302, 1.16, 1.17, 1.18,1.303, 1301,1.0.1, 1.5 (text 2), 1.6 (text 2), 1.7, 1.22 and 1.4. The opinion is of simple opposition to proposal 1.23 (text 2). The opinion is without prejudice to the remaining amendments to the same Article. With regard to the amendments to Article 2, the opinion is opposed, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to the proposals 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.7, 2.13, 2.14, 2.16 (text 2), 2.19, 2.20, 2.21, 2.27 (text 2), 2.28 (text 2), 2.29, 2.30, 2.33, 2.35, 2.35, 2.36, 2.36, 2.37 (text 2), 2.40 (text 2), 2.45, 2.46, 2.47, 2.50, 2.60, 2.64, 2.66, 2.67, 2.69, 2.70, 2.71, 2.72, 2.74, 2.75, 2.77, 2.301, 2.302, 2.303, 2.304, 2.307, 2.0300, 2.10, 2.11, 2.22, 2.49, 2.68, 2.73, 2.80, 2.20, 2.308, 2.23, 2.24, 2.58, 2.34 (text 2)/100, 2.43, 2.44, 2.100, 2.70, 2.26, 21000 (limited to letter a) and paragraph 13-a) and 2.309. The opinion is void on all remaining amendments to Article 2 and remains suspended on Amendments 2.68 (text 2), 2.71 (text 2) and 2.306. The opinion shall be suspended on all amendments to Article 3. With regard to Article 4, the opinion is opposed, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to Amendments 4.20 (text 2), 4.21, 4.33, 4.34, 4.46, 4.52, 4.54, 4.56, 4.59, 4.60 (text 3), 4.61, 4.64, 4.66, 4.70, 4.72, 4.80 (text 2), 4.81, 4.82, 4.85, 4.86, 4.86, 4.96, 4.20, 4.11, 4.11, 4.13, 4.14, 4.318, 4.319, 4.320, 4.323, 4.350, 4.45, 4.0.8, 4.0.9, 4.305, 4.306, 4.308, 4.309, 4.310, 4.311, 4.312, 4.313, 4.314, 4.319, 4.323 and 4.350, 4.45, 4.51 (text 3), 4.58, 4.58 (text 2), identical to 4600, 4.71, 4.94, 4.95, 4.14, 4.104, 4.121 (text 2), 4.1323, 4.503, 4.011 (text 2), 4.08, 4.58 (text 2), 4.01000, 4.30 and relative 4,416 subem, 4,310 and 4,310 and 4,10 and 4,10 (subject to 4,15), 4,3,000 and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 thousand and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4, with 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,10 and 4,10 and 4,10 and 4,10 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and 4,1 and The opinion of simple opposition to Amendments 4,125 and 4,127 is conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the introduction of a clause of non-variance of charges. Finally, on Amendment 4,97 the opinion of null and void is conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the introduction of a clause of non-variance of charges. The opinion on amendments 4.48 (text 2), 4.76, 4.102, 4.78, 4.133, 4.25, 4.26, 4.47 (analogue to 4.49 and 4.50), 4.53, 4.67 (text 2), 4.68 (text 2), 4.69 (text 2), 4.90 (text 2), 4100, 4.109, 4.114, 4.502, 4.504, 4.307, 4,500 (text 2) and their sub-amendments, 4,500 (text 3), 4.550, 4.01000/100, 4.0,500 and 4.505 remains suspended. The opinion is without prejudice to the remaining amendments to Article 4. The opinion is also suspended on all amendments relating to Article 5b.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u34	This is a very detailed opinion, so I ask the rapporteur how he intends to proceed and whether he needs time for his assessment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u35	Madam President, I believe that a suspension should be requested in order to carry out a review of this decision of the Budget Commission. I would also like to announce the withdrawal of Amendment 9,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u36	I imagine you intend to ask for a postponement until tomorrow morning, since it would be inappropriate to keep the House waiting for a job that takes some time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u37	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. I think it is appropriate to postpone until tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u40	BRUNO (PdL). Madam President, the first Commission will certainly meet, although informally to fully understand what is left and to try to understand how the text will be amended. Without wishing to invade the right and power of the other Commissions, I would ask the President of the 5th Commission, if he considers it appropriate, to meet, if possible, even immediately, in order to have the opinion - I am not saying this evening - on the whole measure. I think it is right that colleagues, in addition to us who have worked on it, have made clear what the Budget Commission will decide to maintain of this text, and then settle for the final vote. Therefore, I believe that this effort, which I think colleagues in the Budget Committee can make today or tomorrow morning, can then allow a much more facilitated continuation of our work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u41	Sounds like a legitimate request to me. Of course for the Budget Committee it also depends on the fact that the Government on some points had to consider some rewording assumptions that it has still reserved to provide.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u44	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, at the last sitting on the agenda, I asked the Government and the Commission to be clear about the continuation of our work in this House. I think colleagues will remember that very well. As I pointed out at that meeting, having participated in the Conference of Leaders, I felt that there were problems with the original text and consequently also with regard to the relevant amendments. Mr Gasparri was presiding over, and I saw him partly concerned. The Government, with some wisdom, replied to me that they had handed over all the documents to the Commission and therefore there was no problem. Now, I believe that if a member of this House asks - I made this premise then, outside of the political controversy, as I do today - for clarification because he has doubts about the material on which we are working, perhaps a little attention could be paid to him, as well as a minimum of humility and courtesy. We are now, even today, after the answer of the other day that everything was fine and we could proceed with our work, to hear ourselves say that we have to postpone them again because we are not ready. I would like to point out, Madam President, that, having spoken with my colleagues from the relevant Commissions (and I believe that Senator Bruno's intervention has been partly clarifying), it appears that the Government has submitted documents late and very centenary and has not yet made certain parts of the measure clear. In conclusion, Madam President, when a government continues to call for the change of parliamentary regulations to obtain preferential lanes, it should be able to prepare the measures in a capable and complete manner, otherwise it is useless to constantly ask for a change of regulations and the adoption of preferential lanes if you do not know how to write the laws, because it becomes a mockery for colleagues and for themselves. After that - I saw a service yesterday and I say it with sympathy to the Minister - I hope at least that the minister responsible for this measure is the one who is now sitting in the Chamber, because I have heard that he is not competent on many things. Let this position also be final on the part of the Presidency with regard to the Government, which must put the Commissions and the Assembly in a position to work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u47	FALANGA (PdL). Madam President, in a few hours' time or perhaps tomorrow the measure on combating gender violence fired by the House, the so-called decree-law on feminicide, should arrive. This decree will expire in the next few days (it seems to me 15 or 16 October), so we will have no more than 3-4 days to examine it. I believe that the lack of coordination between the presidencies of the two Chambers makes that perfect bicameralism that we live and which is inherent in our form of government fail. Therefore, it would be appropriate - and I would also urge this Presidency - to avoid, in future, a provision for the conversion into law of a decree-law being held in a branch of Parliament for most of the time in order to avoid its decline, after the deadline laid down by law. This, I repeat, is a consequence that compromises bicameralism. But there is also another problem, which is dictated by our order of business, which, due to this delay (due to the fact that the provision must be inserted) must, in any case, compromise the examination of equally important laws, which a part of the country is waiting for. I would therefore urge you, Madam President, to start in future, as President of the Senate, a different, more correct cooperation with the President of the House in order to establish the smoothest possible course of work, in accordance with the constitutional rules in force.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u48	Thank you. I believe that bicameralism is already being questioned enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u51	MARINO Luigi (SCPI). Madam President, I would like to try to clarify the relationship between the 5th Commission and the House in relation to this text. The 5th Commission has examined at several sessions the full text of the measure and the amendments tabled in the Committees on the merits and in the Chamber and has reached the decisions which have been read here by the Senator Secretary with regard to Article 1 and its amendments, Article 2 and Article 4, which, I must say, was also the most comprehensive from the point of view of the amendments. He also decided to suspend the examination of Article 3, as the Government has repeatedly asked for a rewording of the current text provided for in the Decree-Law: so he decided to suspend it pending examination of the text that should come from the Government. Finally, at the end of this Assembly meeting, it planned to reconvene for the conclusion of the examination of all the amendments by tomorrow morning and then to submit to the Assembly, at tomorrow's afternoon meeting, its opinion on all the amendments relating to the 12 articles of the measure. I therefore do not understand why we have to suspend the debate and vote on the amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 4. We can frankly deal with them, just as we have done on other occasions for other measures. By the way, we could certainly deal with Articles 1 and 2, if we wanted to proceed consecutively, and stop there or, skip Article 3, move to Article 4. I do not believe that this involves unbalanced examination of the measure: Article 1 does not relate to Article 4, so we can continue our work, run out, and resume tomorrow morning with the final adoption of the amendments and the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u54	LO MORO (PD). Madam President, I think it is appropriate to speak, particularly after Senator Marino has spoken, in order to support the rapporteur's request and also that of my colleagues who have requested that the sitting be adjourned on another date, and to say that it is necessary to understand the impact of the opinion on the measure. The truly sincere but pressing wish is to arrive at this House only when we have the full opinions of the 1st and 5th Commission, which cover all the articles, in order to avoid such discussions. On this measure, among other things, there is a expectation that it is not only ours to complete the process in order to arrive at a definition, but it is of the country, of which we must have great respect; therefore we must arrive in the Chamber with clear ideas and then, with knowledge of the cause, determine ourselves on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u57	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Madam President, I am aware of the speeches that have been made before me that my position may be a minority, but I do not give up on expressing it fully. We are faced with the conversion of a decree-law that will expire at the end of the month. The timetable for this House's work is very tight, so I think the more work we can do, the better. Senator Luigi Marino is right in saying that it is an overall measure that deals, in the various articles, procedures and completely different problems. We have the means to move forward, so my proposal and that of my Group is to move forward with the examination of the amendments that can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u60	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Madam President, I think it is clear that this measure has its heart in Articles 3 and 4. At this point, I think it is clear, if we do not want to make tactics, that the debate must be suspended in order to make an analysis of the opinion of the 5th and to understand its implications on these which are the main articles of the measure, in order to an overall assessment of the decree. I therefore insist, as far as I am concerned, on requesting the suspension of work and referral back to the sitting tomorrow morning. I would also like to take this opportunity to withdraw Amendment 8,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u63	Mr D'ALIA, Minister for Public Administration and Simplification. Madam President, of course, the Government can express an opinion on the observations and opinions of the Budget Commission in relation to the text of the decree and not to the amendments, and that is what we are responding to. The observations, conditions and objections which the Budget Committee has addressed, from the point of view of the Government, are all objectively admissible, except for the opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution on paragraphs 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Article 10 and apart from what concerns the suspension of the examination of Article 3, because we have already sent the Commission a rewording of the text, as we have been asked for. For the rest, these are all acceptable observations, which we considered to be objectively already included in the text, from the point of view of financial invariance, but we have no difficulty in rewording these parts, in accordance with the opinion of the Commission, on which, Senator Volpi, the Government has provided all the necessary comments. The issue seems to me to be a bit complex with regard to the amendments tabled. So the rapporteur has made a very timely request, because it is right for Parliament to examine, deepen and amend the text and to make a check on what was proposed in the amendment by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and on the comments and remarks made by the Budget Commission. With regard to this aspect, it is clear that we adhere to the request for suspension made by the rapporteur, because it is right that the Government should also be able to understand what are the proposals for amending the decree-law that can go on, with reference to the consensus between the parliamentary groups, and those that will be withdrawn. With regard to the comments concerning the Government text, we are ready to reformulate the rules in question according to the requirements and indications of the Budget Commission and we already have the counter-proposals ready: so, as far as we are concerned, we can go on this path.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u66	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr D'Alia for his explanations, also because, for his part, he followed what concerned him with great care and dedication. There is, however, one problem: we are not only dealing with a problem of amendments here. There are articles and paragraphs of the decree-law that are clearly discovered, and the Budget Committee is making fatal leaps in order to be able to give an indication to the Government on how to make reformulations that make them financially covered. I therefore ask myself one thing: the decree-law, before being submitted to the signature of the President of the Republic, should be boiled by the General Accounting Office of the State. If the measure was covered when he went there, I don't understand why it isn't now. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Endrizzi.]] Just read the provision to understand that someone has stamped with closed eyes, perhaps because when you have the same origin, as Minister and as Accountant, in the end you close your eyes a bit with the slices of salami of the Bank of Italy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] With regard to the chapter on the amendments, we have adopted a number of them in the Commission and, after a careful analysis rightly carried out by the Budget Commission, most of those amendments appear to be discovered in the same way. The problem is that they are not the result of the work or signature of my fellow senators, but they are amendments brought by the various ministers and have the senators sign them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Endrizzi]] in order not to attach the technical report and therefore justify the cover. I think it is humiliating to have, as my colleague Senator Falanga recalled, to face a very important decree-law such as that on feminicide. I think it is equally regrettable to have to deal, in the same decree, with the problem of the Provinces that of Civil Protection. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] I don't know - and I say this as a joke, no one wants me to - if the Provinces have been placed within the decree because they are of a female gender: it is the only explanation I can give to make such a decree-law! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u67	Only the Provinces don't kill them.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u68	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). But when in the informal Commission - and I thank President Finocchiaro for the patience he put in examining this measure - there are seven senators and nineteen officials of the Ministries, I smell every amendment that passes, because everyone has a name and a surname. It is truly shameful that the Senate should write the decrees-laws in the House for the Government. I'm not mad at you, Minister, because I know how much time you've lost to us, but, for the rest, it's a real piece of shit. [[Applause from the LNP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u69	Well, I think the debate can be postponed until tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u72	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, on behalf of my Group, I would like to point out that, given the very high number of opinions contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution that individual amendments or even whole articles of the measure have received from the 5th Commission, it would at least be an act of seriousness on the part of the Government to depart from this decree - reads all the articles that have received, in fact, an opinion contrary to Article 81. Even greater seriousness would be to withdraw the whole measure, because it is clear that there is a complete cover. So we are wondering how such a measure could come to this House under these conditions. Our request, given that there is time, is for this measure to be withdrawn and for a decent text to be presented. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u73	The Commission will assess this, Senator Martelli. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u76	MUSSINI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that for a few days now, following the disastrous shipwreck of October 3rd in front of the shores of the island of Lampedusa, it has been opened by unknown people on the social network Facebook, a group entitled "Lampedusa terra di mezzo." Let's expropriate it to the Lampedusans. It is a shameful Facebook page, because in this group are hosted numerous posts and messages that contain very serious insults and offensive and racist statements, dictated by racial hatred and even praiseworthy to the figure of Hitler, with images, words, words and memories of genocide. An article in the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" reported the existence of this group and this page on the social network and defined it as "the page of shame," stating that many Facebook users had reported to those responsible the presence of incorrect content on that page, receiving as an answer that it does not incite to hatred. Consequently, it was not closed or removed. Now, I don't want to go into detail about the story that this Facebook page was about. I would like to ask, however, since we are also making an important reflection both with the bill on homophobia (which is in the House), and with the bill on negationism (which is in the Commission on Justice), that a profound reflection be made on the relationship between freedom of thought - the just and correct affirmation of freedom of thought - the identification of forms of protection compared to what happens on social networks, really seeking, in the Commission on Justice, to evaluate the issue with accuracy, so as not to exceed the impossibility of uttering one's own thought, but also to ensure that it is possible to offend human dignity in this way. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u79	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, from journalistic sources it is learned that the Letta Government is studying a form of regulation of the bathing state property concessions that provides for the division of the beach into two distinct realities: on the one hand the beach (umbrellas, deck chairs, etc.) and on the other the area in front, (the area services with cabins, showers and so on). The issue is that of the turning point - or supposedly such - in the war that the beaches are making at risk auctions dictated by the so-called Bolkestein directive. Practically it would happen that, on the one hand, the plant would be sold to the dealer, who would become - in fact - owner of the actual structure of the bathroom; on the other hand, the beach would go to auction. I mean, it's hard not to guess who this auction is going to be. Is the government studying a measure not to displease the bathing class? It is irregular and ethically reprehensible that the State abdicates to its rights by selling out portions of valuable territory, and it is absurd to privatise access to the sea. This is also stated in Article 9 of our Constitution: "The Republic protects the landscape of the Nation." The investor knew very well what he was doing, but he did not take account of the consequences, also thanks to all those administrators who often shared the same interests. The beach is of all the citizens and not of those who built on it, with the approval of the ASL or mayor of turn, in spite of the regional directive expressing itself on the removal of the structures themselves. It makes us ashamed that you make rag paper of the rules at your own use and consumption. Finally, the Region of Tuscany (my land), a few weeks ago, modified the concept of easy removal, changing the times from 48 hours to 90 days, practically certifying that all the establishments are easy to remove, even those with swimming pools, playgrounds, discos and apartments. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Those who received a concession knew that they were entitled to a concession and not to sign a purchase contract. This dreaded provision must not pass. Absolutely! There was and there was a prevailing regulation - I am referring to that of the Navigation Code - which regulates the matter, and that should be respected. The rebirth of Italy passes also and above all through a just and fair valorization of the common good. We want all citizens to have the opportunity to contribute to the wealth of their own country and not just the usual privileged holders of position rents that have been handed down from father to son, son, son, forever. We are in a system of law: it is good to remember that. Signed: 5 Star citizens of the various Meetup and 5 Star Movement of Tuscany. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u82	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Madam President, I would like to draw this House's attention to a situation which deserves particular attention, at least because of the significant role that our President Grasso has played up to months ago. I'm sorry you're not here. Personally I have had the opportunity to appreciate him as a national anti-Mafia prosecutor and I have sincerely admired what he has done in these long years of fighting organised crime by our country. Paradoxically, in this particular historical moment, in which a former magistrate, an anti-Mafia prosecutor, is in charge of the second office of the State, we live the impasse of a Commission anti-Mafia ghost, just when there would be more need. I would ask you, Mr Lanzillotta, to speak for me on behalf of the President: you would expect the President of the Senate to take a public position which would call for the importance of this parliamentary body and invite you to overcome disputes of any kind. It is worth the credibility of this House, of those who make it up and - no doubt - of those who chair it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u83	Senator Di Biagio, I assure you that I will represent your demands, but I would point out that, as you know, the Presidents of the Chambers - and President Grasso in particular - have repeatedly urged the Groups, which are responsible for the failure to set up many Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u86	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the floor briefly to bring to the attention of this House and the Government the difficult situation of some workers from the so-called out-of-the-box staff who were employed up to a year and a half ago in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The personnel outside the sector are very valuable human resources coming from other administrations (such as the Agency of Revenues, Universities and Local Authorities), which have returned to the administrations of belonging, as a result of the linear cut of 10% of the financial envelopes for remodulating expenses arranged in article 2, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law 31 May 2010, n. 78. Of the 132 people, much has been reinstated. (Brusio). I'm sorry, ma'am. I can't talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, you should allow Senator Blondo to perform his intervention. The senators who want can leave the Chamber, because after these speeches we will have no other commitments. BLUNDO (M5S). Thank you. I said that, of the 132 people, a large part was reinstated in the Council Presidency, through the conclusion of agreements with its own administrations for the allocation of economic treatment. Some twenty of them, who returned to the administration of their place of residence, did not have precise tasks and tasks, due to the absence of a serious and effective plan for the allocation of roles within the bodies of their place of residence. These cuts, therefore, have not produced significant savings in expenditure, but have caused the loss of the working identity of these people who, after many years of honored service, have suffered and suffer heavy economic and psychological repercussions. What credibility does our country have for such human resources management? The employee who has served for a considerable number of years in a public structure acquires skills and professionalism. There is talk of meritocracy and ability, it is claimed that those who hold certain positions possess experience and competence, but then? How is it possible that what is being preached is not put into practice? How is it possible for those who are involved in the better management of human resources, in the interests of the citizens, to take unintelligible and unfair measures against some workers? I call for the government to act as quickly as possible, supporting the demands of these workers and the request for reinstatement of the Presidency of the Council, as was the case with other workers, in order to restore the principle of equality which should be the basis of a civil and democratic state. Above all, I would ask the Government to shed light on the behaviour of those who are involved in taking measures that affect the legal sphere of public personnel and the logics that support those same measures. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u89	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you today of the disappearance of a great protagonist of Italian culture and cinema, Carlo Lizzani, who has failed. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] He has been able to tell and testify throughout his career the values that have emerged from the Resistance. He has been able to teach us, that we work in cinema, a language with which we can tell through the documentary our reality, but not only: he has also been able to make great films of genre, as a skilled narrator, always remaining halfway between entertainment and social reflection in the contexts in which his stories were set. I think the only way to honor him is to remain faithful to the great legacy he left us with the movie "Achtung"! Banditi! and his desire to protect and inspire everyone to defend the freedom of our Italy. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u90	The Presidency, and I believe that all Members are associated with the mourning for the dramatic loss of a great film artist.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u91	I would like to say goodbye to the students of the Riccia State Institute, in the province of Campobasso, who are following our work today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u92	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-119.ana.u93	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 9 October, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 6.50 p.m.
