ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 20 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u4	SANTANGELO. Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:43 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with her the whole Assembly]] Senators and senators, died in the late evening of yesterday in Rome, at the age of 93, the life-senator Emilio Colombo, protagonist of the Italian political life of the post-war period and authoritative member of this Assembly. Member of the Constitutional Assembly, leading member of the Christian Democracy, Emilio Colombo was President of the Council, several times Minister and President of the European Parliament. Appointed senator for life in 2003 by President Ciampi, Senator Colombo was interim president of the Senate Assembly during the first two sessions of our legislature. His figure will be solemnly commemorated by the Senate in a special and next session. We should soon have presented his book "For Italy, for Europe" in the Zuccari room. Unfortunately, we will do it without him, but in memory of his extraordinary figure. In expressing the condolences of the Presidency and of the whole Senate, I invite the Assembly to observe one minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00037 by Senator Tomaselli and other senators, and 1-00071 by Senator Compagnone and other senators, on the Adriatic rail corridor. I would remind you that in the afternoon sitting on 20 June, following the explanations of the motions and agenda for the G1 and the general debate, the Assembly decided to postpone the debate. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government, to whom I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions and the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u10	Madam President, I would like to thank the senators, especially the proposed senators. As the debate has shown, this is one of the priority issues for the government. It certainly deserves, as has been said (and we commit ourselves to this), a maximum attention and an in-depth and comprehensive analysis of the general picture, with a vision of the infrastructural works that serve Italy. It is not conceivable, in fact, nor imaginable the development of our Country out of interconnections with networks and corridors that must support, with appropriate logistics, the imposing flows of traffic people, goods and services and, together with these, also the economies and territorial and social cohesion in our Country, between the European States and with the systems of other neighbouring countries. As regards the basic choices, as Mr Lupi also had the opportunity to assure in the Commission, no Italian Region can remain and will remain behind. In particular, the theme of cooperation between the Adriatic regions has been put to the attention at ministerial and government level since the 1990s, when the Adriatic Ionian Initiative was established between Italy and the countries of the Western Balkans. With this new macro-regional approach, developed mainly over the last few years, economic and cultural cooperation has gained considerable importance, thanks above all to the commitment of the Italian Adriatic Regions, who believed and bet on the opportunities offered by the changed geopolitical reality of the Western Balkans already at the end of the nineties. From this perspective, territorial cooperation projects, which are also supported by European cohesion policy, represent an unmissable opportunity to recover existing differences and imbalances and to accompany the policy of economic recovery and employment growth. The next financial programming 2014-2020 at European level therefore opens up a new strategic chapter in territorial cooperation and represents an opportunity that the Government obviously intends to seize fully and promptly. On the basis of the conclusions of the European Council of 7 and 8 February, the new European instrument for financing TEN-T infrastructure, called the Connecting Europe Facility, assumes the financial dimension of EUR 29.2 billion. This sum is allocated as follows: EUR 23.1 billion for transport, of which EUR 10 billion for cohesion funds; EUR 1 billion for telecommunications; EUR 5.1 billion for energy. Despite the reduction of the financial envelope of the Connecting Europe Facility, with risks also relating to the possibility of funding to the maximum extent provided for in the Regulation, we believe that there are still all the conditions for establishing a priority network that meets the ambitious requirements set out in the Guidelines and programming. For this reason, within the co-decision process on the new regulations relating to the TEN-T networks, the Ministry for Infrastructures and Transport has become promoter of numerous initiatives in order to support the extension of the Baltic-Adriatic corridor towards South, along the Adriatic coast, asking the inclusion of the Adriatic railway line in the central net (the core net), for its meaning of connection of the harbour system and of complementarity in the flows of transport goods between North and South along the Adriatic dorsal. Partial successes have already been achieved. In fact, at present, the section between Trieste and Ravenna, as part of the Baltic-Adriatic corridor, belongs to the central network, as well as the railway section Bologna-Ancona, which is part of the corridor Helsinki-La Valletta, and the section Naples-Bari-Taranto. On the other hand, the section south of Ancona, up to Foggia, is included in the comprehensive TEN-T network, i.e. in the global network, as well as the section from Bari to Lecce. The issue of including the entire route of the Adriatic coastline has been addressed on numerous occasions since the bilateral meeting held in Brussels on 6 May 2011. Subsequently, the request was put forward at the European Council meetings on 19 April, 4 May and 7 June 2012. The outcome of the negotiations has so far failed to achieve full integration of the Adriatic rail line into the central network as the rigorous European methodology does not allow the connection of priority nodes within the central network through network branches with parallel paths between them, as is the case in this case between the high-speed/high-capacity central backbone and the Adriatic line. The inclusion of the Adriatic line in the central network and, specifically, in the Ancona-Foggia section would have determined, for the above mentioned criterion, the exclusion of the cross section Bari-Naples that connects the Bari node to the central dorsal and belongs to the priority corridor Helsinki-La Valletta and therefore to the core network, while the Bari-Lecce section as a connection of a core node, that of Bari, with a node not having the characteristics of priority node, Lecce, is not included in the central network and, consequently, in a priority corridor. In conclusion, compared to the entire route of the Milan-Lecce line, the sections between Ancona and Foggia and between Bari and Lecce are, to date, included in the comprehensive TEN-T network, the global network, and can therefore contribute to the obtaining of Community contributions, even to the extent of 5% of the funds available, as well as to the use of innovative financial instruments such as the project bonds foreseen in the next programming. A strategy for the growth of production districts allows for greater articulation between the various instruments of intervention available to the European Union, beyond the mere appropriations allocated to cohesion policy. This applies, in particular, to the European Investment Bank which, with the necessary guarantees, can also be opened up to regional realities and, above all, to macro-regional realities. Despite, therefore, the Adriatic dorsal does not appear in full in the TEN-T core network, it can be affirmed that the Italian priority ports that overlook the Adriatic coast are connected to the aforementioned corridors, and precisely Trieste-Venezia-Ravenna, through the Baltic-Adriatic corridor, Ancona-Naples-Gioia Tauro-Bari-Taranto through the Helsinki-La Valletta corridor. Our commitment is to promote the integration of the urban centres of the national Adriatic ports within this corridor, using the opportunities offered by the new TEN-T regulations in the process of approval that leave open the possibility to carry out periodic revisions - the first, at the moment, is fixed to 2023 - of the transport networks of European importance. There are therefore the premises so that the European programming of the next framework program assures the financial support to the investments that will be considered compatible with the current situation of budget and that they are turned to give implementation to the potentialities expressed from the harbour system and interportuale Adriatico-Ionico, that it plays a strategic role, important for the supplying and the access to the foreign markets not only of the regions that overlook the Adriatic sea but of all the Mediterranean and the Middle East. Of course we are committed to a table between Ministries, Regions and Railways to try to bring home the best possible result. As far as motions are concerned, I am ready for the vote. All I ask is that Senator Companione withdraw motion No 71, of which he is the first signatory. The Government considers it inappropriate, at this time, to address sensitive issues, so vast and problematic, that they must be included in a more complex and wide-ranging debate, covering the entire planning of the infrastructure of our South. That is the only reason why we are calling for the motion to be withdrawn in order to postpone the debate at another time so that it can be carried out much more in depth.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u11	Mr. Undersecretary, can you also express the Government's opinion on motion No. 37, first signed by Tomaselli, and then on the agenda G1, first signed by Razzi?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u12	As regards the motion Tomaselli and others, with reference to the first commitment of the Government, namely that, in view of the approval of the Adriatic-Ionian macro-region, to take every initiative in Europe to promote the extension of the Baltic-Adriatic corridor (no. 1) along the director Ancona-Pescara-Bari-Taranto-Lecce, which constitutes a strategic element between the different productive poles and the harbour areas of the Adriatic, able to render Italy the center of gravity of the commercial traffics between the East and the West, as well as between the Countries of the Europe North and the new economies that face the Mediterranean, the opinion of the Government is favorable. With regard to the second commitment, the Government is in favour, where, after the words are inserted, it is necessary to identify the measures necessary to ensure an adequate programming in favour of projects directed to the modernization of the railway line of the Adriatic ridge, with particular reference to the director Milan-Lecce, in consideration of the programming of the resources of the EU for the period 2014-2020, the following: - within the framework of the Community funds that will be made available for the policies of transport, (then continuing with: - and in view of the forthcoming approval of the Adriatic-Ionian macro-regional tract). With regard to the agenda G1, by Senator Razzi and others, the opinion is in favour of the following reformulation: it commits the Government and in particular the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to verify the conditions for the realization of priority works of adaptation and speed of the Pescara-Rome railway line.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u13	I ask Senator Tomaselli if he intends to accept the request for the reformulation of the second point of the motion of which he is the first signatory.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u14	Yes, Madam President, I welcome the rewording proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u15	I ask Senator Razzi if he will accept the reformulation of the agenda of which he is the first signatory, proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u16	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u17	I ask Senator Compagnone if he intends to accept the request for the withdrawal of motion No 71 of which he is the first signatory, made by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u18	Madam President, we take note of the Government's desire to re-examine in the broader and more comprehensive context the problem we have posed. I would just like to mention what was written on page 56 of the report that Minister Lupi filed at the hearing at 8a. Commission: The objective that I intend to pursue is to avoid that in the country there are services of series A and of series B, there are, even worse, territorial areas of series A and series B. This is written by Minister Lupi, who previously stated on page 44: The "right to mobility" provided for in Article 16 of the Constitution is a key objective of the Government. We hope that the will expressed today by the Government and what the Minister wrote in this text will be consequential and that, shortly, a serious debate can be opened and completed to decide for a good time what Italy wants to do in this part of its own country, Sicily, where there are 5 million inhabitants who are called Italians, but that we should decide whether to let them stay in Italy and in Europe or not. I hope that this debate can be addressed in a calm and accomplished way in this House, so that once and for all we can decide what to do to promote the development of this land and not continue to think of assisting it and then complain about it. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u19	So you withdraw the motion at your first signature? COMPAGNONE (GAL). Yeah, I'll pick it up.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u20	We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 37 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u23	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Madam President, I declare the LAG Group's vote in favour of motion No 37 in the reworded text.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u26	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, Senators and Senators, the withdrawal of the first-signed motion by Senator Companione facilitates me in the task of giving an extremely cutting-edge judgment on the proposals contained in it. Obviously, the electoral pronunciation of the people directly interested in that wretched proposal of the bridge on the Strait of Messina in recent days and hours has responded in an inescapable and absolutely clear way to the consideration that - as we have always supported - interventions corresponding to the needs of the people in relation to the problem of mobility and the right that they have in a democratic state cannot be linked. This right does not, in fact, provide for the A and B series populations. The populations concerned, therefore, have manifested not only their discomfort, but also their orientation. I therefore believe that we must talk about serious matters, leaving behind a logic that risks being contained also in the act of which Senator Tomaselli is the first signatory, which obviously has another system, but which still suffers from an approach that has the reference in the Moloch of the great works. Senators and senators, we have to understand this, because I believe that in the next few days we will have to have a strong passion for the decree called "do" and check whether this too (as it would seem from the first information obtained) has as its orientation to confirm an approach that has frozen (and risks continuing to freeze) important resources (and are not endless resources) rather than putting them on the plate for a possible harmonic strategy. It should allow the speed around fundamental backs, which no one discusses, such as that of the transport of passengers and goods (among other things we know how high speed excludes the second horn of the problem), but above all the quality of passenger transport. With regard to this last aspect, if the logic is that of the backs of the high speed we risk to determine the trenches within which the interventions that have manifested themselves (think, for example, of the presentation of the agenda on the modernization of the railway line Pescara-Rome), and the long list of absolutely necessary connections that I could make are not solved at all, indeed the inconveniences are tightened: in fact, not only increase the times of connection to Rome and the Adriatic-Tyrrenic connection, but you risk also to exclude absolutely those territories. In the coming days we really have the opportunity - Minister Lupi has manifested his willingness in the Commission - to reason on a strategic framework of the net first railway and then of the whole system Italy within the Europe system, that it takes into account the dimension of the Adriatic-Ionian macro-region, with the interconnections and the right to mobility along the whole dorsal, also in terms of connection not only with the center of the country but also with the Tyrrhenian dorsal. If we have this at heart, there is all the willingness of Left Ecology and Freedom to reason on this system and on where to allocate the limited resources we have, to determine a virtuous mechanism that our country needs regarding goods and passengers. If not, it would only go back to road transport, as in the current situation. We need clear words, not only in these motions, but also when we discuss the so-called "doing" decree-law. If these trends are confirmed, the logic of highways continues and you get to do worse really, not to do well. The term "doing," if it is not accompanied by a specification, is likely to lead to accentuations: if you wander on hypotheses of highways that connect Rome and Latina, this means doing wrong. This we must, I believe, be able to say with the words that we need, with the responsibilities that this entails: doing something means compromising another. Making a strong investment on the iron and the local transport means making other choices in a situation of very limited resources; it means sending other signals and above all unlocking allocated resources and now stationary where there is no possibility of an adequate and above all fast shipbuilding. You can then open yards even quickly when (as happened with the Rome-Naples-Bari link) you receive consent from not only the local administrations and institutions, but also the citizens and the fabric of the associations sensitive to these issues. In this way we can start to do, and to do well. We really want to give an abstention vote, because we want to leave a door open to the tasks that await us in the next few hours and days, which we will also have to carry out quickly and well. We are at a crossroads: we must give an address that cannot be sliced, sometimes even random as we do with salami. Where there is a representation in the institutions of that particular territory there is also a right need and, where there may be no such representation, reference is made to the agenda, which I agree with on the subject. However, we must understand: it is really important that the Adriatic-Tyrrain link is important, but it is not the only one; we must then have a vision of the whole. I therefore take this opportunity to request, assuring the Group's availability, an immediate and not general comparison in the next few days to reason in these terms. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u29	DAVICO (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, as has clearly emerged in our speech during the debate and, in general, in the other speeches made these days (as well as in those of this morning when we have been calling for the withdrawal of proposals and the re-establishment of others, with all the difficulties that, of course, this entails for the Government), in the awareness of the extraordinary importance of an effective logistic and infrastructural network linking remote regions of Europe that favours the mobility of people and goods and the consequent induced, we cannot hypocritically tell our fellow citizens a story that, although it may appear beautiful, perhaps treats a bit from the book of dreams (and on paper seems to possess all the characteristics to be considered the 'optimum'), in reality is difficult to achieve. In fact, in a socio-economic moment like what we are going through, I would say that it is almost impossible, very difficult to achieve, so much so that it is almost useless to think of certain things. As a member of the Commission, public works, communications, as a representative of the citizens, but above all as a citizen and as an objective observer of the current economic reality, I cannot fail to stress how wrong it can be to put on the table, with the uncertainty and approximation that comes from a motion, from agendas or from documents such as those on our attention this morning, other works such as the one on which we are preparing to express ourselves: a motion, an agenda, interventions in general discussion do not explain to us where the resources necessary to carry out works such as these will be found, if there is the necessary financial coverage and if there is the will to achieve all this. These projects, these great infrastructure works that will change the communication structure of an entire country need extensive programming and visions that the Government should explain to us to give us a way of expressing ourselves and on which we could then intervene. But there is none of this; we are then discussing, proposing, voting on documents on nothing; that is, on great principles, on great ideas and visions beyond to come and that are not concrete and real. It is precisely on this point that they know how obnoxious this can be at a time when it is already difficult to find resources to carry out the already so-called infrastructure, already in the construction phase and waiting for funding and that so much make our mayors, our territories and our fellow citizens unleash because perhaps they have been stuck for years waiting to be refinanced in order to be completed other works that will remain butchers or even those who will remain as skeletons on the backs and on the great directions of our national territory. It seems to us an incorrect operation and that we will leave, however, as a heavy legacy to future generations who will have to take responsibility to complete what has not been completed and to realize what has not been done. When these great works are realized, they will in turn be obsolete. Therefore, with a great sense of responsibility and realism, with our feet on the ground, as we say in our parts, the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group will abstain from voting while recognizing the enormous value of these important communications and these great interventions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u32	IN MAY (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Adriatic is a semi-closed sea and the countries that face it have a common historical root and a homogeneous culture. It is the sea of intimacy, as the Croatian writer Predrag Matvejević calls it, according to which in ancient times those who arrived on its shores were embarrassed: is it a gulf or a sea? These characteristics can only facilitate regional development policies promoted by the European Union. The European macro-regions are now a reality: I am referring to the Baltic macro-region, the Danube macro-region and, indeed, the Adriatic-Ionian macro-region. In December, the European Council formally mandated the European Commission to launch the operational strategy that will lead to the creation of this macro-region in 2014. The appointment of the President of the Marche Region to lead the Adriatic-Ionian Intergroup of the Committee of the Regions of Europe is a significant element in the path of outline of the road map that will lead to the constitution. Moreover, in recent times the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative (IAI), a regional cooperation scheme covering eight countries (Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia, Serbia, Albania, Montenegro and Greece), which was baptized in 2000 with the Ancona Charter and with its operational headquarters in the regional capital, has accelerated the march leading to the macro-region. Ten years later, the geopolitical framework in which the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative operates has changed profoundly; however, the reasons that led to the establishment of the IAI have maintained if not increased their validity over the years. The acceptance of the Balkan countries and Turkey into the European family is a challenge to be grasped and won, if the Union really wants to play a higher profile in the world, if it aims to exert greater influence in the Caucasus, Central Asia, the Middle East and the Mediterranean and if it wants to regain economic competitiveness and ensure energy security. In order to achieve this, we therefore need a European strategy for the Adriatic and Ionian Sea, covering all the countries of the region, in line with the European Union's approach to macro-regions, a philosophy with which Italy fully agrees. In this regard, I would like to recall the recent position taken on 27 May by the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs Marta Dassu, in Brussels, at the 15th meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative: she identified Italy as a priority, with a view to her six-month presidency of the European Union in the second half of 2014, the implementation of the Action Plan for the Adriatic-Ionian Strategy as an instrument to strengthen European cohesion in an area crucial to the stability of the continent as a whole. However, all this must be accompanied, in order to prevent the project from being born monco, by a recovery in the field of the material infrastructures that must include all the sectors: road, rail and maritime. The Government, as is called for in this motion, must put in place all the necessary initiatives to ensure that a continuation of the high-speed route in corridor 1, now stationary in Ancona (according to the amendment voted last December by the Transport Commission of the European Parliament and pending ratification with the final vote of the same), along the Adriatic-Ionian dorsal until reaching Lecce. The extension of corridor 1 could open new scenarios also for the economic districts present along the Adriatic, favoring the import and the export in a larger portion of Europe that seems to suffer less of the economic crisis in existence, with a productive system in expansive phase, making of the Mediterranean and Italy a great logistic platform and the centre of gravity of the commercial traffics between the East and the West. The strengthening and strengthening of the mobility on iron therefore assumes a dual aspect: on the one hand it will allow a service finally adequate for the transport of the passengers; on the other hand, a much faster mobility for the transport of goods. Territorial cohesion in terms of growth and competitiveness would therefore be increased. Through the indispensable adaptation of the railway infrastructure along the director Milan-Lecce will favor also the throw again of an area with high economic potential is regarding various productive poles that for the harbour areas of the Adriatic. Currently the distribution of the traffics in this zone is clearly unbalanced in favor of the transport by road; the realization of the corridor could have as first effect that of the rebalancing of the traffic flows bringing a greater quota of goods towards the railway, modality more friend of the environment regarding the road. However, as mentioned above, the railway axis in question is not an important infrastructure for freight alone, but passenger transport can also benefit greatly from its implementation. Along the route of the Baltic-Adriatic corridor there are numerous urban agglomerations and this could also affect the improvement of tourist flows for all regions affected by corridor 1. The time has come to change culturally the way we do transport: we must invest more on iron, not only because it is the most environmentally sustainable means, but also to avoid the saturation of roads. In the immediate future, we need to invest to increase efficiency; in the medium and long term we need to start a design that, starting from the major European corridors, provides for the extension of the Adriatic and Baltic corridors to the South. Secondly, we need to imagine a national project coordinated with Europe's projects, and then we need to work to get its full recognition and support from it. The Connecting Europe Facility provides for an investment of EUR 31.7 billion to modernise European transport infrastructure, build missing links and remove bottlenecks. This includes EUR 10 billion earmarked in the Cohesion Fund for transport projects in the cohesion countries, while the remaining EUR 21.7 billion was made available to all Member States for investment in transport infrastructure. In addition, priority must be given to certain projects for the enhancement of roads. I refer in particular to two basic guidelines: Livorno-Ancona, with the important infrastructure Fano-Grosseto, and Ancona-Rome. As far as the first work is concerned, Tuscany, Umbria and Marche have signed an agreement for the establishment of a public-private company that realizes it using the innovative method of the availability contract. The European Investment Bank would also contribute to the project and the Ministry of Infrastructure has already said that it is of national interest. In conclusion, Mr Undersecretary, the adaptation and reinforcement of the material infrastructures, be they road, rail or port, would bring considerable benefits in terms of services to the person, to the existing entrepreneurial fabric, to the ability to attract tourist flows and potential new economic activities and an undeniable leap of quality in order to allow many of our Regions, within the plan of the Adriatic-Ionian macro-region, to build a bridge between the Countries of the Mediterranean Sea and the North-Europe. Finally, Mr Undersecretary, a special reminder: I come from Matera, a city that is not absolutely wet by the sea (and I would not like this to be a defect) and that continues to be the last provincial capital not yet reached by the State Railways. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u35	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today's motions for resolutions touch on issues of fundamental importance. With regard to motion 37 (text 2), tabled by Senator Tomaselli, which intervenes on the need for adequate infrastructure of the Adriatic backbone, the point we are controversial is that we are asking for the extension of the Baltic-Adriatic corridor in a context in which the current rail networks are at times dilapidated and sometimes even non-existent. Our doubt is and remains how extraordinary improvements can be planned in the absence of an essential and necessary basic condition. For the above reasons, our intention to vote on this motion cannot be in favour. With regard to motion No 71 tabled by Senator Companione of the LAG Group and now withdrawn, a little clarity should be made. This motion, in fact, connects strangely to the motion of Senator Tomaselli for a large part of the premise in which reference is made to the trans-European transport network to be extended with corridor 1 up to the Bari-Brindisi section; at a certain point, however, in it it is stated: "Listened that corridor No. 5 is considered of absolute importance for the country system, it follows that it must necessarily involve the realization of the bridge on the Strait of Messina." Today, in 2013, we are still talking about the bridge over the Strait of Messina. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Lo Moro and Lo Giudice]] This is only in part of the motion, as if there were still citizens in here with their eyes closed: but no, we have read the text of the motion well and we want to talk about it also in the presence of the Undersecretary, since he considers the issue so important that it deserves a wider debate. First of all, we cannot understand how this motion can be combined with that presented by Senator Tomaselli. It is precisely the construction of this macrostructure that is being discussed, leaving entirely in the background the introductory arguments on the European corridors (this is a more important issue). For our part it is impossible not to follow a uniformity of thought regarding the topic that we have always supported with all our strength: a firm and decisive opposition to the realization of the bridge of Messina, and not by whim or by party taken, but by obvious and objective data. In fact, it is well known that several studies have shown that that area has strong criticalities due to the seismic characteristics of the area; the same studies detect a sequence of numerous shocks that continue to manifest in the epicentral area and its immediate surroundings for months or even years, as synthesized by the graphs of the National Institute of geophysics. The construction of large coastal stretches would lead to the alteration of unique marine habitats in the Mediterranean, altering the flora and fauna of the same environments; this is an area largely bound by the extraordinary landscape values and severely protected by the European Union. Gentlemen, we are referring to a work, that of the bridge over the Strait of Messina, leaving aside fundamental objective facts. (Brusio). If colleagues have the courtesy of paying attention, we could make an important speech on this subject which could mean development. Which one of you traveled to Salerno-Reggio Calabria 20 years ago? Which one of you's been walking her the last time? We are planning to build a bridge at the end of an impossible stretch to be crossed today, to arrive then in my Sicily where the primary infrastructures still do not exist today, where there is no minimum infrastructure system that can bind architectural, cultural and environmental beauties fundamental for the growth and development of those territories. I would like to mention just a few of them: Segesta, Selinunte, Agrigento, Taormina, Etna, Egadi and Aeolies. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Even today - you will forgive me all for this expression, but the data is this - you of the "single model" want us to pass two completely different things as a solution ignoring the objective data: that I know, the Società Stretto di Messina spa (SSM) is a society - feel well - that was founded in 1981, when the undersigned was ten to eleven years old; well, it is since I was ten to eleven years old that I and all of you pay for that company, which cost about 400 million euros! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Puppato.]] Then I would ask myself - not everyone, because in this parliamentary term many are new like me, but some of you, in here, have responsibilities: some of you were already in here when those decisions were made - I would like to begin to understand it, by making names and surnames, who are responsible for so much waste of public money. In a situation like today's, I do not know which of you had the sensitivity to listen to Mr Serra's recent speech: it was one of those speeches that we do at the end of the sitting, when everyone left; we talked about work and she got excited about that intervention. The lack of sensitivity lies precisely in this: let's explain well why last Thursday it was not decided to vote on these motions so different; let's understand why the single model, all compact, decided to move this debate to today because it was clear that two so different motions could not be united. Probably the Great Autonomous and Freedom Group was doing, my lords, at the cost and expense of the citizens, electoral propaganda; it was doing this, because Sunday they held the ballots. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The response of the citizens came in a clear, strong and evident way: on the one hand, a mayor of the 5 Star Movement was elected in Ragusa, on the other, there is a mayor of the civic list "No Bridge." Let this be a teaching for all; let us hope to be more sunny, more active and let us all open our sleeves. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u38	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (PdL). Madam President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, it is true that the debate in this House serves, but sometimes it is poorly attended, poorly attended and poorly listened to. If the debate in this House were to achieve its objective (i.e. to promote a fruitful relationship between different positions), it would build or help to build democracy. I believe that the fruitful and productive debate, which started from different positions, which has developed on this measure in the Senate Chamber has served something. Let me express to the friends of the LAG Group and to my colleague Compagnone my appreciation for the withdrawal of the motion (I would also like to say this to my colleague Cervellini, because I found his speech interesting, less interesting the polemic vis in relation to a measure on which we can only say thanks to the LAG Group). It was, in fact, a gesture of maturity and awareness: a gesture of responsibility in support of an important moment for the construction of a united Italy that is stronger in the European scenario. I'm gonna take it a little bit, fellas. The debate was fruitful, and I would like to recall the participation of the PDL Group in the drafting of this motion, which we had no difficulty in signing, even if the first signature was of a colleague of the PD Group, Senator Tomaselli, who was also a dear, authoritative and competent friend. We have in fact shared the aims from the beginning, knowing that there are times when the principles of divisivity do not do well to the flag tricolor and to the development of a unitary path that present us strong in Europe. We have therefore participated with conviction in the drafting and the process of this motion, whose conclusions we share today, because at times like this politics is called to transform the oppositions and the issue into a constructive confrontation, for the good of the community. We are in the middle of a confrontation at European level, which, within the framework of the wider Europe 2020 Strategy, is all about designing the future of cohesion policy and its essential role in contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, while promoting harmonious development of the Union and its regions through the reduction of territorial disparities. Italy must and can make a significant contribution to directing this comparison substantially, in order to create the conditions for making cohesion policy more effective and to promote the necessary actions, in terms of the content and rules of programming and implementation, to achieve concrete results. Dear colleague Davico, there is a safe, as the Government has repeated several times, and I thank the Government for this and still today the Undersecretary. It is an open safe, where there are considerable resources, which amount to over 50 billion euros, of which 29 only for infrastructure: it depends on us, whether we want to seize this opportunity or we want to divide ourselves and linger on issues of a more general nature, sometimes slipping into an irreconcilable controversy, and losing what today would be useful for our country. It is no coincidence that today we are debating a motion that intends to commit the Government on the front of the promotion in Europe of the extension of the corridor from Lecce to Ancona, the so-called Baltic-Adriatic, in view of the approval of the Adriatic-Ionian macro-region, and that of the modernization of the railway network of the Adriatic dorsal, with particular reference to the director Milan-Lecce, historically, atavically and absolutely lacking of an adequate infrastructure that supports the high-speed line. Colleagues, Madam President, friends of the Government, often in this House, especially at important times, I have the feeling that there is a risk of demagogy, what we are not doing today. It is often said: "If the South does not grow, the country does not grow." They are statements of principle which are unanimous in their approval, but in fact they delay measures which are the result of these sacred declarations. It is a truth that, if it is not nouned by concrete interventions in the solution of the infrastructural gap, absolutely unsustainable, risks becoming only an enunciate, demagogically exposed, even with emphasis, in order to hide the enduring state of territorial selfishness. We must not, therefore, lose ourselves in the belief that it is merely claims. To find a solution to this gap means to identify interventions, by restoring to territorial cohesion policy its own objective, namely the promotion of development and therefore the impact that these interventions must have on the growth and improvement of the quality of life of the territories concerned. The goal, colleagues, is not to compensate for what has been lifted in the South and that probably not even the celebrations of the 150th anniversary of the Unity of Italy have returned to an authentic dimension of truth; the objective is that, moreover evoked by Article 16 of the Constitution, of the right to mobility that must have levels of uniformity on the entire national territory, if we still believe in one and indivisible Italy, in an Italy in which, on October 3, 1839, Ferdinando II inaugurated the first section, from Naples to Portici, of the first railway in Italy, the one that would lead from Naples to Castellammare. I therefore believe that in this direction a new logic must be directed that reverses the trend of Trenitalia in order to support more and better the policies of mobility within the national territory with specific reference to the Mezzogiorno of Italy. Trenitalia must obviously facilitate and not hinder the right of the Mezzogiorno to resume in hand the thread of its destiny, reinserating itself in the routes of development and enjoying equal opportunities with respect to the rest of the country. This perspective in the South, which is a perspective for the whole country, is precluded if the doctor's scalpel is sunk not already to intervene on the disease but to devastate and accelerate the end and the continuing state of economic, social and cultural subordination of this area of the country. The last act took place a few weeks ago with the entry into force in the new summer time of Trenitalia, which considered not to include several Regions of the Mezzogiorno, such as Puglia, between the areas suitable for high speed connections or connections with the superfast trains Frecciargento and Frecciarossa. In this direction we must move and be consequent. The citizens and the southern businesses - I have also heard of this to a number of colleagues from other geographical parts of the country in this very House, and this is their honor - are not B-class citizens and businesses. How can the South enter the virtuous circuit of competitiveness if it does not have all the necessary tools to enable this area to become an attractive area for investment and development? Think of tourism in the first place. The State then has a duty to put in place all the conditions, and I believe that this is an opportunity. The strengthening of the railway network and the technological adjustment are essential elements in order to support that process of growth and development that we all want and that for Italy, also for the reasons mentioned above, are necessary in order to support a more united Europe and more solidarity also from the point of view of a structural network that facilitates the movement of people and goods. This motion will prove in all its fundamental importance the more the Government will, with the support of Parliament, support it in the programming of the European Union's resources for the period 2014-20. All these reasons, also re-launched in the great daily newspaper of the South, La Gazzetta del Mezzogiorno, which gathered the views of representatives of all the regions of the Adriatic ridge from Friuli to Puglia, are absolutely indicative. Mr Undersecretary, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with these reasons, I believe that this will is being raised by a strong and authoritative voice from the Senate House today, which allows me to express my conviction in the PDL Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u39	It is present in the gallery the Italian national college football team, in retreat in Rome, in preparation for the Universiads that will take place in Kazan, Russia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u42	FILIPPI (PD). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the motion before us, which the Senate Assembly is preparing to vote on, stems from the need to frame the opportunities that the redefinition of European corridors opens for our country. The theme is the new Community infrastructure programming of the TEN-T networks. The issues, as rightly stated in the motion, have already been discussed extensively and thoroughly in the Commission and in this House during the last parliamentary term, both for the evaluation of the adequacy of the programming instrument and, above all, for what was not and has not yet been included in this and that, on the other hand, we hope that they will be implemented as soon as possible. Trying to summarize, the new Community programming, as has been said, involves two levels: the global or peripheral network, the so-called comprehensive Net, represented by all the works necessary for the connection of all the Community countries, and the central or core Net network, represented essentially by those priority infrastructures which constitute the central structure of the European Union. As has been pointed out, the European Union's attention to these two areas is different, both from the point of view of the types of funding and from the point of view of the time strategies for their implementation. Now, a first consideration, in line with the objective of the motion, is the need to introduce some elements of reflection and desired correction in relation to the forecasts initially contained in the new programming framework. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please, let's make a further effort. FILIPPI (PD). The core Net, the so-called central network, is in fact the infrastructure already defined and in part existing in Europe, the central one, precisely, whose completion and modernization is certainly an element of extraordinary strengthening of the already strong Europe, that is, the so-called area of the blue banana, a term that, starting from the primordial definition, has already known such a fortune to find, not by chance, the progressive extension of its scope of influence. The same Adriatic-Baltic corridor and the request for the establishment of a new Adriatic-Ionian macro-region are born, precisely, as a natural evolution of expansion of this strong area. This is an area which will surely maximise the benefits of further investment, but which probably - and this is the point - is not at its best what was the initial strategy proposed by the European Union, that of a continent capable of reconciling development and social cohesion, progress and redistribution of income, balanced development between central and peripheral and maritime regions. The fact that the priority strategic infrastructures, included in the Adriatic-Baltic corridor, stop in Ravenna reveals the aspect that most contradicts precisely that basic principle and constituted a Europe that, from Lisbon onwards, aimed to unite itself in order to rebalance the different levels of development and, in the perspective, also connect the neighbouring countries. In this sense, the exclusion of links with non-EU countries risks leading, as well as the loss of a strategic vision that the European Union has always had, with the development of the enlargement process started from the mid-1990s and then continued with greater intensity in the early 2000s, also the loss of an extraordinary opportunity for development. In the previous programming, in fact, this principle was represented, as was rightly mentioned in the motion Tomaselli, by corridor 8 Bari-Varna, which in the new programming is instead suppressed. Corridor 8 Bari-Varna was a driving force for export and redistribution of well-being, but also a potential factor for peace in the Mediterranean area which, with the new strategy for the development of the TEN-T networks, seems to be questioned. Then it is essential that the infrastructure, in particular the railway one aimed mainly, as it has been remembered, to the high capacity, does not stop in Ravenna but continues throughout the Adriatic dorsal until it connects also the Ionian regions. The second reflection that I want to put to the attention of the House, which is also well set out in the motion, is based on the philosophy underlying the new programming. A programming of the works that, as we have seen, risks being, as well as excessively centralist, also based on a greater concentration of the development of the infrastructural investments instead of the necessity of their wider diffusion and redistribution. The forecast of the transversal Napoli-Bari, foreseen in the new programming, constitutes in this sense a great opportunity for connection between areas with significant population density and between economic realities of particular interest. Among other things, the forecast of the new cross-section of Bari-Naples can, even without the former corridor 8, make it live the basic objective, that of a connection with the regions of the other Adriatic side, thus promoting the development of new traffics for the peripheral and marine regions that currently know unjustified and unjustifiable differentials in the rates of growth. I would add, of course, that all this reasoning that we make today on the Adriatic shore has its natural counterpart also for the Tyrrhenian one, starting from the completion and realization of other cross-sections equally important for the balanced and harmonious development of the country. I am referring to the Orte-Falconara or the Grosseto-Fano, or the one signalled by the agenda at the first signature of Senator Razzi, the Roma-Pescara, which we obviously share, and whose compromises or state of degradation make our country center-southern, if I pass this representation even a little caricature, a country turned from the shoulders and supported by the Apennines. Connecting to more latitudes the Tyrrhenian coast with the Adriatic one, realizing what is called a bridge of land between two seas and rich in traffic and relations, represents a high vision of development to which we should not give up, in the interest of the potential for our country but also more generally in the interest of the European Union. That is to say, we should not give up the vision of a link that extends the infrastructure, infrastructures that today stop instead in the central area of our country, sometimes risking to make it a land of middle " where the connection between the North and the South of the country gets worse and is further compromised, but above all depriving the European Union with it of its own Euro-Mediterranean vocation. Finally, Senator Tomaselli's first-signed motion has the merit of drawing attention to a geographical area that has significant potential for development and outlines the right priorities. A sea that is apparently closed in reality offers extraordinary opportunities for openings, both in terms of connection and continuity for our country as well as of relations and traffic with the countries that face it. Connecting everything that faces this sea and bringing these realities together with the main logistic nodes of the European markets constitutes a double and mutual opportunity for development. The Mediterranean Sea has for some time rediscovered its international centrality precisely because of its traversability due to the traffics that from the far east sail it on the Suez-Gibralterra route, but also for the potentialities of traffics that Europe can intertwine with the new markets of development, from the Middle Eastern ones, to the Balkan one and, last, but not least, that with the Africa of the North. Making the most of these potentials, really believing in them, means investing in relationships, but also materially in terms of infrastructure. An investment that must not be proposed a return only in the short and medium term, but a more certain return in terms of the pacification of an area still very tormented today, and above all in the logic of a mutual greater well-being determined by the linking of mutual scarcity complementary to mutual riches. Connecting Europe is the objective of the new TEN-T corridor programming. In our opinion, this means working to make it attainable, but also working to build bridges towards the future, towards new relationships, towards new traffic, towards a new development of peace and well-being. For all these reasons we are voting with absolute conviction in favour of the motion tabled by Senator Tomaselli and the other senators. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u43	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on motion No 37 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 37 (text 2), tabled by Senator Tomaselli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 222 Senators voting 221 Majority 111 Favourites 164]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, we are kindly asking for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Razzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 222 Senators voting 219 Majority 110 Favorables 168]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u46	Mr Manconi (PD). Madam President, I would like to point out that I was unable to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u47	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u48	Senators and senators, as already communicated to the groups in the short term, the agenda for tomorrow's sitting is supplemented by the secret ballot of nine actual senators and nine alternate senators who are members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u51	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this speech I would like to support the request of the President of the Tuscany Region Enrico Rossi to the Government to proceed to the declaration of the state of national emergency for the areas of Lunigiana and Garfagnana, in order to allow the best management of the post earthquake. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Those who must turn away do so, without causing too much trouble. Please, Senator Caleo. Mr Caleo (PD). Since last Friday, in fact, that territory lives in a condition of discomfort and fear not only for the main shock, but for the seismic swarm, that since then invests a very vast territory, that goes from Tuscany to Liguria, to Emilia Romagna. There were no victims, even if the shock was of a high degree (equivalent to 5.2 points on the Richter scale) and this is partly due to the work of prevention that took place after the earthquake of 1995, by the municipalities, but also by the Region. Many, however, are the houses and public offices that are inaccessible or damaged. The civil protection machinery started immediately, guaranteeing first aid to the affected population, but it is necessary that the Government should commit itself immediately and that the affected populations should not be abandoned: in this regard, I would like to thank the Undersecretary D'Angelis for having visited the affected areas yesterday, personally aware of the situation. In order to cope with the major damage, it is absolutely necessary to allocate adequate resources in a short time to allow a rapid return to normality. It is necessary for the future to provide adequate financial cover for civil protection activities, so that it can act promptly on emergencies, with a special fund, without releasing the relevant burden on citizens with various regional excise duties. In these days, moreover, our students are engaged with the exams of maturity and many of the school buildings in that territory and overall in the country, are not built in compliance with the anti-seismic regulations (the order of geologists today speaks of about 80 percent). Well, you can't waste any more time and you can't risk it. The government must give an important signal by subtracting from the constraint of the Stability Pact of the Municipalities the funds for the security interventions of schools and public buildings. It is essential that in a country like ours, strongly exposed to seismic risk, citizens are provided with the tools to defend themselves and to prevent disasters, as well as to ensure all the necessary help once natural disasters have occurred. I hope that the tax reliefs for the interventions to improve the energy efficiency of the buildings contained in the ecobonus decree-law will be extended as - requested by the Democratic Party Group - to seismic security interventions. I also appeal to the orders of engineers and geologists to make their expertise available today in this state of emergency, as it happened in Emilia-Romagna. In conclusion, we must be more aware than ever, especially as regards this territory and in general for our country, of living in a condition of permanent seismicity. Precisely for this reason, the activation of a strategic plan for the safety of the highest risk areas is of the utmost priority and no longer procrastinable. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u54	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I would like to refer to the speech made by Senator Caleo - whom I thank - who spoke about my land, Lunigiana, where I was born and alive and where I served as mayor for 19 years. There has been an earthquake of magnitude 5.2; thanks to Heaven, there have been neither dead nor wounded, because the administrations - and they must be applauded - had built according to anti-seismic logic not only since 1995, but since 1920, that is, since there has been a great earthquake that has brought mourning and devastation. The populations have remained isolated, alone. The mayor of Casola made an appeal with tears at TG1: There was neither civil protection nor anyone here. Only this morning some technicians of the Civil Genio went to check the situation of the houses in the areas of the epicenter. We believe that the Government and the Region should be closer to the lands concerned, which have so far been abandoned (I am more critical than Senator Caleo); the Undersecretary himself did not go to the affected areas: he went near, that is, to the headquarters of the City of Fivizzano, but it is not there that happened. The earthquake occurred in Equi Terme, Casola, Gragnola and other areas, and it is there - I repeat - that we must go. We must give resources not to the administrations but to the citizens who, alone, will recover them and manage to put back those historic villages, wonderful, that are the heritage of Lunigiana. I should like to conclude by saying one thing. I am sure that Massa's prosecutor will not open files against science, as happened at L'Aquila, you will not condemn those who did not foresee earthquakes, because certain sentences should not be respected, like that of L'Aquila, where the greatest scientists have been accused of not being able to prevent earthquakes, doing an image damage to Italy immeasurable. We hope that we will roll up our sleeves and seriously look for reconstruction and those who do damage, as happened to L'Aquila, must pay.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u57	PUPPATE (PD). Madam President, I would like to bring to the attention of this Senate a very relevant news for all of us, which is the one communicated yesterday by Dr Angelo Bishops, coordinator and scientific director of Neurothon, who informed us that the first phase of brain cell transplantation testing in six patients has been completed without negative results and without side effects. This fact proposes an information that we should treasure not only in order to be proud of today, but to understand, as Professor Bishops said, that if there had been more attention to research in Italy, a research that, as in this case, faced with an economic commitment of 3.3 million euros, was able to produce a result that has been given an international task, of which one must be proud and that can prelude to a subsequent important contribution of science compared to neurodegenerative diseases, such as ALS, on which we have intervened at this time, extraordinary social and health effects could have been determined, also effects from an economic point of view. I am referring to the need to share a often dramatic health path, but certainly very expensive for Italy. Well, if the 3.3 million had been identified more quickly than had been the case, a technique developed in 1996 - so 17 years ago - would have been allowed to proceed more quickly in order to be able to give such an important news 4-5 and perhaps more years ago. Now, to the minister Carrozza and to all of us it is entrusted a formal call to succeed in finding resources that put this experimentation to all the Italian research centers, that move with intelligence, ability and that often have to seek the funds directly from private or from individual citizens, in the condition of working quickly, with due respect, without patemis of mind and with the true support of the Italian public administration, the Italian Government and the whole Parliament. We invest in research, in these researches, which value the human life and work of so many people who in darkness and complete indifference are giving us international merit and will make life easier for all of us in the future. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u60	Cotti (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for speaking on a subject which is very little political, but which concerns the functionality of our work in this House. For some decades I have chosen to move with my bike for all the movements of the day, and I also use the bike to come to the Senate. Today, unlike the past days, I have not been able to park it anywhere, practically, in the whole neighborhood, even where I parked it in the previous days because I was prevented by the police forces and the carabinieri. That is why I arrived here half an hour late and was therefore registered as absent. For reasons unexplained to me, a senator with his car can enter the inner area of the palaces of the Senate, park it for a short time, unload the bags or anything else, get in the office, get off and then leave with the car itself. All this is not allowed to those who move with the bike. By the way, I would point out that last week I had a physical problem with my feet, that even forced me to go to the infirmary and that it prevented me from walking well. I have to say that it is practically impossible to use the bicycle to come to the Senate. I was even prevented from taking her to the office, and I don't understand why. Some senators carry trunks in their office, while it is not possible to bring the bicycle, for reasons - I repeat - always unexplained to me. It seems to me that there is discrimination, which I do not say is intentional, but probably due to ignorance or distraction: we are absolutely prevented from using this type of mobility which should, on the contrary, be promoted to the detriment of those who pollute the air. Instead, that is what happens, and today I have not even been able to arrive on time and register my presence in this Chamber for a reason that I find absolutely unfair. I therefore ask that something be done about this. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cuomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u61	Senator Cotti, the Presidency reports the matter to the relevant offices. Senator Commissioner Malan has asked to speak on this matter. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u62	Currently there is a bicycle rack at Palazzo Cenci, where it was placed in the last legislature. Waiting for a detailed regulation - we are a simple country, so even a rack needs regulations - and in order to avoid that anyone can leave your bike - this makes sense - the senators must ask permission, through a question that is quickly escaped to ask to leave the bike at Palazzo Cenci, at the end of Via della Dogana Vecchia. Senator Cotti may have tried to park his bicycle in that rack and been prevented because he did not have this prior authorization. I understand the frenziedness of the situation, but the senators who come to the Senate with their bikes have a right place to place it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u64	Senator Cotti, we cannot open a debate on this. We have to do a test and solve the problem. Anyway, you have the right to speak for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u65	Cotti (M5S). I ask again for the floor to say that the solution of the rack at Palazzo Cenci is absolutely not functional to those who have offices in other Palazzo and often arrives with luggage. You can not go to Palazzo Cenci and then, on foot, with your luggage, reach your office and then return to Palazzo Cenci to go away. Of course, something else must be done. That is absolutely not enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u66	Senator, we'll do the proper checks.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u69	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to inform the House that tonight the premises of the Left Ecology and Freedom Section, the Democratic Party and the General Confederation of Labour were devastated by a fire by unknown people in Rome, in the Triumphal Quarter, in Via Pietro Giannone. Our city is withdrawn from a very long electoral campaign, which began with the general elections, followed by regional elections and, lately, administrative and municipal elections. During this long election campaign, we have witnessed worrying phenomena. We thought (of course) that, at the end of this path, they would cease and we could consider a way and a relationship, even in political confrontation, that absolutely excluded episodes of this nature or similar. Of course, then the investigators will tell us more - if they succeed, and I hope so, to give them a name and a face - about the unknown perpetrators of this attack, which could be solved in a more tragic way, finding that seat - like all the others - below a stable inhabited by many citizens. I believe that not only, as is always said in these cases, we must not lower our guard, but we must - also for what we have to do - keep it high and determine acts that allow our city, in Rome the capital city of the country, to re-appropriate that function, those characteristics that have always made it the first place as a welcoming city, as a city in which the confrontation has always been carried out and maintained in the context of respect, not only formal, of democratic conditions. I would also urge you, in the appropriate seats, to show the unity of this House in order to help bring about a possible attempt at escalation from this point of view. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u70	Your appeal, Senator Cervellini, seems important to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u73	PADUA (PD). Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of myself and the members of the Justice Committee of the Democratic Party Group in order to call for an answer to a very urgent question which I tabled more than a month ago (the 4-00214), which concerns a very serious problem of our own, in Sicily. In particular, I refer to the reorganization of the penitentiary order, in order of spending review, as a result of which the closure of the surrounding houses of Mistretta, Modica and Nicosia was decided. I have already written in the question that in the prison of Modica, where I went yesterday, there is a dream reality, a utopia realized, in the sense that the guests who live there are recognized as people, consider it a family home. They can be helped in the recovery, as provided for in our Constitutional Charter, they carry out professional, craft courses and also help outside, as prisoners in semi-freedom, for example, keep the beaches clean. It is also ready a project that involves the use of these people as escorts of tourists to monumental realities of that neighborhood. Well, despite all the extraordinary work done, which is what we are going to say that we want to worry about overcrowded prisons, or we despair about yet another suicide of a prisoner (and we know that overcrowding is a trigger), we decide to close the structure. I didn't get any answers. On 30 June next, that is in a few days, these people will be scattered throughout Sicily, they will no longer have the opportunity to have contact with the family and will no longer have the attention to the person who deserves that condition, and above all instead of saving (I say "especially" in the mentality and logic, which I do not share, of saving in this sense) we will also risk infringements. In fact, all this would not have happened if work had been done in the prison of the neighbouring city of Ragusa; well, those works were not even started. What do you want to do with those people? Yesterday I went there, I met these people and looked them in the eye; I saw 20-year-olds who, Madam President, already have children. I met, for example, a 22-year-old boy who has a two-year-old girl, who was there visiting and whose name is Maria Sole. I wonder what model Maria Sole will have for her life; that little girl already has the marked destiny. We will be able to recover that boy if he stays in that house, but if he is transported and thrown away I do not know where, that child, Maria Sole, will no longer meet his father or will see him very rarely, and unfortunately will trace the same path. So, this is prevention; this is where prevention is done. What's the Minister's response? On June 30th the prison will be emptied: where will these people be thrown away? I would really ask you to support this situation, while blocking the closure scheduled for 30 June and granting an extension, and then reconsidering everything politically. I would like to understand whether I, who belong to the Democratic Party, who believe in social justice and the recovery of people, who have my ideals, who the Democratic Party professes, and all the others who want to live this wonderful adventure, really have to bow our heads in front of all this or we can shout loudly our desire for respect for the Constitutional Charter, which we all say we venerate. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u74	Senator Padua, the Presidency will undertake to urge the Government once again in order to send an immediate response.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-49.ana.u75	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 11.20 a.m.
