ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 19 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 12,08 p.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u4	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the bicameral parliamentary committees, already convened on 1 August 2013 and whose constituent sessions did not take place, are again convened, for their constitution, on Thursday 26 September 2013 in the premises of Palazzo San Macuto, in Via del Seminario, according to the following timetables: - 8.30, Parliamentary Committee for Children and Adolescence and Parliamentary Commission for the monitoring of the activities of bodies managing compulsory forms of social security and social assistance; - 14, Parliamentary Commission for the simplification, Parliamentary Committee for the supervision of tax administration and Parliamentary Committee for the monitoring of the implementation of the Schengen Agreement, for the supervision of Europol's activities, for the control and supervision of immigration. I also communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Delegations to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and the INCE Parliamentary Assembly, already convened on 1 August 2013 and whose constituent sessions did not take place, are again convened, for their constitution, at the headquarters of Palazzo Valdina, Sala Soprachiesa, in the following days and times: - Thursday 26 September, at 14, Delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly; - Tuesday 8 October, at 14, Delegation to the INCE Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u5	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Senator Sergio Zavoli celebrated his 90th birthday last September 21st. [[General, prolonged applause.]] Master of journalism, writer, poet, parliamentary in his fourth legislature, his authoritative figure perfectly embodies the role that in many institutions is used to attribute to the dean, to the person that, by virtue of age and experience, constitutes a model to which to look and from whose words to draw comfort in the moment of choice and difficulty. The words of Sergio Zavoli are always history and storytelling, a plot of an elegant narrative, where complexity is also accessible to the general public, but never trivialized, where thought and discernment become consciousness and awareness of their own identity. His extraordinary professional experience, which has made the history of Italian television journalism, has in fact his heart beating in the objective of not offering preconstituted truths to the listener, but to arouse in him the reflection and critical thought that are the basis of a true and full information. In conversations also offered spontaneously, Senator Zavoli is usually reminded that one of the greatest fragility of our time is to confuse pluralism with the sum of fatiosity. In this criticism emerges the strength of his experience of voice and narrator of our time. A free and wise voice, for which information is always rooted in the search for truth, in the respect of one's interlocutor, in the intrinsic democratic nature of pluralism which requires an unconventional reciprocity, but willing to change one's own deepest convictions. There is therefore a right to inform, but at the same time also a right to be informed, for which the duty - both for individuals and for the public authorities - is imposed to live the sociality of communication as an essential dimension of life. This is the deep sense of Senator Zavoli's words: The facts daughter facts, thoughts thoughts, passions daughter passions. An account and at the same time an appeal against all social blindness and against moral muteness. Informing and communicating are indispensable perspectives of civil coexistence, of the redemption against prejudice, the deprivation of dignity, the weakening of freedom confused with the arbitrariness, the questionable, the biased. His writing and his word have managed to go beyond the news creating and spreading culture and composing in dozens of extraordinary journalistic and editorial challenges long terms considered contrasting as knowledge and communication, narration and mystery, secularity and faith. The masterpieces of his career as a journalist, from "Birth of a dictatorship" to "The Night of the Republic," from "Travel around man" to his first book "Socialist of God," have told with rigor and skill the most difficult and controversial joints of our national history, making Sergio Zavoli almost the symbol of Italian radio television and its cultural mission. Mission pervicaciously pursued during the six years of the RAI Summit, from 1980 to 1986. In a context of great transformation of that public service, marked by the opening of the market to private competition, the Zavoli Presidency calls for the modernisation of the television instrument, without ever losing sight of the objective of helping to change the world. The protection of cultural heritage, the promotion of culture in all its forms, the preservation of historical memory, the professional enhancement of youth talents are some of the ideal threads of Sergio Zavoli's illustrious biography, which, since 2001, continue to inspire his parliamentary activity in this House, in the 7th Permanent Commission and in the Commission for the Library and Historical Archives, to which he has been elected a few days ago. Its political ingenuity fits perfectly along its professional and life path, indeed it represents its consistent completion, because for Senator Zavoli information and communication are above all culture and culture is never an adventure of the individual, but always a common path to follow. Culture and politics feed and forge the community. Politics, as Fr.Milani wrote, is going out together. With a quote from Benedetto Croce, very dear to Senator Zavoli, we can say that we are what we know and can do. The institutional life of Sergio Zavoli, as well as his life as a journalist and a man of culture, draws primary sap from a deep fascination towards the mystery that is in every man. It is this profound humanism, a vein of spiritual anxiety, that manifests itself in every step of its action, and constitutes its most precious witness to all of us. Its deep-rooted humanism is an expression of realism, it is never escape from reality, vice versa it is history of a world and critical consciousness of a time. I quote his words: We are not only people, but also citizens, and in our individual and common weaknesses, private and public, we must look for the origins of our acts and, not uncommonly, of our troubles. The distinctive trait, the style of presence and speech of Senator Zavoli recalls the famous script by Vittorio Emanuele Orlando, "Il parlare in Parlamenta" (The Speaking in Parliament), which stated: We cannot fail to feel inferior, all, to the nobility of it. We must all feel that we are not worthy enough. But at this inferiority we can partially repair with intense love and absolute devotion. Love and devotion that Sergio Zavoli has always addressed to our country, its institutions, its history, its destiny as a European nation, with the crystalline consistency of the most faithful witness. I am sure to express the sentiment of the whole Assembly in renewing them, Senator Zavoli, the affectionate wishes of the Senate of the Republic. [[General, prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u6	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1014.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u9	Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. Mr President, in order to allow for greater fluidity in the work of this House, as well as to facilitate a better understanding of the issues covered and their financial coverage, I would prefer to await the conclusion of the work of the 5th Commission, which is still under way, and for which President Azzollini has asked for an hour more. I would therefore ask the Presidency to postpone today's one-hour examination so that we can continue to work until the vote on this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u10	Colleagues, if we all agree, rather than postpone the beginning of an hour, it would perhaps be better to postpone the debate on the measure directly to today's afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u13	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I apologise to you and to the Members of this House, but I remember that the agenda for the week was supplemented by today's afternoon sitting, asking the senators to be here at noon. I believe that there should be a minimum of seriousness, then, both in planning and in keeping with the commitments made: otherwise, I think it was pointless to convene the Conference of Leaders in order to change the time for convening this House. I just wanted to report this. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PdL and M5S Groups]] We are adults, we cannot always make fun of ourselves by playing these games, also because we are talking about the movement of over 300 people who, it is true that they make senators - I think everyone, however, scrupulously - but also have other commitments. I therefore ask that these things do not happen anymore: the commitments must be respected by everyone, starting with the relevant Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u14	Thank you, Senator Volpi. As you will be aware, the decision to set at 12 noon this morning the beginning of our work was taken here with the agreement of all the Group Leaders, even if the Conference of Leaders had decided otherwise. We take note of your report and we can only agree with you that it would be better not to waste time, but to use it as much as possible. Having said that, I refer the continuation of the debate on the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-108.ana.u15	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.22 p.m.
