ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PETRAGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 15 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u3	The next item is questions to be answered immediately (so-called question time) on the programming and management of the European Structural Funds and territorial cohesion policies, to which the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, Professor Trigilia, will reply. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on. Let us now turn to questions on the planning and management of the European Structural Funds. The senators have the right to address their questions to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u6	COCIANCICH (PD). Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions by referring first of all to your speech to the Commissions meeting 5a and 14a on 11 July, and also to the important information gathered in the 14th Commission at the hearing of the President of Confindustria, Dr Squinzi, a few days ago (8 October) on the use of our country's structural funds. In your communication you pointed out how late the use of these funds was on the part of our country at both national and regional level. Let me remind you of some data on which, in July of this year, only 40% of the funds would be used. Dr. Squinzi pointed out that these funds are being used in an extremely fragmented way. In fact, there are about 650,000 projects set up in our country, with a very wide dispersion on the territory, as 32.2% of Italian municipalities would be the beneficiary of at least one project financed in the 2007-2013 programmes. My question is as follows. Since the Minister had identified this as one of the priorities of his action, anticipating contacts at both European and national level, I would like to have an update on the state of play of the situation, given that we are talking about almost 28 billion euros not yet spent, a sum so important for the economy of our country that it cannot be neglected.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u9	FLORIS (PdL). Madam President, Minister, since the Constitution gives the State the task of promoting territorial cohesion by removing the economic and social obstacles which effectively limit the equality of citizens; whereas the use of the resources provided by the European funds aims to remove territorial imbalances and to ensure opportunities for development in the various regions, I would remind you that on 11 July, during the hearing in the 5th and 14th Commissions of the Senate, you presented particularly critical data on the use of Community resources and proposed, in agreement with the President of the Council, the establishment of a working group composed of the Ministers concerned to examine the functioning of the main services and to indicate the reference costs and quality of performance. I ask you, then, whether the establishment of the working group within the Government has come to an end and with what prospects and results. I would also like to ask what initiatives the Minister intends to take to remove territorial imbalances and to ensure more efficient essential services, particularly in the regions of the Mezzogiorno and the islands, and what actions he intends to promote in order to activate and allow a stronger use of European funds. In the margin of the question, I would add that in the 2007-2013 programming, as far as Sardinia is concerned, 600,000 euros have been deducted from a total of 1,100,000 euros that had to be allocated to it and, as far as the 2014-2020 funds are concerned, for Sardinia, but also for other regions (Abruzzo and Molise) which are part of a transitional phase in Community policies, we believe that 26 percent of the funds have been taken away. The remaining request is therefore to be able to rebalance.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u12	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, Minister, the state of Italy's partnership agreement is far behind the other countries of the Union, which have already sent the document to the Commissions for informal consultations which should speed up official negotiations once the regulations have been adopted. It seems that we move without references, proposing old recipes outdated and bankrupt with a heavy role, from the economic and financial point of view, of the costs, of the national technical structures, that probably do not know how to create development (just look at the physical and financial results not only of the Regions but also of the programs to national ownership 2007-2013), but become gigantic and sometimes oppressive macigni. The heated debate between the Ministry and the Regions on the future existence and configuration of national programmes seems based above all on the unwillingness of the Regions to lose areas of intervention, therefore related financial resources, of own constitutional ownership, but also on the refusal of central recipes little calibrated on territorial realities and with previous failures, such as framework programme agreements. Financial engineering instruments, for example, have been used by many managing authorities to remove the temporary problem of decommitment of non-expensive resources. I do not think there is full awareness of the characteristics of the immense risks involved in the use of these instruments, on which convenience for the managing authorities of regional operational programmes can be given some legitimate doubt. The questions I want to ask are: is the approach being taken to the programming of the PONs and PORs of the Structural Funds based on an extensive and relevant assessment of the results of previous activities and programming 2007-2013? How do you plan to overcome the obstacles and negativity of the previous programming? Thank you very much for your reply in advance.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u15	MERLONI (SCPI). Madam President, Minister, the Cohesion Action Plan prepared in 2011 in order to consolidate the process of accelerating the implementation of programmes co-financed by the European Structural Funds 2007-2013 had the merit of giving the use of these funds a strong acceleration, focusing them on investments considered to be more capable of promoting competitiveness and growth for the country. The Plan also encouraged the adoption of a working method based on a strong co-responsibility of all the actors involved: Government, Regions, European Commission. Also with a view to reprogramming 2014-2020, the European Union's recommendations to Italy were asked to make every effort to carry out this programming. I would like to ask the Minister whether the working method represented in the Plan continued to have its effects for 2013. I also wanted to know what has been the certified expenditure for European funds since January 2013, as administrations always tend to slow down.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u18	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, recent studies by the Bank of Italy have highlighted the serious collapse of the Italian industrial system in all sectors of this country, with particular reference to manufacturing, where production levels are absolutely lower than those which are certainly pre-crisis due to the difficulty of access to credit, the high taxation (of course the highest in Europe), the many bureaucratic burdens and also due to the payment of supplies by public administration not always on time. In view of this view, the Lega Nord Group considers it unacceptable that the Government should continue to operate with the logic of creating a privileged channel of support to the South when in reality the crisis does not see distinctions and affects the companies of the North as well as those of the South. Moreover, the CIPE, with the FAS funds, brought the budget first from 64 to 53, then to 45 billion euros and continued to reduce it for a matter of rebalancing of public finances. On the question, Minister, I would ask you whether you do not consider it to be a priority at this time of crisis to take steps to adopt new criteria for allocating resources from the Development and Cohesion Fund, with a view to increasing the allocation of resources contained in it to the production system of the North and the Centre-North, in order to ensure the survival of enterprises and their strengthening for the revival of the economy, rather than to check new situations in business.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u21	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, Minister, the structural funds are important financial resources, which are used considerably less than their size, with expenditure rates in the sixties, around 50%. What happens to unused resources within the time frame? How many resources have we "lost" in the last 12 years? And what effects are there in the next six years on the basis of expenditure that has not been incurred? Do we have a negative impact on the planning of the next six years? And how much does all this depend on early programming - two years before the period of expenditure - very rigid and based on criteria mainly defined in bureaucratic terms?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u24	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Madam President, Minister Trigilia, your ability to address the problems of development in Italy and the Mezzogiorno, before your speeches speak your history and your writings, but even before the press review of your Ministry, for those who are the problems still in place in Italy today in relation to the need for greater territorial cohesion, speak the data of the SVIMEZ report this morning, where it is stated that in the South there is an increase in tax pressure, that current expenditure has declined on average by 2.1%, that production has decreased, over the last 5 years, by 25%, that the fall in household consumption is 4.8%. Precisely for this reason, today, President Napolitano said that once again a new process of development for Italy is needed. The last time I remember positive data for Italy were in the title of "Le Figaro" of 2005: "L'Italie n'est plus la lanterne rouge d'Europe," i.e. the last wagon of the train. What can be done, what does this Government suggest in an assembly like that of the question time, where everyone hears us and Italy who cares about these problems listens to us? Can we think of pressing in Europe to make better use, in a more limited time, i.e. not from 2014 to 2020 but only from 2014 to 2015, of the funds made available by Europe itself, i.e. to concentrate these interventions, so as to immediately promote better results, to be read in the future, with regard to the initiative and action for cohesion? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, Professor Trigilia.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u25	Madam President, the questions put by the senators are very important and concern development policies and territorial cohesion policies, which in our country, which is very much in need of territorial cohesion, are clearly a central axis. Allow me to put together a little bit of the issues, separating some issues to which I can give an immediate answer from others, but which can be dealt with more closely. I would start, first of all, by the concern expressed by several senators about the situation of the funds in the cycle that is coming to an end, that of 2007-2013. As has been said and recalled several times in many interventions - even today - we are in a situation in which we still have to spend 28 billion. However, I would like to point out that this amount can be spent by 2015, so there are still two years left for the certification of expenditure. I must also point out that, contrary to some opinion that has circulated, with the offices of the Department of Development and Cohesion Policy, we estimate that of these 28 billion at least twenty will come to a successful conclusion, that is, it will be spent. About ten billion is more at risk, though, than these 10 billion, in all probability about half of it can also be brought to a successful conclusion through measures to accompany and support the central structures. I remember that for some time now, during the government phase of my predecessor, Fabrizio Barca, task forces have been started with the task of facilitating the implementation of projects by the regions that are in difficulty. For an amount of about 4-5 billion we have a reprogramming problem which, as I have had the opportunity to point out during the hearings I gave both to the Senate and to the House, requires interventions, which we have already done in part with the measure related to the employment package at the end of May. With this measure, in fact, we have reused resources related to the national co-financing of the national operational programmes "Convergence" - aimed therefore at the regions of the objective "Convergence" but managed by some ministries at central level - to finance interventions, especially in support of youth employment. These are essentially interventions for the decontribution of new youth employment, and I am pleased to recall here that, one week after the start of these interventions, we have already had 10,000 questions, so we assume that 10,000 new positions of permanent employment of young people have been opened, in particular in the regions of the Centre-North, but also in Campania, Abruzzo, Apulia and other regions of the Mezzogiorno, although not always at the same pace as the regions of the Centre-North. We have therefore already started a reprogramming, which must continue, working in particular on the Development Fund of the Regions (the Convergence Fund) - in particular Calabria, Campania and Sicily - for which we foresee measures to reprogram the funds at risk, in such a way that no euro should be lost, as I have had the opportunity to say also in other circumstances. These reprogramming actions will focus on stimulating local economies, such as supporting the energy efficiency of school buildings. It will also be possible to refer to projects that can immediately be built in the city plan and to implement measures to strengthen the central guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. On these measures we believe that it will be possible to reprogram the risky resources that are still actually in the 2007-2013 fund cycle. As regards the questions that many of the Senators have asked regarding the new round, I would first like to point out that, since my first hearings, I have expressed the need, which we believe to be essential, for decisive action to reform the system of funds. As it is, this system has not worked, although I must say that in the past there have never been any significant figures lost: as a country we have managed to spend almost everything; the problem is that I do not think we can actually say that we have spent well. Therefore, with the approach of the new fund cycle we have two problems: to accelerate the spending capacity, but above all to use these resources as strategic resources for the development of the country, which is in a situation of difficulty in general and in particular in the southern regions, as Senator Ferrara recalled. In short, we need to take more action on the quality of expenditure. From this point of view, we are moving substantially in two directions. First of all, unlike the past, we intend to start with a strategic assessment of the crucial points on which to intervene and thus avoid that the system of funds allocates resources to a purely aggregate logic; we want to choose on the basis of an analysis of the situation, of what is really needed, and on this basis we are focusing 80% of resources on a few major objectives, which will be innovation, internationalization, digitisation, cultural and environmental goods, human capital and employment through decontribution. We will have interventions that will have an immediate anti-recessive impact, especially in the first two years (2014-2015), and then more structural interventions that will affect the problems I mentioned. The second line of reform is very important and concerns the organisational structures with which to verify the efficiency in the use of funds. From this point of view, as you know, right here in the Senate was recently approved the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 101 of 2013, which provides for the establishment of the National Agency for Territorial Cohesion. It is a tool that intends to intervene more flexibly and more effectively, first by monitoring, monitoring, the use of funds in real time, so that we can intervene before it is too late. Secondly, (this is the central function), this intervention has a function of accompaniment, assistance, guidance, assistance to administrations that are in difficulty; thirdly, there is provision (and I think it is necessary) for a replacement power in the event of serious failures or delays. Of course, we are aware that with this intervention we cannot manage a system such as that of the funds, but it must be a deterrent to administrations that do not proceed correctly or in accordance with the timetable laid down. We imagine intervening through these two fundamental levers, upstream of a strategy and a greater selection and concentration of interventions, objectives and also measures, which must go down to a few measures and (30, 40, 50 at the most), while in the past we have reached a few hundred measures, with very fragmented projects, as has also been mentioned by some senators. We must avoid this with a strategy and a concentration on objectives, with a limitation of the measures on which we focus: we should do a few things but do them well. Secondly, through the Agency we intend to monitor, monitor and support the whole process. As you may have seen, and as some senator mentioned, there has been a difficult relationship with regional administrations on this point, but I have always supported and clarified to the Presidents of the Regions that there is no neo-centralist orientation in the establishment of the Agency or in the strategy of greater national coordination of resources. The regions will be involved in the management of the Agency, but in my opinion they must in turn make an effort of evaluation and reorientation, because actually the resource of the funds, which is strategic for the whole country, can be used from a national perspective and not parcelled and because no managing authority, be it national, central, local or regional, considers such resources as something of its own relevance instead of something that should be used and integrated into an overall national logic, that can make this resource an effective lever for development, which is what we actually need. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u26	Madam President, Minister, in saying that I am nevertheless satisfied with your reply, I would simply like to remind you of the issue of co-financing by local authorities which, in some way, has become difficult due to the constraints of the Stability Pact. I believe that the problem must be resolved, perhaps even in the next document.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u27	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister, because with his pragmatism, which I appreciated in the Commission today, he managed to give a glimpse of his work and the work of the Agency for Territorial Cohesion. We are sure that this is not an agency that leads to neocentralism, but we want to think that it operates with a sharing of programmes, as well as in the monitoring process, with local territorial realities. As far as the use of these funds is concerned, I am sure that a better finalization is the most useful preparatory system to ensure that overall the Nation system grows and that a sure development and cohesion are achieved for the whole country system. It is therefore good to locate for a few programmes, provided that they represent a certain and common objective for Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u28	Minister, according to the data of the European Commission, as my colleague said, Italy uses only 40.3% of the funds available, but as I have seen, you do not know why. Italy is third last: it precedes Bulgaria and Romania, which will soon overcome us. Forty-six out of the 52 programmes have reached the target target or the tolerance threshold of 5% from the target, but only thanks to baitage: neither the POINs, nor the PONs, nor the PORs, nor the ERDF, nor the ERDF of Lazio, nor the PORs of Piedmont have achieved the expected results. The resources of these programmes were diverted elsewhere, for example in the Cultural Decree, two weeks ago. I cannot at all be satisfied with your reply and at the same time I would like to point out to you that it is well known that the regional task forces in the Convergence regions have only helped to identify clever escamotage for the unpacking of programming between several programming containers, for example the Cohesion Action Plan, in order to make invisible the total failure in the management of the programmes by the authorities. I therefore find myself dissatisfied, and thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u29	Mr Minister, if the European Structural Funds are well used, they can play, as you said, a decisive role in bringing Italy back into a path of growth, so it would be madness not to make the best use of them and not to have high planning and timely planning. I hope that the plurality of stakeholders will not be a deterrent, it will not be a slowdown, it will not increase the difficulty and it will not complicate the use of these funds.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u30	Mr Minister, I clearly cannot be satisfied with your answer, because practically the answer to my question did not give it. In any case, his statement regarding the opportunity to choose projects wisely finds me extremely favorable: few projects, done well, but done seriously, with punctual checks. You also said that the funds should not be considered to be of their own concern. That is something I do not agree with, because I remind you that 85% of the funds are allocated to the South and 15% to the Centre-North. It is not clearly a percentage dictated by who is not known, but it is a real fact, which contrasts with what you have said.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u33	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The concern remains entirely on the expenditure of the funds. To think that some EUR 30 billion is still frozen, and to think that this happens while making much less financial stability manoeuvres, over several years, is a major concern. We believe that this also depends on the programming of the Structural Funds, and we believe that action should also be taken in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u36	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Madam President, Minister, I am absolutely and completely satisfied with your reply for the courtesy contained in it and for its qualified and qualified character. As Senator of the South, I will be able to say that I will be satisfied when unemployment in Sicily has fallen at least a little and when the worrying social situation has improved at least a little. Let me give you a piece of advice, with reference to the Agency: do not trust bureaucracy or even former bureaucrat politicians. The first idea was to create a new Cassa per il Mezzogiorno. We fought against that, and we're gonna keep doing it. I hope that the speech on the goodness of a new agency will then convince me. Not even today.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u37	Let us now turn to questions concerning territorial cohesion policies, which will be answered by the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, Professor Trigilia. The senators have the right to address their questions to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u40	SANTINI (PD). Madam President, as well as European funds and co-financing, the Italian State also has the Development and Cohesion Fund, which has been called the Fund for under-utilised areas (FAS) until some time ago. During the period 2007-2013, this Fund had EUR 64 billion, which then became EUR 45 billion because 19 were used for other purposes. The distribution between the central state and the regions was almost equal. The problem is that, just as with the European Funds, this allotment is proceeding very slowly and the figures until 30 April were really low: 2.5 billion of the 19 mentioned have been allocated to the central administrations and just over 4 billion to the regions. I would therefore like to know the actual state of play in the use of the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund. I would also like to know whether this fund is properly refinanced in the stability bill that is struggling to get out of the cards. We believe that this is an absolutely important fund for a development policy. Finally, recently in the Budget Committee we had to stop for reasons of finance 120 recruitments at the Territorial Cohesion Agency. I would ask you whether it is possible to remedy this blockade by drawing, for example, on forms of internal mobility with other administrations, which, in my opinion, are possible and can give rise to the implementation of an idea that I think is right.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u43	BLUNDO (M5S). Minister, the end-of-term report of the previous Government on territorial cohesion policies identified, as levers for the development of the city of L'Aquila, the need to support innovative industrial projects, to promote activities capable of retaining on the territory the added value generated by the process of reconstruction and enhancement of the architectural, historical and environmental uniqueness of the same territory. In particular, with the resolution CIPE n. 135 of 2012 were allocated 100 million euros for the revival for the tourist purposes of the entire area of Gran Sasso, for the creation of small integrated tourist systems based on the widespread reception and for the promotion of food excellences, for which is expected the entrance of Invitalia. I would like to know whether: this entry is also provided for in the Management Board and at what point is the state of supply of the resources allocated to the implementation of the projects I mentioned earlier. If possible, I would also like to know in detail what actions are being taken and, finally, whether there is a timetable for action to be taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u46	MERLONI (SCPI). Minister, as set out in EU Regulation 473/2013, the Commission, as part of the preventive arm of the Stability and Growth Pact, can, by assessing the 2014 and 2013 national budgets, allow temporary deviations from the path towards medium-term objectives. This deviation is known as an investment clause; in order to use it, the Member State must have negative economic growth or below potential value, the deviation must not result in a budget deficit of more than 3% and investments must be related to projects co-financed by the European Union under structural or cohesion policy or Connecting Europe Facility. Does Italy plan to allocate funds to use the investment clause? To this end, what were the priorities identified for its use?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u49	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Minister, you yourself, taking part in the first of July in Milan at the conference "Le regioni d'Italia per Expo Milano 2015" you said that it is a priority of the Government to contribute to the overall success of the Expo 2015, agreeing with the Regions the way in which their participation can be supported, focusing on an integrated representation of the Country, articulated not for geographical areas, but for supply chains related to the theme of food, to represent Italy through specific productions. To this concept immediately connects one second: that of the valorization, through the Expo event, of the different production chains, taking care to represent the specificity of the places and contexts, their history and cultural heritage, with a particular eye to the internationalization of the food productions, of which our Regions are particularly rich, also in order to direct the tourist flows activated by the Expo and anything else. Mr Minister, what initiatives have been taken and what projects are being undertaken to promote a new tourism through the definition of specific itineraries for the visit and use of the territories, including the contribution of experts in the field (tour operators) to stimulate a possible demand? To activate these projects will be able to use European funds, so as to take full advantage of the opportunity of Expo 2015 for the economic development of the whole country?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u52	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, the development of territorial cohesion cannot fail to take into account the fact that our country is divided into two, and not since yesterday. From this point of view, the Mezzogiorno of Italy pays a very high price. So the first question is: how do you intend to make full use of resources for the development of disadvantaged areas to overcome this imbalance? The second question, Minister, concerns an important infrastructure for Sardinia, which has been the subject of financing FAS, then distracted: I am talking about Sassari-Olbia, that is, an important artery of North Sardinia where, unfortunately, there is an incidence of victims from truly tragic road accidents.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u55	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Madam President, Minister, Europe, today more than in the past, focuses its attention on the fact that the management of EU funds encounters difficulties in Italy, especially because of problems linked to the inefficiency of the public administration, the continued pervasive corruption, albeit at minimal levels, of the structure and the lack of coordination between administrative levels. She, on 5 September 2013, participated in a meeting to stimulate an understanding between the Government and the Regions and just before, talking about the agencies, stressed the need to provide for the forms of commissionership of the Regions that do not fit this need of efficiency. Personally, I am convinced that the system that has borne great fruit - I think I have read it in his writings too - in Spain and Ireland is that centralism of the French type which has been well implemented elsewhere. So this stimuli of coordination doesn't convince me that much. In this regard, I would also like to make it clear, given the fact that we are in a position to do so, that we must seek this coordination and this correlation with the various administrative levels, or is it not the case and the time to prepare ourselves for an intense, central activity in order to finally be able to spend efficiently and effectively the funds made available, just as it has never been before? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, Professor Trigilia.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u56	Madam President, in this case I will reply to every senator or senator individually, following the order of questions. Senator Santini poses a problem relating to the Development and Cohesion Fund, which once, as he recalled, was called the FAS Fund (Fund of underused areas). This fund had been used for various public finance needs, not specifically related to what should have been its use, i.e. territorial development and territorial cohesion problems. Indeed, what is left of that fund has not yet been fully committed: that is, we have about 40 billion of this fund which is allocated by CIPE resolutions, but of which little less than 20% has been spent. These resources must be used and we are planning to take action on these funds, partly because there is a problem of linking up with the new Development and Cohesion Fund, which - in fact - has been allocated to the Stability Act of some 54 billion (if I am not mistaken: above 50 billion anyway). This fund, in this case (this had been the agreement with the minister for the economy Saccomani) will be, as it were, armored. We will try, that is, to avoid that it is possible to use it - if I may say so - as if it were an ATM, and it will have to be bound to the use for which it was born and therefore, essentially, at investment costs, capital expenditure. It will also be carried out (we will find it in the law of stability) an allocation of this fund for seven years, the same duration as the Structural Funds, because it is a national fund that is closely related to the latter. This will enable the authorities managing the programmes to commit these resources to multiannual programming. Of course, we have a problem from this point of view, which is to intervene on the old fund, in order to be able to use, especially in 2014 and 2015, its resources. This allows, in terms of public finance, to have a little more space, so the appropriations for the new fund will start from 2016. It is necessary to warn (because reading the table is not immediately clear) that 2014 and 2015 must instead be covered abundantly by the ability to quickly reuse for infrastructure objectives and environmental defense the old fund. As regards the question relating to the Agency, it gives me the opportunity first of all to clarify. It has often been said, also in the press, that the 120 units, envisaged in the original wording of Article 10 of the more general Decree-Law on the Civil Service, establishing the National Agency for Territorial Cohesion, would be necessary for the Agency. In fact, this information is inaccurate, in the sense that the 120 would, to a large extent, be allocated to the Ministries and central authorities involved in the management of the Structural Funds: therefore, only about twenty of these units would have been planned for the Agency. This is a first thing to clarify. The second is that I personally am not opposed to the use of mobility, but in this particular case an ad hoc training was planned, including through the use of the High School of Public Administration, of young staff with specific skills, because it is difficult to find in the administration qualified and competent people to move in the complex issue of European funds, which actually requires specific skills not simple. In fact, from another point of view, this leads me to say that one of the objectives that we should set ourselves in the future is a strong simplification of the proceduralisation and regulation that comes from the Commission. If this rule were to be rejected, we could of course only be in favour. The reason why we felt that the problem could not be solved only in terms of mobility is linked to the specific qualification characteristics of these people, who should then be young people to use (care, this was provided in the text) exclusively for these functions. We did not want these people, once hired, to be used for anything else. Senator Blundo poses to me the problem of Eagle and the allocation of EUR 100 million that has actually been made for the economic development of the area. The situation is in these terms. I personally attended the last meeting of the Address Committee, which was set up by decree of the previous Minister and met three times already; applications were made for incentive benefits on this fund which were clearly lacking in the documentation necessary for an education in order to be able to grant public funds. I myself asked for the documentation to be integrated and for an investigation to be carried out because we cannot afford to give public money without verifying exactly who and why we grant it. For these reasons there was a delay. However, the investigation has been exhausted, and we have recently had a meeting with the parties in charge of it, namely the Invitalia agency on the one hand and, on the other, the Directorate-General for the stimulation of the entrepreneurial activities of the Ministry for Economic Development. At this point some practices have arrived at their destination, in the sense that they are well-educated so that the resources can be allocated at the next meeting, scheduled for 5 November. With regard to the Gran Sasso tourist facility, the issue is more complex, because the possible participation of Invitalia in the capital requires a specific authorization from the Ministry for Economic Development. This authorisation is linked to an assessment of the actual profitability of the participation, on which at the moment there are concerns, which we are verifying. In any case, if this solution cannot be achieved, it will be possible to turn to the market through a specific call, a special call from the operators concerned (in my opinion the possibility of addressing private operators in competition between them should be the best solution) which, once proven their qualification to take on this investment, would still enjoy the advantage that the famous fund of 100 million euros provides the possibility to finance all the restructuring and modernization of the plant. As you may know, Senator Blundo, there will then be an additional allocation of EUR 60 million, always for the same purpose, on which we will intervene with a regulation different from that previously foreseen for the 100 million, because we mean that this new fund can be spent through wider and more qualified procedures of participation of the operators concerned, and therefore with a greater openness of the process of participation in the allocation of these resources. Senator Merloni poses a very important problem, that of the so-called investment clause, on which, as you will have noticed, the President of the Council and the whole Government have long been engaged. We are in a contradictory situation, I would say almost paradoxical: the European Commission has not so far recognised the division, for the purposes of calculating the deficit on GDP, of the national co-financing of the European Funds. This, in my opinion, is a paradoxical decision, I dare say: it is like wanting to use the brake and the accelerator at the same time. In essence, the European Commission provides structural funds for countries in difficulty which have major problems with territorial cohesion and, at the same time, blocks co-financing - and does not recognise it as detractable - necessary to make the structural funds work and invest, as it is mandatory. The Government is committed to obtaining the structural and non-quota division of the national co-financing of the Structural Funds. Personally, I have also made the proposal to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Saccomanni, to extend this request firmly and forcefully to the Commission, also referring it to the Development and Cohesion Fund, to the extent that this fund will be closely programmed together with the European funds. Moreover, with a rule that will be present in the law of stability, this fund will not have transfers in favour of current expenditure. All this should ensure to the Commission that these are public investments, for which we strongly call for the total separation from the fiscal compact clause. With regard to the question posed by the Senator Council on the Expo, the Minister for Territorial Cohesion was indeed requested and engaged in a project that concerns the possibility of promoting tourist flows linked to the realization of the Expo, bringing visitors also to various areas of the Country, the North and the South, characterized by a particular combination of values linked to food and wine factors, to particular supply chains of agricultural and agro-industrial production, but also to cultural goods of particular value. We have prepared a project that was presented at the meeting that you recalled, held in Milan that had had a positive response from the governing bodies responsible for the Expo. Later we learned that the part relating to the possibility of supporting a collective project of the Regions to present their production specializations in Expo fell. On the other hand, the other part has remained, that is, the Expo in the Regions instead of the Regions in the Expo. For this reason we have prepared an operational project that has obtained the clearance - it has been formally approved by the structures of the Expo - and that will therefore start with an open call to the territories and with a financing, that we are defining, but that should amount, for about twenty cases that will be involved, to approximately 300,000-400,000 euros per case. Finally, this project will be financed - as you asked - with European funds. Senator Uras poses me a huge problem, which was also addressed this morning in the presentation of the SVIMEZ report, namely the very serious situation in which the Mezzogiorno is located, which was already in a serious condition but which comes out even more severely affected by the heavy crisis of recent years. The figures presented by SVIMEZ this morning are very impressive. What to do? Of course, he will understand that it is not easy to answer in a few lines. I would just point out that there are two directions in which the Government is committed from the outset and in which the Minister for Territorial Cohesion is responsible. The first line concerns the renewal and the overall reorganization of the system of funds with an impact, especially in the initial phase, in the coming months and in 2014-2015, with a strong anti-recessive orientation; therefore support for employment and young people and, in the perspective, support for enterprises and structural interventions able to address some nodal issues in the development of the Mezzogiorno, starting from a true valorization of cultural and environmental assets and the valorization of the great resource constituted by agriculture and agro-industry, and then all those productive experiences existing in the Mezzogiorno that can have a future, also in the light of the transformations of the contemporary economy. The second line on which the Government is committed concerns ordinary policies. From this point of view, we will try to intervene in particular on the major constitutionally protected services provided for in our Constitution citizenship rights. In this case, we think that we commit the Government to greater systematic supervision and control of transfers to the Regions of the Mezzogiorno, in the sense that we consider these transfers to be necessary in the light of our Constitution, but we also believe that greater control and responsibility of the National Government are necessary in relation to the allocation of these funds according to efficiency criteria that guarantee the quality of the services and that therefore ensure that the citizens of all the Regions of the Country can have access to services and of the same quality. We believe that greater efforts in this area should also include possible sanctions against administrators who misuse public resources (e.g. refer to health or vocational training) for purposes other than the provision of essential services. We believe that this not only can contribute in the short term to the improvement of the quality of services and save resources in the country's overall public finance, but can end up affecting the quality of the local ruling class, in the sense of discouraging the participation in the management of the public thing of subjects who misuse public resources for welfare purposes and clientele. I reply to Senator Ferrara asking me about the Agency and, more generally, whether we should abandon the previous road for a more convinced centralism. I believe that the things that I said earlier about the need for greater national coordination of European funds and the availability of an instrument such as the Agency, which guarantees control over the efficiency and quality of expenditure, must be understood as an expression not so much of a new centralism, but of the ability of our country to have a national plan, of the ability to use resources according to a national strategy. This is important. National doesn't necessarily mean central. We must assume that there are some things that can be done better, to a more efficient extent, we can design and implement better by coordinating them from the centre, through a national operational programme that has its core in the centre, but there are things for which it is necessary to have information, knowledge, but also adaptations to the specificities of the territories, for which the involvement of regional and local institutional actors is important. But the most important thing is the ability to work together, as shows, for example, the case of Germany, which, as you know, is a federal system, but where there is an ability to organize and coordinate the relations between central structures and regional structures, which is the real strength of a functioning system. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u59	SANTINI (PD). Minister, I very much appreciate your honesty in recognising that these 30 billion are unfortunately still to be used. I combine my voice with yours to say that we must, however, do something. I believe that if for a long time, as is happening, these resources are not used for other uses. There is an infrastructure investment plan that awaits many answers. Secondly, I very much appreciate the fact - here again I join my voice with your ‐ that co-financing outside the Stability Pact and the allocation of capital resources are two strong points on which the Italian Government must be very determined with Europe and within itself, with the other administrations.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u62	BLUNDO (M5S). Minister, thank you for your answer, albeit partial. It has not been clear whether or not Invitalia will be on the board of directors. However, we regret to learn that some projects have been rejected because the practices were not properly educated. The Eagle needs not only a reconstruction of the buildings, but a reconstruction of the productive fabric. Certainly the tourism of the Gran Sasso can be a flywheel if seen in an appropriate manner and treated in the proper ways. Another flywheel can be given back to the city funds to recover those architectural, historical and religious structures that represent its characteristic. We are talking about funds that may also be directed to architectural typicality.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u65	MERLONI (SCPI). Minister, thank you for your commitment and the Government you represent, for the work you are also doing at European level. I do not think it is necessary to remember that we are still experiencing a structural crisis, although in the presence of some timid signal of recovery. It is important and necessary to use all opportunities by focusing on a few selected objectives on actions, so that we can look to the future and give opportunities for growth and recovery to an entire system.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u68	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am pleased with the Minister's reply, but I regret the part of the project that has not been successful. Expo is a world-class showcase to be exploited and valued. Minister, I hope that in your next work and in your forthcoming ministerial commitments there will be room to resume your speech on the Expo, an event that has seen you very willingly in Milan to sign important agreements.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u71	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, thank you for your reply and for your clarification of the government's commitments. We hope that these commitments will be effective. I made a small sum of the debate on today's question time; there are still EUR 30 billion to be spent on the Structural Funds and EUR 40 billion on the old FAS funds: EUR 70 billion, overall. That is one of the reasons for this country's ruin.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u74	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Minister, while I said earlier that former bureaucrat politicians did not like me very much, I am very pleased with your speech as former professor minister. I am satisfied because I hope and am convinced that your words, with the help of Parliament, can follow the facts.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u75	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank the Minister for Territorial Cohesion, Professor Trigilia, for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u76	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission and the Parliamentary Committee for Childhood and Adolescence are again convened on Tuesday 22 October, at 2 p.m., in the headquarters of Palazzo San Macuto, in Via del Seminario, to proceed to the relative constitution. I also communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Central Initiative is again convened on Tuesday 22 October, at 2 p.m., in the headquarters of Palazzo Valdina, Sala Soprachiesa, to proceed to the relative constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u77	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-128.ana.u78	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 22 October, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.11 p.m.
