ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 18 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u6	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have asked the President of the Senate, on behalf of my former colleagues, Mr PdL, Mr Lega and Mr LAG, to reconvene the Presidency Council to check the serious irregularities in relation to the violation of the secrecy that has been experienced in the Council Chamber of the Election Council. President, we cannot oppose a wall of silence and indifference, because the President of the Senate is the guarantor of compliance with the Rules of Procedure and the admissibility of acts. The secrecy of a board chamber is functional to the third-party character of the board chamber itself. The request was made in accordance with the combined provisions of Rules 8 and 12 of the Rules of Procedure. Even if the President of the Senate had considered the lack of competence in this case of the Presidency Council, he would have had to define the question by a vote, resolving the question referred to him by Vice President Fedeli, among other things. There is no doubt that an issue on the agenda of a collegiate body can only be resolved by one vote. If it remains indefinite, as it has remained, it blocks any other possibility, and I ask the President of the Senate to tell us which body is to decide on the serious irregularities that are being consumed. Mr President, we cannot deal with the resolution of 27 November, which concerns the forfeiture and, therefore, the removal of a Member of Parliament, unless we first resolve a fundamental issue concerning these irregularities. For the dignity of this institution and of this House a non-answer is a slap in the face of the institutions! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u7	Senator Alberti Casellati, I gave you the floor exceptionally, because at this stage it can only be requested by a Parent Company. However, since there is uncertainty as to the definition of the group leaders that are being formed, I have allowed you to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u10	FLORIS (PdL). Mr President, I would like to make a speech in memory of the victims of the flood in Sardinia to which the President-in-Office of the Council has today dedicated his day of national mourning. I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and all the senators who wanted me to share in their mourning for what has happened. The thought goes to the victims, to the family members, to those who have suffered damage and who still suffer from the damage. I would like to thank the Budget Commission which wanted to allocate and supplement the funds provided by the Presidency of the Council to overcome this moment of emergency for so many people who have suffered and suffer from so many difficulties. We certainly have an economy on our knees, because big companies are in crisis, and you all know that, and many companies, especially agricultural-pastoral companies, that held up that bit of economy possible on our island, have been swept away. I think it is appropriate to point out that the necessary resources, difficult to find in our law of stability, could be found (and I spoke with the President of the Sardinian Region, but also with some colleagues) within the framework of European resources. The funds reprogrammed for action by Minister Trigilia could in this case be destined for the refreshment of damages, not only for Sardinia, but also for the many other regions of our country subject to devastation for earthquakes or floods, and represent a useful finalization that would increase the Italy system. Mr President, in conclusion, I would ask you to have a minute's silence as a sign of solidarity for the victims of the flood in Sardinia.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u11	Senator Floris, several requests for intervention have come to the Presidency, all legitimate. However, we now need to suspend the sitting because the Conference of Leaders is under way. At the time of the resumption, we will give the opportunity to speak to those who have asked for it and we will be able to have the presence of all our fellow Members in the Chamber with respect to this moment of remembrance, which I hope will be carried out by President Grasso. So, pending the conclusions of the Conference of Leaders, convened at 9.30 a.m., I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.46 a.m. and resumed at 10.54 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u12	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in memory of the victims of the flood that struck the Region of Sardinia, the Senate gathers with deep emotion to express its closeness and participation to the population, families and citizens. Their pain, their anguish, the sense of desolation that surrounded their existence impose certain answers on all institutions. Answers of truth: on the responsibilities, ancient and recent, for what could be done - and never was done - and for what should not have been allowed and instead allowed. Answers of truth: on immediate and urgent remedies for the care of people, the security of citizens, the protection of territories, the resumption of essential and fundamental activities. Answers of truth: on the concrete, serious, definitive commitments that the institutions must declare and realize without uncertainties and delays. The dignity and strength of the Sardinian people are not only an exemplary witness to us: they are an absolute warning that obliges us to carry out with correctness and speed the duty of solidarity which, towards the affected population, is a precise moral duty. In remembrance of the victims and as a sign of closeness to the Sardinian population I invite you to observe a minute of silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u13	The Conference of the Leaders took note of the state of play on the draft budget and stability laws in the 5th standing Commission following the statement by the President of the Commission Azzollini and the Government. The Assembly is therefore convened on Monday 25 November, at 3 p.m., with the joint debate on draft budget and stability legislation on the agenda, where concluded by the Commission. In that case, the deadline for tabling amendments shall be 12 noon on Monday. The Conference of the Leaders will be convened again on Monday 25 November to define the continuation of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u14	I address, on behalf of the Assembly, a greeting to the students of the Istituto comprentico Statale "Paolo Ruffini" of Valentano, in the province of Viterbo, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u15	Since, at the beginning of the session, Senator Alberti Casellati requested a reply to a letter that was signed, as well as by Senator Alberti Casellati herself, by Senators Gasparri, Calderoli, Barani, Gentile, Malan, Mussolini and Stucchi, I prefer to make the answer available to the Assembly of the Senate instead of making it known, as happened in my case, first to the press agencies and then to those directly concerned. Therefore, I would prefer to respond by making known to the House the arguments that the Presidency has put in black and white. I shall therefore read the letter of 15 November, which is already addressed to the senators. At the request of Vice-President Gasparri, at the Conference of Leaders on 5 November, a "information on the use of the network during the session of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on 4 October 2013" was placed on the agenda of the Presidency Council on the same day. This information had already been submitted to the Conference of Leaders at its meeting on 15 October. No points had been made here. As stated by the Presidency, the aforementioned information was given to the Council as the competent body to assess the possible adoption of disciplinary sanctions pursuant to Articles 12, paragraph 1, and 67, paragraph 4, of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. During the discussion, which began at the meeting on 5 November and continued by the Presidency Council the following day, none of the members made any disciplinary proposals to the members of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in relation to what emerged in the information. Having said that, I respond to the various procedural and regulatory points raised in the letter. From the regulatory point of view, the formula of the "information" never preludes to a vote (see for the Commissions Article 46, paragraph 3, of the Regulation and for the Assembly the institute of the "emergency information of the Government," developed in practice), unlike other forms of communication for which the Rules of the Senate expressly provides the possibility to provoke a vote through a given procedural path (see, for example, Article 105 of the Rules of Procedure for the Communications of the Government to the Assembly). Moreover, even if it had been considered to open a sanction procedure, the Presidency Council could not have acted immediately without first hearing the senators concerned. To this end, the President should have convened the Presidency Council with the dispatch of a special agenda. It is therefore surprising that, in the absence of any document or question to be put to the vote in that Chamber, the letter refers to the failure to conclude the meeting of 6 November 'because of the lack of quorum and the consequent failure of the structural quorum'. Moreover, if the signatories of the letter did not consider that they had abandoned the work, they would have had the opportunity to listen to the other members present, noting that the alleged lack of quorum and the fact that the subject on the agenda were to be considered as concluded. The question is also raised, also in the course of the aforementioned debate, of the alleged irregularity of the resolution adopted by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on 4 October 2013, which - bearing in mind a sentence quoted in the letter - "should be declared inadmissible for serious violations of the obligation of secrecy of the meeting." From the formal point of view, the response of any irregularities of a vote and the consequent possibility of "renewing" it after cancellation, as provided for in Article 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, in addition to having to be "immediate" and decided by the President of the competent body, mainly concerns the violation of voting procedures. The point has already been clarified before the Presidency Council with the sharing of Vice President Calderoli himself. If, on the other hand, it is intended to refer to the "receiveability" not so much of the resolution, but rather of the subject of the vote of the Junta, namely the report on the contested election in the Molise Region presented by the president of the Junta, Senator Stefano (Doc. III, No 1), I recall that this document was deposited by the rapporteur on 15 October and has long been printed and distributed pending the debate by the Assembly, which has already been scheduled for 27 November. Furthermore, it should be noted that the judgment on the "receiveability of texts" which Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure entrusts to the President of the Senate concerns the correspondence of form to the content, the competence of the presenters, the regularity of signatures, the consistency of wording. As for the so-called "secretity of the meeting" in the chamber of council, there is no express reference to the obligation of secrecy in the Rules for the verification of powers. Article 17 paragraph one of the Rules of Procedure for the verification of powers is limited to establishing that "closed the discussion, the Junta meets immediately in the chamber of council for the decision." This provision clearly concerns the publication of works, as opposed to paragraph 6 of Article 16 of the same Regulation, which provides that "the summary of the public sitting shall be drawn up and published." This also in analogy with the provisions of Articles 57, 60, paragraph 4, and 165, paragraph 2 of the Regulation. The statue of Article 31 (3) of the Rules of the Senate is quite different, not applied in the case in question, which expressly provides that the "Commissions may decide that for certain documents, news or discussions concerning the State, their members are bound by secrecy." To quote another special regulation, also the single text concerning the Senate staff, establishes with an explicit rule (art. 86) the "obligation of secrecy" for members of the Disciplinary Board, of the Commission, of the Guarantee Council and for officials of the Secretarial Offices, experts, technical advisers, defenders, and for anyone intervening or assisting in the proceedings "for all matters relating to the acts themselves and their results." Already at the Council meeting on 6 November, the Presidency called for caution when reference is made to rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure (in this case Article 125, paragraph 4, invoked by Senator Mussolini to represent an alleged violation of the "impermeability" of the Chamber of Council) with reference to a procedure such as that of the Junta which is still parliamentary in nature. In any case, as can be seen from the information read by the Presidency, it does not appear that members of the Junta have detected elements which refer in any way to the work of the Council Chamber. As for the power to "regulate the activity of all its organs," which always Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure assigns to the President of the Senate, the President took note of the attestation of President Stephen, who specified in his report that the meeting in the chamber of council "all the members of the Junta participated, having been present from the beginning and for the duration of the public session". This is in fact the express requirement provided for in paragraph 2 of the aforementioned Article 17 of the Regulation for the verification of powers, to guarantee the regularity of the decision. On the other hand, even if the President-in-Office had decided to impose sanctions under Rule 67 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, it would not have been possible to detect an irregularity in the sitting or in the deliberations of the body. We recall the resounding case of the afternoon session of the Assembly of 14 October 2004, when a Holding Company was expelled from the Chamber together with four other Senators during the explanations of vote on the government's confidence with impediment to participation in the call and with subsequent condemnation by the Board of President (of the Holding Company alone, due to the particular gravity of its behaviour) to the ban to participate in the Senate's proceedings for one day. Not even in such a case has the regularity of the sitting or of the deliberations ever been questioned. Finally, with regard to the competence of the Presidency Council, it has already been clarified, at its meeting on 6 November, how the diction of Article 12 (1) of the Rules of Procedure should be interpreted, where it is stated that the Council "examines all other matters that are referred to it by the President." Not by chance, in relation to the exhaustive list of the powers of the Presidency Council referred to in Article 12 above - all of an administrative sensual nature - the Rules use verbs which involve a vote ("deliberate," "approve", "name" and "adopt" measures), while for the other questions, if any, they use the verb "exam." However, there is no precedent as to other matters referred to in Article 12. This category certainly cannot include, even incidentally (if not presumptuously) the evaluation of the work of another Senate body such as the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunities. There is therefore no reference to a new convening of the Presidency Council with a view to the continuation of a debate on an issue already formally declared closed on 6 November, in the absence of any proposals of a disciplinary nature following the information given by the President. With the best regards. The letter concludes with the President's signature. That's the answer note. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] Of course, it will come to each of the signatories.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u18	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we will reserve the right to put it further, which we still have to determine what it will be. [[Comments from the PD Group]] , his answer that comes today. Of course, we have further innovations in parliamentary procedures, such as the fact that the quorum is not present. I also point out that Senator Mussolini, for example, had proposed sanctions, and among them the annulment of the vote of the senators who had communicated with the outside world. Therefore, the proposals had been put forward. I recall that Vice-President Fedeli had raised a question for a preliminary ruling, and the questions referred for a preliminary ruling - says the Rules of Procedure - are voted on: they can be rejected, but they are voted on. I also note that, in his view, no sanctions must be imposed on those responsible for communicating with the outside world. It is a very authoritative opinion of yours, but it must be decided by the Presidency Council, and it cannot be cut off from a letter of reply a week after the event has taken place. I am shocked to hear these arguments. I would also remind you that President Stefano - who certainly had the right to suspend the sitting and take decisions on this matter - could not be informed of what was going on outside, precisely because of the prohibition of communicating with the outside world. So, according to your thesis, President, if any of the members of the Council had had a bidirectional connection with the outside for the whole session, since President Stefano being inside the courtroom could not know, everything would have been perfectly regular. In his opinion, moreover, whatever happens in a Commission, the results of the votes cannot in any way be the subject of a rethinking or annulment. Therefore, it can happen in a Commission - for example in the deliberating forum, i.e. when it is expressed on behalf of the entire Senate - that a law is passed and its President goes crazy and carries out a total violation, saying, for example, that 5 votes in favour count more than 20 against. It is a very disturbing fact, a further innovation ad personam because the case concerns Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups]] As a result, there is no need for a quorum, there is no question of prejudice, there is no way to evaluate the work, even irregularly, of a Senate body. We reserve the right to take further action on this matter, because we cannot accept that this is the end of the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u19	Senator Malan, I am sorry to have to say in this House what has already emerged, namely that it was you who informed Senator Stefano during the sitting of what was going on outside. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, Senator Stefano had every reason to suspend the session if necessary. However, I do not want to go into the debate. [[Senator Stefano's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u22	BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you have read us a long formal pappard to circumvent the substance of an issue which, precisely because of its formal value, is eminently political. On the work of the Junta you have shown that you are not aware of the damage to the Rules of Procedure of the Junta itself and the Senate, with a member of the Junta itself acting as if he were not a member of a Judicial Junta, and today, refusing to reconvene the work of the Presidency Council, according to the request of one of the most important parliamentary groups, shows that you want to hastily close a formal and political issue that, precisely, cannot be closed so hastily. You, Mr President, will be referred to as the President of the Senate who has allowed and allowed, in the case of the clear vote, the violation of one of the most characteristic principles of the parliamentary life of our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Mr President, when you become Presidents of the Senate, as well as Presidents of the highest institutions, you become politicians and institutional leaders over the political parties. You have not shown in this case that you are above the political parties. You have shown that you are a partisan, just as you have shown that you have never given up any clothes, style and method of a magistrate in this House, while we are discussing the future of the country, values and matters of the right of the political life of our country. [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]] I repeat, Mr President: you will be remembered as a partisan, as a partisan. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent work. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u23	Someone said: "To posterity the arduous sentence". [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Senator Bondi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u26	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am not going to mention Manzoni or anyone else because I am not a poet but a Member of Parliament and I am sticking to a number of facts. I shall therefore speak on the order of business. Thank you for your reply, which we have been waiting for a long time; your letter, as Senator Malan has already said, is so rich in procedural and regulatory references that it will obviously require on every aspect of our assessments and opinions. I say to you, however, that I did not appreciate it when you said that presumptuously - this is the adverb you used, I do not know from which poem - a question had been raised. I didn't put it presumptuously: you had the courtesy to remember that I was the one who asked the question - and I am addressing Senator Zanda, whom I do not see in this Chamber at the moment - at a meeting of the Conference of Leaders (in which the Vice Presidents participate). At this meeting, I asked whether the events of secrecy deserved further consideration and in which body; you accepted my assessment and arranged for the meeting of the Presidency Council. If my proposal had been presumptuous, you would not have given rise to the meeting, which - I acknowledge this - called to discuss the substance of the matter. Having put it on the agenda, we believe (but we have already written this to you, I believe we will repeat it, in the Chamber and in the appropriate seats) that, once a subject had been placed, it had to have its own conclusion, if ever to be rejected, that issue, for assessments, which you had already expressed at the meeting, whether or not it was justified, the profiles of secrecy or not, the competences of the President of the Council or others. It is not that if a vote is taken it is certain that it is right: a vote can result in one type or another. That outcome was not there, because that day the meeting of the Presidency Council continued, and I myself, President, as someone had to chair the Chamber and all of us Vice Presidents were busy with you, I came to chair the Chamber and I asked you to tell me when I was voting at that stage, because I would have to suspend the sitting for a few moments to go and exercise my right. I remember perfectly well that you said to me, with the same kindness, that you would have informed me if the vote had been taken in that sitting. There was no vote because there was no quorum. So this clearly implied the need to come back to the meeting and decide on the matter. We talked about it in the Chamber: several colleagues raised the problem, including President Schifani. As I presided over the work of the House at that time, I did not give an answer in fairness, because it was an answer that never, as in this case, belongs not to the presidency of the Senate but to the President of the Senate, as indeed happened today. When I presided over the work, I explicitly said that I would not express myself because I did not want to superimpose my personal opinion, having raised the case, to the prerogative of the Presidency. I think that was an act of fairness and respect, which is worth more than the fact if the letter came out first on an agency: here everything comes out. We have raised this issue in the light of day, Mr President, with statements and positions which are always respectful, as far as I am concerned, of his person and of his function, but which are very firm on the subject. I conclude by saying that we all understand what is behind this issue, and Senator Malan said it: clear vote, secret vote; procedure of one type, procedure of another. There is a serious way of violating procedures, and the rules, in an Assembly, which is the Senate of the Republic, are fundamental. So, I take note of your answer, and I thank you for answering us, even though we were already expecting an assessment that day, and you did not give it to us. We will assess from the regulatory point of view, because there are many things that have been said that we do not believe correct, fair and founded, and already some I would be able to illustrate them now, but we will do so in an even more complete way, on the nature of the information, on his surprise, on the non-susistence of this or that circumstance: all facts that we do not believe are justified. But frankly, we want to tell everyone to be very careful: the Senate can decide what it will decide, but procedures and rules are fundamental. We, in addition to the things that Senator Bondi has clearly said, will return to these issues, and we say so in a public way, in the Senate Chamber, without further letters, but claiming the defence of rules that frankly in his speech I do not think have all been respected. The matter is questionable, we respect your opinion, but we keep ours, because it is a matter of truth, legality, transparency, and we will not tolerate abuses in terms of rules: let this be clear from now on. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u29	Comrade (GAL). Mr President, our Group thanks you, but only in part, for the clarification of this morning because, at least in our opinion (and it was clear from everyone in the debate that had taken place when Mr Calderoli presided), the question posed, or rather re-proposed, this morning by Senator Alberti Casellati is of a different kind than the wide and praiseworthy excursus of law and parliamentary procedure (I do not like sarcasm, so I will not speak of formal pappardella, but I very much respect the game between the adjective "formal" and the adjective "substantial" to which Mr Bondi has appealed, which, if I may say so, Mr President, did not deserve a Manzonian irony from those who presided over the work). The point raised by our eight colleagues, which is an important component of the Presidency Council, and which has brought back this morning to the House my colleague, Mrs Alberti Casellati, is this: we are asking for a decision, a decision by a collegiate body. We can say that the collegial body must be another, and we accept it, but its wide and documented response, which is far from pappardella (I hope to win the chair of parliamentary law with former colleague Andrea Manzella judge or whatever he wants) is quite lateral; it is his opinion, as Gasparri says, a clarification on which every single member of this House and the whole Senate has full right to return when, after listening to it - and we thank you - he will have the opportunity to re-read it and reflect on it. There is a fundamental misunderstanding here. You lexically repeat, with a legal culture certainly superior to mine, and perhaps to ours, which is a chamber of council, and then you say that the notion of chamber of council is not indispensable the secret. Here I feel like sinking, because, with full respect for the freedom of conduct, for the goodness of my colleague, Crimi, I wonder how we can support this argument. In this regard I have to make a rude joke, I do it to dedramatize: perhaps you have more experience as proxy than as a boardroom, because the boardroom is a moment of judgment in which the secret is indispensable. I would use the adjectives 'formal' and'substantial' used by my colleague Bondi, if they didn't seem to be an interruption of doubt. Moreover, bad taste for bad taste, you told my colleague Malan the truth, because I was not in Junta but I know that Malan on October 4 could not but turn to President Stefano, because the President of the Senate, as was probably his legitimate right, was in Assisi that day, was not in the Senate, and of this they informed us all the news. I therefore have the impression that from this point of view your speech (for which we thank you) may be useful, but the question remains open in all respects; they are profiles of form because, as Mr Manzella would have taught you, parliamentary law is nothing more than procedure and procedures are serious things, and when a man who has the political experience of Gasparri clings to the procedures, I who have another political formation cannot be less than his colleague and - if you will allow me - friend Gasparri. [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u32	SCHIFANI (NCD). Mr President, I spoke about this debate in your absence, so first of all I took note of your detailed reply, which, in my opinion, does not deal with the key and central point that I set out in my speech. I look forward to your comments on the silence of the members of the People of Freedom present in the Junta during internal debates at the Council of Presidency, because, if I may, silence does not mean renunciation to the exercise of their possibilities of contestation: it is not a matter of silence-consent. My colleagues then spoke at the appropriate time to reiterate their ideas, their relevant comments on the excursus of the work of the election board. You reminded us that information was provided on the agenda of the Presidency Council, which, as such, does not require a vote. This is perfectly correct, and we acknowledge it, but I expected from you an answer that would address the subject of which I now allow myself to remind you of the strategicity of the content. First of all, I note that you consider this to be a closed issue, when, from what I have learned from colleagues, the Presidency Council ended with nothing in fact due to the lack of quorum. My colleagues had abandoned the Presidency Council and had been suspended due to the absence of a quorum. There had also been some confusion at the end of the work, but one fact is certain, at least as far as I was told, because I did not participate, namely that the quorum when the Presidency Council closed was not there. But let's get to the subject, Mr. President. As Senator Malan has rightly said, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the anomaly of the holding of a chamber of council, a body which - allow me, President - is not a parliamentary body and which, precisely on the occasion of its meeting in that Chamber for the revocation procedure takes on, inter alia, in accordance with well-established legal guidelines, a judicial function: we cannot speak of a parliamentary function precisely when, colleagues, after the public hearing of the parties and their defenders, that body closes in the conclave of the chamber of council and there, in the secret provided for in analogy with Article 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is obliged to discuss and decide, by a majority or unanimously, on the outcome of the conflict. Let's put this on the table. At a time when this secret is being violated, even clearly, as Mr Malan said, with colleagues speaking outside and the President of the Junta itself is not aware of it because it is closed in the secrecy of the Junta itself, who then detects this anomaly? And who is called to intervene to possibly infect this anomaly? The President himself in self-protection, because he realizes that there has been an anomaly, or a different organ, hierarchically (or not hierarchically, but politically) superior to the election committee? We have a rule of law that is envied by so many abroad for our right and our codes; there would be so much to say, but one fact is certain: we know the degrees of judgment, we know the degrees of appeal, we know that the citizen is allowed to exercise the right of appeal compared to any judgments he considers unfair. Well, why then does this matter lack the opportunity to have an answer, the answer I asked in that Chamber, Mr President? In the presence of such anomalies someone must explain to me what is the body responsible for judging the validity and significance of an anomaly, serious in this case, because the obligation of secrecy of the work of a body that at that time exercised a judicial function, therefore subject to analogic compliance with Article 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is the subject which I have raised, Mr President, and which I do not agree with, and which, in your reply, is full of references to Rules of Procedure, and which therefore remains unsolved. However, it is a significant issue, on which I insist to have an answer, because this is to guarantee the functioning of a delicate organ, which deals with sensitive issues and which tomorrow can be affected by other anomalies without us having had the opportunity to know in these cases who should be addressed. I say this in order to protect the dignity of any Member of Parliament in these situations. Mr President, I believe that this is a right and duty of this House, and I believe that the Presidency Council should return to its meeting, after receiving from you the request that my fellow Members, in a formal and official way, have made to you for a re-convocation of the Presidency Council. Mr President, let us put this issue: give us an answer, because I believe that this issue will certainly be addressed again when we touch even more sensitive issues, which concern the implementation of this Junta measure, which we will be prepared to oppose and challenge on the substance from the beginning of the procedural stage of this affair. [[Applause from the NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u33	As Senator Compagna mentioned Professor Manzella, I recall that he teaches that the House is sovereign in a Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u34	Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). The House did not vote on the use of the clear vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u37	ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, even in the light of this morning's debate and, last but not least, what Senator Schifani said in detail, we consider his answer to be unsatisfactory first and then incomplete. You still have to tell us, if you do not recognise the competence of the Presidency to decide on this matter, which body is responsible for deciding on the complaints of irregularities that have taken place in this area of Parliament. You have not responded to this point and we ask once again for a re-convocation because we consider your reply to be insufficient. [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u40	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking personally as a member of the Presidency Council, a body that is being accused at this moment by so many colleagues, both members of the Presidency Council and not members of the former Pdl Group, now forza Italia and Nuovo CentroDestra Groups. I've heard of legality and transparency. I have tried to listen very carefully, as I hope the other Members have done, to the very detailed letter that the President wanted to read here, and for which I thank him. When, in the presence of a request from Senator Gasparri, but in the absence of any document or other written act to bring it back, that Presidency Council was convened, some of us had some doubts, but they wanted to deal with the subject, at the request of President Grasso, in compliance with criteria of transparency, openness and willingness to debate. These were the reasons why we thought we should take account of a discussion that many of us felt was useless, precisely because the acts had already been there. I fear that, sometimes, there is a short memory: already in the sitting after the one so pronounced, President Stefano had had the validation of the minutes of the previous session of the election committee by the same members who have now said things perhaps a bit different. I just wanted to give my testimony to the sitting of the Presidency Council, to which I was present, because there was no violation, unless we were at another sitting and we did not notice it. I believe that this must be said very seriously in this House. Let us not misread certain facts or give the interpretations that each one intends to give. Some of our colleagues have risen, not being satisfied with what we and other members had decided in that Presidency Council, and if we did not proceed to the vote it was simply because we did not have the title to vote on this issue... MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). You asked for the vote! DI GIORGI (PD). ...we didn't really have the title, because that wasn't the right place and because, however, if we had voted there wouldn't have been the majorities that someone instead foreshadows. I therefore believe that the President's letter must be read very carefully, because it is exhaustive and absolutely faithful to the holding of the sitting of that Presidency Council. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u43	Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like very calmly to remind all our colleagues and other colleagues who have participated that Senator Di Giorgi, in addition to Senator Fedeli, have made a preliminary reference. When there is a preliminary ruling, it means not only that there is competence... [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] At this point, Mr President, given the ease with which you are interpreting the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which is the greatest expression of the way in which we behave, how we function and how we function and how we coordinate it, I am amazed that you, knowing all this, have raised the question of the report of violations that have been carried out at the famous meeting of the Chamber of Council twice. Also because otherwise it would not make sense his report, where he kept well in mind and distinguished the phases of public session and that (started around 11.30) of the council chamber. Not only that: dear Senator, and dear President, you know perfectly well (if you do not know we tell you) that we, despite having a formal document signed by all our members of the Presidency Council, could not present it because then there was no quorum and because no vote was ever taken in the Presidency Council. How can you, Mr President, be so superficial as to say, too, that the House is sovereign? It is sovereign whenever you want, but when it was decided to vote clearly on the decadence of Senator Berlusconi, the House did not speak! This is another very serious violation! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] If the House is sovereign, it will be this House that will have to settle a previous step. Before the famous vote, which may take place on a date to be decided (at this point), we must settle these that are not our excuses, but stick to the Senate's Rules of Procedure. And you, President, are the person who has to protect these rules, don't say: The House thinks about it. I don't decide. And if you do not decide, why have you twice put the report of violations on the agenda? I myself said what sanctions could be. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the Presidency Council (I repeat the question my colleagues asked). And if it is not up to the Council, what is the body? If they play it and the election committees sing it and for the Rules of Procedure, or who? President Stefano was not aware. There wasn't an irregular way to vote, but with respect to the behavior kept in the boardroom. Mr President, I have to understand that very well. This was not a vote expressed in a way that was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but it was the fact that a clear violation - as Senator Gasparri and Senator Schifani very clearly pointed out - of a secrecy procedure was committed during the board. So, since lawyers and experts are present here, let's not pretend to be like the donkey in the middle of the sounds, because it's also a bit petty and mortifying. So, Mr President, enforce the rules or, if you do not want to assume the responsibilities that are yours, make the Senate Assembly decide. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u46	TAVERNA (M5S). President, please excuse me. I have listened and tried in every way to avoid any comment, because I believe that the representatives of Forza Italia, Nuovo Centrorightstra or PdL (what they will become in the wake of this legislature is not given to know) answer themselves. However, since we must respect everything (we must respect the Rules of Procedure, we must respect this Assembly), then we must begin to respect the law! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Here you are trying to make a bow around something that is now established. Gentlemen, you must accept only one thing: according to the Severino law, Senator Berlusconi will no longer be senator! He's fallen! It was decided by the Junta, it was decided by a law and the Italian people ask for it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We can postpone for another one or two days. You are now teasing the Italian people about the bill of stability by sending it forward and exploiting whatever is done in here, by virtue of the fact that you do not want to accept that things are changing. This is demonstrated by the presence in this House of 50 citizens who, without hiding behind the Regulations, the fine words or the twists of words, come to tell you that the law begins to respect it starting from the decadence of Senator Berlusconi on 27 November next! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Malan's comments. Protests from the M5S Group]] Senator Malan, please repeat what you have said to me, if you dare! [[Comments of Senators Ferrara Mario and Cardiello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u49	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, I would like to speak not to reiterate what has just been said, but to recommend... (Exciting exchanges of jokes between Senators Ferrara Mario and Santangelo). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ferrara, let Senator D'Anna speak. Senator D'Anna, do your surgery. D'ANNA (GAL). I would also like to be heard, but that is not possible right now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you don't speak, you can't be heard. D'ANNA (GAL). It doesn't seem to me that circumstances are being used. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They're running. Please, we want to hear your authoritative voice. D'ANNA (GAL). I wanted to say to my colleague Taverna, who spoke so vehemently, that you have a very hasty concept of democracy, first of all because you are not the interpreter of the Italian people: we all are. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Let us speak and stop interrupting, otherwise you force me to tell you the story of the Marquis de Condorcet, who was a revolutionary unrepentant and insolent National Assembly, even Robespierre. One day, addressing Robespierre, he said: If you were my husband, I would have given you a poisoned drink. Robespierre replied, "If she had been my wife, I would have drunk it." Now, in order to bring back a bit of the discussion within the canons of correctness, this rushing idea of democracy, of the fact that each of us arrogates the right to interpret the Italian people, is quite clumsy. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] If you let us talk and stop, do us a favor, also because if you listen more you will understand something. So be quiet. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] In this House, the question of the violation of a body that is part of the Senate has been raised. We are accustomed to parliamentary democracy, and not to assembly democracy where it is enough to connect with a computer and we have solved the problem. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] The real question is this. [[Comments of Senator Crimes]] Be quiet. The senator doesn't know what, the fart guy, I don't remember his name...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u50	Senator Bottici, please intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u51	D'ANNA (GAL). The question is, the senator broke a rule. We want to know who is the body that must sanction this distorted behaviour, Mr President: no more and no less. I, who are a hill among the highest peaks of legal science, would like to know, as a senator, who must sanction this behavior, unless this falls within the hive of normal behavior and there has been no violation. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u52	I think we've begun to warm our spirits for future appointments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u53	D'ANNA (GAL). But you don't have to comment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't comment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u56	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak immediately after Senator Floris about the very serious situation that has arisen in Sardinia. Thank you for your words this morning when we resumed our work. I can only associate myself with his words and those of Senator Floris about the dramatic situation that Sardinia is experiencing today as a result of the calamitous events of recent days, and that unfortunately have not yet ended, since even today there is a weather warning of high seriousness and obviously this does nothing but increase the discomfort and anguish of the Sardinian population. This catastrophe has affected a population and a region already strongly experienced by the economic crisis, so much to have the Head of State say, a few months ago, that Sardinia was the Region that suffered the most from the economic crisis in Italy. Sardinia therefore already suffered the effects of that crisis: the Head of State himself had expressed the need for extraordinary interventions in favour of Sardinia. Moreover, I must acknowledge President Letta - I thank him and all the members of his government team - of the extraordinary and timely sensitivity manifested in the immediacy, from Tuesday morning, with the allocation of a sum definitely very low and certainly not enough to cope with even the first emergencies. However, I believe that the interest shown on Tuesday morning is extremely important. Of course, this sensitivity has also shown it by ensuring its presence and that of many representatives of the Government in the days immediately following the catastrophic events, so as to make the population feel the closeness of the institutions and the willingness to immediately remedy what happened. I believe that it is also necessary to thank all my fellow senators, particularly those of the Group to which I belong, because, since the first hours of Tuesday morning, the leader Zanda, who was also Sardinian, was also a diligent member of the President-in-Office of the Council for the adoption of the measures which were then taken. The Sardinian, notoriously, is a proud people, accustomed to facing hardships and sacrifices. However, at this dramatic moment alone we could hardly get up and make it. The economy of entire territories in Gallura, in Barbagia, where I live, in Oristano has been brought to its knees. The rural road network has been totally wiped out, the crops destroyed, the farms isolated and unattainable. All situations that ensured the survival of entire communities. In the face of this dramatic situation, extraordinary and urgent measures are needed to allow recovery, before ordinary life and then the economy. I trust that this Government knows, and wants, to follow the words made concrete to restore hope and also new vigour to Sardinia, which today is really on its knees, tormented by this unprecedented catastrophe. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u59	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Sunday evening Sardinia was hit by cyclone Cleopatra. True, cyclone is always a natural disaster, but it is not natural that houses, bridges, roads and sixteen human beings die. No, it's not a calamity. We can't, in 2013, think it's a calamity. The torrential rain shouldn't kill anyone. From us, in Sardinia, water is a blessing and has always been a blessing, because in our land water, rain are life: life for the fields, life for the woods, life for rivers, streams, waterfalls. The Sardinian land is a jewel of priceless beauty, a diamond of earth surrounded by coasts and crystal clear sea. But here, gentlemen, there is a "ma", a "ma" big, dark, black, and it is the pain that we see today, it is fear, anger, humiliation that today all of us Sardinians look at as witnesses. Sixteen people, sixteen lives have been lost. Cities, countries, small farms, animals lost in an unheard-of vortex of water. Why? Because the houses are built in impossible places, because the streams dry in summer are transformed and requalified in a possible PUC, granting plans of building impossible for logic, if the logic was to protect our territory. Olbia, which for the Galluresi is Newfoundland, since the times of the Roman Empire has expanded by multiplying over forty years, due to the jubilation of some and the indifference of many, on a plain destined to collect the flow of the water of the Upper Gallura, indifference of any reasonable planning because lottifications, condones, conformity checks have started this disaster. In this story, gentlemen, I would like to tell you the story of a careful father, educated to what is the salvation of his son Henry, three years old; a father who just begins to see the rain fall thinks he can save his child - I repeat, three years old - taking him to his grandparents on the hill, but he does not succeed, gentlemen, because the sinkhole of water begins to arrive in his car. But he comes out, screams, calls for help because Francis, Henry's father, protects his son in a jacket, embraces him safely, but nobody can give him a hand because the tops are not enough and the worker of ANAS says that there is nothing to do. Gentlemen, it is not possible to continue to say in 2013: there is nothing to do! I think of all Italy, I think of Liguria, Veneto and all the devastated territories. Gentlemen, we can't keep talking and chatting. It is not possible because we must have the conscience that roads, bridges, woods, landscapes all, are the life of our territory, not only of Sardinia, but of all the territory of Italy that we are devastating. Please, let us not repeat the tragic and hypocritical phrase, as happened to Henry, Francis, Piero and all the others: In a calamity nothing can be done. Stop. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Petraglia and Razzi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u62	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I wanted to clarify what Senator Taverna said. During your speech, addressed to you, I gave an adjective referring to a well-known totalitarian regime of the past. It was not an assessment of his person, Senator (and if it was interpreted in this sense, I apologise), but of his reasoning. Classifying formalism rules and law is a totalitarian reasoning. Your person doesn't allow me to judge you as a person. You qualify with your political activity and, for better or worse, it is not up to me to evaluate you. I am referring to a reasoning which I consider to be dangerous. To judge forms a formality is to go against everything on which democracy is based. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Compagna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u65	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, I appreciate the senator's attempt to apologise, as well as the senate's quaestor, Malan. But I must point out to you, Senator Malan, that when you referred to an attitude and, possibly, to a reasoning that in your opinion can have a totalitarian form, you had at least to use a male adjective. When she refers to my person, she looks at me and calls me a Nazi, objectively I take it as a slightly more personal matter. Thank you for apologizing. However, I would like to question the goodness of what you said earlier and the truthfulness of what you said after that. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u68	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, mine is the appeal of a former municipal administrator in budgetary times. In almost all municipalities and in almost all regions, budgets are being made. In times of hunting, of poaching, of continuous extermination of animals, without entering into the controversy about the law n. 157 of 1992, which exists and must be respected, I represent to you what is happening in Rome. Despite the efforts of many associations, the municipal administration, due to economic constraints, risks having to close the only recovery center for wildlife in difficulty. Any one of you who talks to this Centre these days can listen to the stories of the volunteers who collect wounded raptors (pilgrims, buzzards, small cheetahs), protected animals belonging to rare species, which unfortunately by those who shoot without looking are shot, wounded and massacred. Here, my appeal is that good administrators ask that the last - because animals are the last in our cities to ask for help and protection - should not be forgotten in the budgets. The LIPU Wildlife Recovery Centre within the Biopark of Rome cannot and must not close because, in addition to helping animals, it supports citizens who bring these animals there ask to be supported to help lives simply different from human life.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u71	VACCIANO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask, through the Presidency, the answer to our question 4-00177 of 15 May of this year, with which we ask the Government for clarification and indications of any initiatives that are intended to take forward with regard to the issue of executive appointments to the Revenue Agency, which took place without competition but by direct attribution. Not only is this a clearly illegitimate procedure, but such appointments result in effects on acts taken by untitled executives to do so. This case was the subject of judgments by the TAR of Lazio and the Messina Tax Commission, which were challenged before the Council of State by the Revenue Agency. This was because the legislator, in a manner - in my opinion - quite clumsy, intervened to settle the issue in a classical way, i.e. with a sanatoria, among other things posthumous, that has materialized with Law No. 44 of 2012, and in particular with Article 8, paragraph 24. This article stated not only that, in the mores of the implementation of the competition, which should be called by the end of the year, for the appointment of managers, it was possible by way of derogation to appoint staff with managerial positions, but that, in addition to what in practice already existed, additional management posts could be assigned by the derogation procedure. It recalls the date of 18 November 2013, and therefore is a few days ago, the decision of the Council of State n. 5451 that not only rejected the appeals of the Revenue Agency, but also raised the question of constitutional illegitimacy regarding paragraph 24 of Article 8 of the law that I have just cited. I would therefore ask the Presidency to take an active part in urging the Government to respond to our question, also in the light of the last decision of the Council of State. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u74	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, it is actually difficult for me to speak in order to call for a motion to be scheduled, after the words of Senator Serra, but I also do so. I would like to ask the Presidency to take action to schedule a motion (the 1-00162) with which we call for the withdrawal of delegations to Vice-Minister of Infrastructure Vincenzo De Luca. If it's true that it stinks on the right, it stinks on the left. There's a lot of smell in here. We have heard that the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure is being investigated - a guarantee notice is not denied to anyone - for serious facts, for which we have also submitted four parliamentary questions and 23 complaints have been lodged to the Republic's Public Prosecutor, who has only now moved. I seem to recall some administrative inertia in the past, given the role of the former Attorney of Salerno, but let's forget it. Undersecretary Girlanda said that delegations cannot be conferred on Deputy Minister De Luca because he is mayor. The situation continues to continue unchanged and, therefore, we ask you how this is possible. If you don't want to resign as mayor, take away his powers. Have the courage to do this. We ask ourselves who and what is the use of this farce, destined to go on for a long time. Let's not talk about what happens in Salerno. I don't want to get into the dynamics of a party, but I seem to have read in the newspapers that 12,000 people in Salerno have been registered with the Democratic Party, while in the province of Rome, which seems to me to be a little bigger, 11,000. In Salerno, the mayor, as a Salerno citizen, is Renzian, while in the past he was from Berlin. Suggest him to agree with his brain to understand what he wants to do, but above all we try to withdraw those delegations. Mr President, I would kindly ask you to schedule this motion as soon as possible, which I think is absolutely important in order to respect the goodness of this Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u77	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak because yesterday in Abruzzo, in the Municipality of Roccaraso and in the hamlet of Pietransieri, the 70th anniversary of a terrible massacre was celebrated, operated 70 years ago at the hands of the German occupiers. The population still today, although 70 years have passed, lives a condition of memory, memory and pain because that massacre, in such a small place, as is the fraction of Pietransieri, produced a very high number of deaths. German soldiers killed 128 people. Who knows Abruzzo, Roccaraso, Pietransieri and the wonderful mountains of these places, easily realize how heavy and massive the loss of so many people could have been. In the autumn of 1943 the war arrived in that territory, where the Germans had fought hard against the advanced ally. Why were those 128 people killed? For the same reasons that other massacres, in other parts of Italy were severely perpetrated against the civilian population. It was a massacre committed by the Nazis during the period of occupation of Italy, which took place on 21 November in Pietransieri, in the province of L'Aquila, in a beautiful forest, today a destination for tourists and pilgrims, who also go to visit the places of the massacre. The German soldiers killed 128 people, 60 of whom were women, without plausible reasons and reasons, but due to the suspicion that the civilian population supported the partisans. The area in which the massacre took place was one of the cornerstones of the Gustav defensive line, on which the German Armed Forces stood after the Allied landing in Salerno. Hitler ordered the contingents to move forward in Italy. Albert Kesselring, Field Marshal of the German Armed Forces, in October 1943 had posted a manifesto in those places, between Rivisondoli, Pescocostanzo, Roccaraso, Roccacinquemiglia and Pietransieri, places today known because wonderful destinations of summer and winter tourism. In those days that German-language manifesto said: "All who are still in the country or in the surrounding mountains will be considered rebellious and will be treated according to the laws of war of the Germanic army." Those people were in their homes, they were taken in the course of the rakes, shot on the spot and others in the woods; it was therefore a terrible massacre. In these days the Municipality of Roccaraso, the local institutions and committees have celebrated the 70 years since the massacre. They celebrated the victims; among them there were not only 60 women, but also 34 children under the age of ten and a baby just a month old, whose bodies were long abandoned in the bush, buried by the snow. In fact, it took months and, in some cases, it was necessary to wait for the spring of 1944 to find those poor bodies. I remember this massacre today in this House to involve the President of the Senate and the senators present, but also to commit all of us to ensure that that memory is not lost and that our country, which has the cornerstones in its Constitution to react to that violence and new violence, can always manifest and reconfirm its desire for peace in the memory of those events. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fattori.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u80	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I wanted to inform the House of something that happened last night, 21 November: Giuseppina Jacona, a 79-year-old pharmacist, was brutally killed in Blufi, a small town near Palermo. An attempt at robbery ended badly, an attempt at robbery that really found a result that discourages everyone. A 79-year-old woman, surely helpless, was brutally killed for a few hundred euros. The law enforcement authorities intervened and arrested the criminals (because of this), but unfortunately the case leaves a dismay in the inhabitants of this small country who saw in this professional a point of reference. Unfortunately, the pharmacy has become an ATM of microcriminality, a place where every small character dedicated to the underworld finds an easy response to their economic needs. The phenomenon of robberies is moving more and more from banks to shopping malls, to small businesses, in particular the pharmacy. The danger index of these centres has become truly unsustainable. I want to remind you that in these centres the elderly, the disabled, those who really need support, so even more so this testifies how our society becomes fragile, attackable by phenomena that we would not like to see every day in our cities. I want to draw everyone's attention to a topic that is now on the agenda in our country, that of security. I will be presenting a question on Monday on this subject, but I really believe that the security of our citizens is one of the strong commitments that Parliament must also make. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u81	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-139.ana.u82	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 25 November, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12:17 a.m.
