ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:17 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 24 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u3	The next item is the debate on the communication from the President of the Council of Ministers. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Enrico Letta, delivered the text of the programmatic declarations to the House of Deputies, which was annexed to the shorthand report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u4	Mr President, the political distances of the 5 Star Movement from the President-in-Office of the Council, Enrico Letta, and most of its Ministers are enormous. The political vision for the revival of Italy and this newborn Government is in complete opposition to that supported by the 5 Star Movement and by much of the public opinion, which on 25 February, at the polls, rejected the austerity line of the Monti Government and the parties that supported it, the same who are now here to ask for trust. Nothing's changed! Our idea of state is that of a society where there is direct and responsible participation of citizens in the common good, where citizens are the center of political vision and not biological machines at the service of economic growth and production. Democracy is sacred and the 5 Star Movement will not allow this government to trample on the referendary choices of the Italian people, on the contrary it will ask, in the matter of institutional reforms, that together with respect for the central and legislative role of Parliament, as from the Constitution, there be equal respect for the popular will as opposed to a dangerous flight forward towards a government that focuses its power in the hands of the few. History has already shown us dangerous drifts. The 5 Star Movement calls for respect for our constitutional system through the exercise of political power by the sovereign people, that is, a form of direct democracy that passes through a decisive strengthening of the decision-making power of the citizens giving them a new and more active role. Therefore, in addition to popular law initiatives, deliberate referendum instruments are needed, and without quorum. For twenty and more years we have been witnessing the emptying of Parliament's legislative function in the name of speeding up the decision-making processes by means of decree-laws, containers in which often have found room for legislative measures not concerning the primary objective of the measure, but aimed only at protecting specific and partisan interests on the most varied issues: let us think of the lobbying of incinerators, cement and gambling, just to give some examples. These are the effects of the strong governments, of the strong President, so much declaimed by the "saggi" of Napolitano. We have heard that Italy is in crisis and the recipe is, among others, that of constitutional reforms. At every exit we hear that we have the most beautiful Constitution in the world, and then we look forward to changing it! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why? Because the obstacle seems to be the perfect bicameralism, which exists in various European and world systems. But what's the real problem? That perfect bicameralism seems an obstacle for a single political force to govern. So, when only a political force rules, it's not just about... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u5	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u6	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, today we wish the new Premier every success. We will vote for confidence, but only as a formal act, because basically the confidence the President of the Council has already obtained it: he has obtained it from the financial markets; he has obtained it from the percentage of variation of the indices at the close of the Milan Stock Exchange yesterday and, before that, throughout Europe; he has obtained it, for what it can be worth (on the subject I think it is useful to make an investigation commission), from the spread, which seems to have fallen from the roller coaster and which has reached levels that have not been seen for a long time. But trust also received it, so, I would say, extraordinarily simple and also extraordinarily effective, from a post I read on Facebook, echoing the words with which Martina Giangrande thanked you and the Government, placing trust in the institutions. In those words, on the day following an important act, at an important moment for the democracy of the country, which awaited a moment of peace and which was marred by the bloodshed that stretched to the gates of the Palaces of the institutions, I believe it is written the hope that puts the entire country in this Government and in the recovered sense of ethics of the responsibility that Parliament reserves to the Government itself at the time when it grants it confidence. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on these grounds, I would add personal ones. I must say that I am satisfied, because of the eight points that my party had indicated, you made the en plein: you mentioned them, albeit prudently and in detail, all of them. And that satisfies me. But I also add the personal vote of conviction towards a person to whom I must esteem and to whom I am united a deep sense of elective affinity from the point of view of political sensitivity and value. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have made a comprehensive, timely and broad report. That's all there is to it. Allow me to say that your speech to the Chambers, if it were a bill, would have one flaw: that of not having financial cover. Basically, our excellent President of the Budget Commission would reject the law for violating Article 81 of the Constitution. Now, it will only be a case that Minister Saccomanni is not here today, but I believe that the authority of the Minister chosen to hold the economic fortunes of the country is also a guarantee for you, as well as for us. Indeed, in the eighteen months you have given Parliament, we will undoubtedly have to translate into concrete the indications you have made and on which there is - I would say - satisfactory convergence. I would like to highlight two or three small points. The first concerns young people. When he addressed Martina Giangrande, thanking the Forces of Order and the Arm of the Carabinieri, he referred to the young people. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have a disease in our country: the merit is not recognized. He's not recognized... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Mr President, I would ask you to be able to attach the remaining part of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u7	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Unfortunately, Senator, time has run out and it is not possible to give more because we have very tight times, I'm sorry. Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the presentation by the President-in-Office of the Council of two primary objectives for successful growth: universal work and welfare. It is in relation to these objectives that priorities and instruments must be identified, and it is in this careful work that the credibility of a political class capable of working well for its own nationals can be reconstructed. The recovery of employment is first and foremost the economic one, which must be the main objective and which, as President Letta has pointed out, requires a complex set of interventions. First of all, the definition of industrial policies, which have been absent in our country for too many years, is urgent. In line with the project "Industria 2015" of the then Minister Bersani, it is necessary to identify the strategic sectors for the growth of the country and on them to invest continuously. This can create confidence in companies operating in those sectors and free them from the uncertainty that acts as a brake on investment. Among the strategic sectors must surely include tourism and cultural heritage, which are very important for the South of the country. These sectors are suitable for employing workers with a high level of education and therefore particularly suitable for activating that youth employment so worryingly low in our country. Avoiding excessive lengthening of time before the entry of young people into the labour market, which has very serious consequences for both career prospects and life plans, must be the first objective of labour policies. This may also require exceptional tools, but they must never lead to the deregulation that we have known and which degrades work and the worker. The DEF tells us that one of the most important factors in determining the projected decrease in GDP by 1.3% in 2013 is the fall in domestic demand. This information must guide us in the choice of intervention tools. With regard, in particular, to taxation, it is clear that the many proposals for tax reductions that we are talking about cannot all be implemented immediately. It will then be necessary to give priority to those who activate a question that would otherwise not be able to express itself, as the International Monetary Fund suggests from the beginning of the crisis. It will be preferable to reduce taxation on medium-low labour income, prevent the increase in VAT, thus releasing demand for consumption for national goods and services, and to encourage measures of the type credit to investments, especially in areas affected by the earthquake. Similarly, tax relief (i.e. the IMU type on the first house) should be studied by reassigning revenue to those with the highest income, the greater the increase of which would be more difficult to translate into lower consumption, and without creating problems of financing to the municipalities. The aim, certainly important, of reducing the tax burden will have to be achieved with a renewed and continuous fight against tax evasion, a task that is facilitated by the increasing international cooperation in the fight against tax havens. Investing in welfare and, in particular, in care services for children and elderly not self-sufficient is also a prerequisite, not only for growth, but also for happy growth. Investing in care services responds, in fact, to the needs of the families and, at the same time, favours women's employment, both because it allows the reconciliation of labour market and domestic work, and because it creates jobs in a sector of labour-intensive especially women, which is particularly true in the South, where unemployment in women's activities is high. The latest report on the financial stability of the Bank of Italy tells us how important it is to guarantee companies, not only the quantity, but also the quality of the credit, also in order to preserve the stability of the banking system, without the use of public aid. It is not enough, then, the very important monetary instruments such as the guarantee fund and the capitalization of the trusts, but it is also necessary that the trusts become able to select the companies to give guarantees and monitor them. It is necessary to promote and extend the chain rating in order to allow small sub-suppliers to enjoy the credit ratings of upstream companies. Two further actions can help Italian small and medium-sized enterprises: to make the network efficient... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u9	On behalf of me and of the Assembly, I address a greeting to the students of the State Secondary School of First Degree (Dante Alighieri) in Nicosia, in the province of Enna, who are following our work. We thank them for their presence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u11	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to and read the programme of the first, and I hope it will be a lasting one, Government of the 17th Parliament. I take the floor to speak loudly on the political reflection that will enable me to express my personal support for the government action envisaged in the political programme. If all the economic and institutional reforms indicated in the Government's programme are implemented, I am sure that our country would certainly be on the right path to regain the spirit of growth. Clearly, economic growth and development are not the result of a mathematical equation and economic policy choices can only partially predict growth and development. As Robert Solow says, perhaps the most illustrious scholar of these themes, "of growth we know the ingredients, but not the exact recipe". It is evident that in Italy today many ingredients are missing to return to growth, and these "reform-ingrediente" are a necessary condition, even if perhaps not sufficient, for the wind of growth to return. To return to growth you need to invest. This does not necessarily mean finding the financial resources to build bridges, asphalt highways or digital highways. It means, above all, investing in reforms that change the functioning of our economy. Italy is a country in plaster, also and above all because it is an old country, in a reformer spirit even more than in demography. We need to invest in reforms at zero cost. There are many and very important reforms that can be done without raising public debt by a single euro. These reforms only call for political capital to be invested in building the consensus needed to complete them, because any intervention that alters a consolidated status quo inevitably displeases someone. A political class that's up to it can do it. Obstacles can be removed. The first zero-cost reform I propose is to promote and improve access to credit for households and small and medium-sized enterprises. There is an urgent and necessary reform involving a clear separation between commercial banks and business banks. The reform will allow commercial banks to engage exclusively in lending to businesses and households, leaving banking trading activities to other financial intermediaries. The second reform proposal aims to provide ideas for reflection and analysis of the apparent crisis of representative democracy, driven by the fanciful benefits that institutions and the spirit of direct democracy would offer. As already indicated in the recent report by the wise men, who have intervened with proposals for reforms of the referendum institute and proposals for popular laws, other and innovative corrective measures are needed that favour grafts of direct democracy. The proposal, which also my personal political experience suggests to me, is not already the reform of Article 67 of the Constitution, but the forecast in the next and reformed constitutional framework of the incorporation of the recall institution. While it is true that the government's programme includes changes to the Constitution and the electoral law, perhaps by setting up the single colleges, under these conditions it will be politically important to the institute of the recall, already foreseen for a century in the United States. With a large collection of signatures among voters, the Recall Institute allows early withdrawal of the immersive elected, as is the case in California, but also in 18 other EU states, as well as in Canada, Japan, Switzerland and various Latin American countries. After a period following the election of a Member of Parliament, the retell plans to "call" him if he has not acted correctly. According to Professor Michele Ainis, the recall function is to use a tool of direct democracy to make representative democracy more authoritative. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is important to make some thoughts, but since I cannot express them and bring them all to your attention completely because of the limited time available, I would ask the President of the Senate to be able to attach the full text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the PdL and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u12	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u14	Mr President, Mr Letta, we have examined your Government's policy paper on education, universities, research and culture. Well, the idea of a school to which the Government should think is basically a synthesis that connects the values of the state school, as thought by the constituent Fathers, and the need to realize those technological changes that would create the foundations of a modern school, deeply innovative and renewed, with the awareness of having to sink its roots in the social state. In recent years we have seen a progressive loss of the pedagogical value of public school, as well as its organizational and educational destructure. The school no longer conveys the idea of State, of equality, of unity, of cohesion, of love for knowledge and of necessary respect for the institutions, as an extraordinary instrument of social and cultural wealth. The drastic reduction of the funds paid by the State to the public school, the resources necessary to guarantee it the dignity it deserves, the degradation of the professionalism of its operators, last with the laws n. 133 of 2008, n. 169 of 2008 and n. 240 of 2010, has further contributed to denying authority and decorum to the institution that, in the idea of the constituent Fathers, was to be a weapon of social equality, vehicle of ideas and development of people. Public school today cries out its own malaise, but it is not caught and is not understood. The instruments to be promoted in order to start to intervene decisively on the problems affecting the State school are: certain to guarantee public resources only to it and not also to private school, this in compliance with the Constitutional Charter; to ensure a serious and correct preparation of teachers at all levels of education; to implement an evaluation system based on shared criteria, whose aim is not punitive, but on the contrary to stimulate to initiate those necessary corrective manoeuvres where there are problems, and thus raise the general level of public education. Of all this we can only find a few traces in the document you have presented, Mr President. With regard to the system of university and research, we believe that it has a fundamental role in the development of the country, and we suggest that priority be given to it even during the economic recession. The high level of training of citizens is the first requirement to train the high level of professionalism needed both in the public and private sectors; it also facilitates the circulation of constructive ideas in society and broadens the possibilities for citizens to enter the labour market. The interventions in this field must be aimed at overcoming the criticalities and improving the performance, competitiveness and the national and international prestige of the system. The guiding principles of intervention are not only that of increasing resources to bring the level of funding back to the European average at last, but also, and above all, the valorisation of the deserving at all levels. Closely related to this is the concept of evaluation of the system, both of individual researchers and structures: a truly independent evaluation, based on shared criteria, not an end in itself, but increasingly linked to the distribution of resources and taking into account international best practices. We do not know if your government is clear about the importance that universities and research have on the future of the country, given the few generic lines dedicated to them in the document presented. We hope that your government will change direction... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u15	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u16	Dear President, dear Minister, colleagues, every government - says Shimon Peres - has a silent member called reality. And it's true, terribly true. It is a bitter reality, for what Italians have lived for a long time and up to now, which asks for responsibilities and interventions in part immediate, partly marked by a programming that there is an extreme need, but all clarification, effective, coherent and understandable. It was another, honestly, political reality that we wanted to live; but a perverse electoral law forced us to cohabit. The first is impossible - we know that - because it has proved deaf and waterproof that political force from which for fifty days we have waited for its assent. Mistakes and mistrust, in a radical change, have brought us here. Now reality is in front of us. You do not reject reality, you do not abdicate; you accept, you change, you try to change in a serious way a reality that we do not like, along with those who are there, engaging without ever betraying our people, who have the right to live in serenity, trusting in the future for themselves and for their children, looking with confidence to politics only if this will be able to work for goals, reaching them one after the other with a serious and honest job. We will not be forgiven otherwise; nor will we be able to forgive other errors, other negligences, other discharges, for example on the Communes. Let me say this: if you do not find the money to compensate and supplement the IMU, we will say no to other attempts to foment illusions to the detriment of the truth and the right. The compass cannot be communication, but coherent. The change must not only be expected, but rather perceived and real. A new era begins, with new faces and strong will. On this I, we all want to give our assent and our trust... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u17	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, President Letta, you have presented a courageous and atypical programme, not written - and it is one of the first - with pen and ink. Yesterday you said you don't need "presentism." I suggest you use "strabism," as a common friend says, Professor De Rita: an eye for today and an eye for tomorrow. It will serve even more politics, without being ashamed of it: the ingredient to which we have been educated. I agree that this should be a constituent legislature; I agree with the attention given by you and your ministers to a generation that has a future in time, thinking of protection for atypical people and the issue of opportunities, not just the question of defending consolidated rights. She starts her own tour in Europe today. I would suggest - and this is the only advice I can give you and your Government - that in the coming weeks we present a table of common rights, a proposal that Italy makes to regulate the financial markets and to ensure that all fundamental freedoms are enjoyed by all citizens of the Member States of the Union. The birth of your Government, Mr President, has not passed immune to the deployment of which we are part. They wrote that the Congress of the Democratic Party was held. There's truth. But, to see, in a handful of days it has gone on stage much more: the story of the last twenty years has gone on stage, not only of a party, because the ancient dilemma has reappeared between the approach to the shore of reformism and European socialism and the adventurous journey of a multicultural caravan. The Italian left, along the reformism-radical line, has experienced deep fractures over time, from the first to the recent epilogue of the second Prodi Government: majority in pieces, apparently with external aid, and early elections. It is desirable that the confrontation that will open involves all the forces of Italian reformism, while putting them to the test of this Government, of a Government of responsibility. We would have liked to give you our direct contribution, because we have made this solution, without shame and with little company, a few weeks ago. With Mr Bersani - as you know - we shared the whole parable: we did the right thing. Loyalty is a value and values require constancy of behavior and discipline. Finally, this is desirable because the political forces that support it are not just the three largest in Parliament. For these reasons, we will not fail you to agree. I have read a bizarre thesis these days that the vote of confidence is a vow of conscience. The vote of confidence - on the other hand - is a full political vote: it is the assumption of public responsibility in front of the nation. That's it and that's it. Soon, yes, we will deal with thorny themes, where consciousness will be freer. Imagine, Mr President, how many knots to be melted around the world of civil rights, if everywhere now - right and left, France and England - take care of them. Among its ministers there are the sensibilities to transform the rigid boundaries of the past, from the valorization of the different forms of family to the biological will... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, I would ask you to be able to attach the remainder of the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u19	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u20	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u21	Mr President, it is very important that the work is put at the centre of the new Government's programme, not only because of the commitment of the President of the Council to resolve emergencies, but also and above all because of the priority given to the work of young people as a resource for the growth of our country. In order to truly address the tragedy of youth unemployment, as President Letta calls it, we must commit ourselves - the Government and Parliament - to three levels. Firstly, we need to raise our eyes to the world: it is unacceptable, in the third millennium, a tragedy such as that of Bangladesh, where 400 people died who worked in unacceptable conditions, with low wages and without security. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] The wild relocations, the competitiveness without rules and without rights also concern us: Italy, Europe and the future of our children. Secondly, we need to act with system policies. There is a need for a change of attitude, which is reflected in your programme of government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. There is no need to make pieces of politics: we need to work together. The reduction of labour taxes is good, but at the same time we need to push for the acceleration of investment in innovation, research, areas such as the waste cycle, the digital agenda and services to the person. This latter development would really allow us to address the great issue of reconciliation between work and family. At the same time, policies are needed to accompany the work and guide the courses of study of children. Vocational training systems must also be revitalised, which are currently too sterile because they are not capable of generating real job profiles. Finally, there is one aspect that you highlight very well in your programme: there are no longer any bags of privilege in public administration. There is a need for confidence to be passed on especially to those who want to do business. This argument allows me to move to the last level of commitment, which is that of a great battle of civilization and moralization of public life: equal opportunities for access. A figure you pointed out is very indicative: only 10% of young Italians with their ungraduated father succeed in graduating. I add some data to make the frontier of our commitment even clearer: 24% of our young people do not study and do not work, and unemployment among young women in the South is 56%. If the heart of our policies is the achievement of equal access opportunities, then the merit of action is the consequence: from filling the broadband gap in the Mezzogiorno, to a high-quality public school, to the right to study and lifelong training, to an efficient service system, to a real battle against undeclared work. We need targeted interventions and systems to grow, but we need to look ahead and shift the centre of gravity of our policies on the Mezzogiorno and the Mediterranean, because from there we can be, like Italy, protagonists of new geopolitical balances in Europe and in the world and give hope to our young people. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u22	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u23	Mr President, Ministers and colleagues, the environment and energy are the biggest challenges facing Italy in the near future: with a national energy strategy, such as the current one, inadequate and still entirely focused on the fossil fuel, despite the proclamations, Italy appears unprepared for the future. The young minister Orlando, among the many experiences gained, does not seem to have any significant in the environmental field. We wonder if you have a driver's license to drive such a Dicastery. For the time being, we are encouraged by your experience in the Anti-Mafia Commission, so that you can stand firm in the fight against environmental lawlessness and eco-challenges, so that environmental crimes are included in the penal code and for the cancellation of the prescriptions for all environmental crimes, as many people have been asking for from time to time. For the 5 Star Movement, the energy future lies in structured and forward-looking national plans that aim decisively at the democratization of energy, against monopoly concentrations, focused on saving, which is also saving resources and materials, on energy efficiency and renewable sources, the real ones, following the European vision of smart grids and the most virtuous experiences of energy democracy present in Germany, a country that has been able to plan the exit from nuclear power and the abandonment of polluting fossil sources. The costs of environmental and health errors inherent in the SEN will fall heavily on tomorrow's budgets, if we do not see it again. Every waste of resources, every lack of opportunity to save has an inevitable high cost on budgets. We can't afford it. Our environmental vision, which is strongly linked to rational use without waste of economic and environmental resources, seems far from yours, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. We remember a Enrico Letta, like exponents of the PdL, PD and UDC, exalters of the construction of useless, expensive and harmful incinerators. Like Berlusconi and Bersani. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But the future goes towards zero waste: a system that follows the European lines of waste reduction with separate door-to-door collection, with the realization of alternative recycling and cold treatment systems, with the factory of materials to recycle practically everything through modern techniques of destruction and composting. A system based on the punctual pricing of waste to enhance the concept that the more recycles the less it pays, an idea of recycling that does not include the absurd TARES by square meter. A zero waste system already implemented in several realities that we have been proposing for years and that, with the popular drive of civic committees and with the support... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u24	She is registered to speak Senator Giannini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u25	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to take the floor during the debate on trust in this Government, new in substance and innovative in its form and method. A government of national pacification that - I can say - seems more the start, the beginning of a new political season than the conclusion of a very stingy and very complicated era for Italy and for Europe, and that starts again with the courage of the innovators from some key words that I would like to recall in this brief intervention: rigor, responsibility, development and trust. Ancient words, even in the vocabulary of politics, but - let's say? - perhaps a little forgotten in the editorial success of current affairs and to which we would like to give back all the descriptive and operational power that your report has evoked, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thanks to the joint work that begins in this House today. This joint work is based - as you also said - on a solid basis of fiscal consolidation and discipline that the Monti Government has known, with very painful and effective measures, to produce, also starting a reformist path that cannot and must not be neglected. In each of these words, Civic Choice for Italy is fully recognized, because they clearly express the principles with which to deal in a long-term political project (finally, we hope) the most urgent problems of the present, but also the values on which to build the future and the tools with which to realize it, that is, a model of Country. There is a great deal of future in your report, and that is very welcome. Evil is known. I do not list them exhaustively, but we know them: unemployment, inactivity, especially youth and women, disintegration and growing social imbalance, lack of international competitiveness, bureaucratic asphyxiation, fiscal pressure, and we could continue. In short, everything that continues to hinder the Italian path towards the new Europe and that also in our opinion represents the irreplaceable political horizon in which to insert the political, social and cultural action of our country. But on the practicality and speed of the means and remedies we ask the Government for a precise commitment and a hierarchy of priorities of intervention. I would like to mention just a few strategic examples: firstly, work and skilled employment, with particular reference to the necessary introduction of flexibility and incentive criteria in the recruitment of young people and women. The delay on the Lisbon Agenda for Women's Employment is now truly unacceptable. Secondly, innovation, which is intended above all as a method and means of linking the world of research with the world of enterprise and industrial production, is applied in those strategic areas in which we must catch up. The digital agenda in this area is a priority for Civic Choice. Still, social cohesion: the uneasiness of the weak sections of society seems to have found partial answers in the illustrated programme. Civic Choice calls for more explicit measures aimed at support for families and care of the person - elderly and disabled - also in the form of specific delegations. Integration: in our schools the percentage of foreign children reaches and sometimes exceeds 10%. They are children of escapes, sometimes out of desperation, from countries really far away, physically and also culturally, who ask for education today for a job qualified tomorrow, to become Italian citizens, and this is a really important point. Education and research. You spoke of freeing up the best energies in the country: I think it is crucial to finally include the training chain, from school to university to vocational training, in the heart of the political agenda of this Government. Enhancing indigenous talents and attracting foreign talents is no longer a virtue: it must be a very precise political objective in the Europe of knowledge. 3 percent of foreign students in our universities today are late, but it's better than yesterday. But it will be insufficient at once, tomorrow. The Europe of rigour has taken a very long time to understand the innovative scope of the concept of public investment for growth: a concept that, even on an Italian initiative, was precisely introduced at the European Council on 28 and 29 June 2012. Expenditure on education, training and research, Mr President, is an investment in human capital as a fundamental instrument for the development of the individual and for the improvement and evolution of society: what we need in Italy and Europe. To accept this principle as one of the criteria for drawing up the budget means to consider the quality of expenditure for each Member State and to be able to deduct it from the calculation of the deficit and debt. Technically, it means an epochal change; culturally, a revolution; politically, the collapse of an alibi. If we clear the alibi field and restore the long-term breath to politics, we can also give it back its primary function: to choose and decide for the common good in the representation of citizens and the nation. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u26	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u27	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, on Sunday morning millions of Italians were in front of television to witness your oath. There was expectation and solemnity. But your emotions were interrupted when, at the same time, as you swore, violence and chaos appeared. That day has symbolically developed a paradox, which is what continues today: that is, the need to emerge, with a great sense of responsibility, from the chaos that appeared that morning in all its violence. Nietzsche says: "We must have chaos within ourselves to create a dancing star." I don't know if what we're about to do is gonna be a dancing star, I hope from the bottom of it. My trust isn't light-hearted. It is a trust designed and responsible, like that of many other Members of Parliament. And I have an even stronger responsibility to my community, the community of Abruzzo and L'Aquila, wounded by the earthquake. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have been to the Eagle and helped us as a Member of Parliament. There is a mission to be carried out that concerns not only Abruzzo and my wounded land, but also Emilia-Romagna and all the other communities wounded by a tragic natural disaster: there we must invest resources. The funds in Abruzzo have ended. There's nothing left. The largest construction site in Europe, which could give work to tens and tens, hundreds of companies, craftsmen and construction workers, is stopping. We need resources. It takes a billion a year; the proposal for a system with the Deposit and Loan Fund for a decade, the system, that is, adopted in Emilia-Romagna, can be the system that this Government can and must adopt quickly. But that is not the only issue. I wouldn't speak today if I didn't care about the need to forcefully include the general theme of prevention, so that no community can live what I and so many other citizens have experienced: anti-seismic prevention in a fragile territory, as is our Italy, and risk prevention, so that there are no more schools and public buildings under the risk of collapse. A plan in short: a plan of micro-interventions, easing the stability pact and establishing special resources for Italy to be safer. This is a sign that would give so much confidence to our people. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u29	Mr President, I have the honour to represent in this prestigious Assembly a mountain community that has been living in the highest areas of Europe for millennia. A people who over the centuries has developed an Alpine civilization characterized by tenacity, sobriety, solidarity and long periods of self-government. The constituent Fathers then recognized with solid motivations the Valle d'Aosta a particular position in the new Republic, sanctioned by the Statute of autonomy embedded in the Constitutional Charter. After almost seventy years, thanks to autonomy, we can continue to live the mountain not without difficulty, but with dignity. We are therefore not privileged; we have developed a virtuous model that has transformed the mountain into livable and welcoming, respecting the environment and nature. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in associating myself with the positive judgements on the birth of this Government and its programme, I would ask you for a sincere commitment to protect our special autonomy. I would like to remind you briefly of some important points; the inclusion of the principle of the agreement between the State and the Regions for changes to the Statute; the establishment, finally, for the Aosta Valley of a college for the election of the European Parliamentarian; the relaxation of the Stability Pact and the long-standing problem of rail transport. Our wish is therefore that this Government, taking on the great issues such as work, young people, fiscal pressure, welfare and the necessary reform of the health system, considers special autonomy as a wealth. A modern state must protect its cultural and linguistic minorities. A modern state is the set of cultures and populations that must have in unity the possibility of living, expressing themselves and developing. It is the model of state organization that, since 1945, the Union Valdôtaine has promoted as federalism. I would like to conclude with a sentence from President Napolitano when he came to Valle d'Aosta: Our nation is made up of so many differences and paths like this, but woe to oppose one part of the country to another; woe to contrast an idea of autonomy to the need for unity of Italy. With this, of course, we welcome this Government and its programme, hoping for a sense of responsibility on the part of all. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u30	Senator Casaletto is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the planning of the infrastructure system must aim to shift attention from large to small works linked to the restructuring and maintenance of the existing one, to the restoration of the hydraulic sections of the rivers and the torrents, to the interventions connected to the landslide risk incumbent on the inhabited centers, to the seismic adaptation of the school buildings and, in general, to those used as garrisons of civil protection in case of crisis, to the redevelopment and consolidation of our exterminated historical and artistic heritage. The logic of the great works contrasts with the scarcity of resources. In the current phase of contraction it is necessary to invest in small works with high working intensity, which are accessible to that fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises that are the real backbone of the management of the territory at municipal level. Why finance the Turin-Lion railway tunnel when local public transport is exhausted? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] What is most useful for most citizens? The TAV or the functional conversion of the secondary railway lines? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We must redistribute the EUR 916 million already available to works related to the reduction of hydrogeological risk and the reduction of the seismic risk associated with civil protection facilities in the event of natural disasters. Is the Civitavecchia-Cecina motorway more strategic or are the archaeological excavations of Pompeii? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Always talking about development without waste, which is our lighthouse to relaunch the country, the strange majority still give us cement. We read stunned statements by Enrico Letta who, a little more than twenty days ago, on his site, declares that he wants to start again from the investments of the stadiums in order to revive the economy. Evidently we are at the fall of the Roman Empire and we continue to invest in panem and circenses and cement. It seems to be in the 80s by Minister De Michelis, and in the magical nights of Italy 90. The Italian economy does not need new cement, it does not need new stadiums. The construction sector needs to be restarted from renovations, the energy efficiency of buildings and the conversion of buildings. Italy cannot bear a single gram of extra cement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Agriculture is asking for it; the environment is asking for it; a healthy economy, which puts legality at the centre, since most of the cementifications, even with the construction of useless and large stadiums, have in recent years been the road to organised crime to launder money. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Italy needs industrial conversion, moving production from low-knowledge consumer goods to high-tech industrial innovation. We need a long-term vision, not linked to the shortsightedness of the election... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u32	He is registered to speak Senator Corsini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u33	Mr President, time is tyrant. I shall start with a political premise. A historic electoral consultation at the time of the so-called First Republic had met two winners. Today we are in the presence of a result without winners and without winners. Certainly we must record the undoubted success of the 5 Star Movement. Grillo's party, however, self-excludes itself, in a sort of political nihilism that to some extent is connected to its party nature takes everyone. How do I judge this government? A government of truce; a government of armistice. After all, peace is concluded between adversaries. Among them the clash is not as bloody as between blood relatives. So, how do we translate a constraint, a state of emergency and exception that, as far as I'm concerned, doesn't erase neither memory, nor history, nor mutual identity? How can this condition be translated into an opportunity and, as President Letta rightly said, into a responsible service to the country? In my opinion, a test case, precisely because it is ground that demands the widest convergences, is that of institutional and constitutional reforms, without prejudice to the incomparableness of the ethical-political foundations, of the principles at the origin of our Constitution and which are defined in its first part. First of all, I believe that it is a matter of restoring dignity and ambition to politics, of relegitizing the Republic of institutions and citizens after we have known the intrusive Republic of parties, of putting parties back in their place, of returning their functions of representation. And then I think that the agenda that President Letta described is largely acceptable. First of all, the revision from this point of view of Article 49 of the Constitution, that is to say, to implement those suggestions that Constantino Mortati and Aldo Moro manifested during the debate at the Constitution: parties with legal personality, their financing on the basis of free and voluntary contributions of citizens encouraged through the mechanism of tax credit, the constraint of the act of constitution and a statute, rules of transparency, the definition of the modalities of participation of members, democratic procedures in the selection of leadership and management groups. If we do not return the parties to their nature as defined in the article of the Constitution, we will not overcome the obstacle of this crisis. Again: the drastic reduction in the number of parliamentarians, however accompanied by the promotion upstream of processes of qualification of the function of representation, the return to Parliament of its constitutional role after the epoch of the decree of urgency that reduced it to an organ of acclamation for majorities and as a witness to the oppositions, the fulfilment of the federalist architecture of the new state. As a former mayor, I am quite reluctant to accept the formula of the Senate of the Regions within a functional diversification of our Assemblies, in view of an accomplished overcoming of bicameralism... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bonfrisco]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u34	Your time is up, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u35	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u36	Dear President, the quality of your programmatic speech and the composition of the Government was rewarded yesterday by the abstention of the League in the Chamber of Deputies. I think it is important that a party representing three Presidents of Italian Regions should show, to the Government, a watchful attention such as the one that is highlighted with abstention. The economy is the biggest problem in our country and it is fundamental to the success of the Government in the economy that Europe thinks of growth. Europeanism is an extraordinary objective on an ideological and practical level, but for it to be achieved it is essential that Europe's working methods change. Europe must emerge from the ford it is currently in, otherwise it will be difficult for its citizens to perceive it as a real reality and it will also be difficult for it to bring the benefits it can bring to our continent, which has very serious problems in terms of growth. We need to deal not only with the United States of America, but with a large part of Asia and South America; in short, there is work to be done. Pending global reforms, it is essential that the state gets used to deciding quickly: the central state, the regions and the municipalities must learn to say yes and no quickly. Citizens and investors, even international, get angry - and investors run away from our country - for the fact that we do not give answers; it is necessary to know whether to say yes or no to those who ask something. Unfortunately we have seen many announcements (the one-stop shop and so on) that have not materialized. Mr President, it is essential that we act in this direction. We've been here in the Senate since March 15th, and we haven't had many sessions. I have had the opportunity to be present at all times, and frankly I have not seen either stocked or frozen: I have seen many unanimous votes and some votes with different positions, always correct and motivated. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We have been stuck as a country since December: the government crisis, the elections, two months of inactivity on our part. I think it will be essential for the Government to make decree-laws and that we should organize ourselves to make better use of them: sixty days are largely sufficient if concrete and serious work is done, if the measures are immediately scheduled as soon as they arrive, if the Commissions work seriously, if the Ministers come to explain what the reasons for the measures are. I open and close a parenthesis: Parliament is pleased if Ministers do not come because they have other institutional commitments, it is not happy if Ministers do not come to the House or the Senate to participate in TV debates. [[Applause from the PdL and M5S groups.]] I think that sixty days are enough to work, if you work concretely; of course, if there are disagreements in the majority you have to argue until they resolve. Hiding problems under the table to cover everything with confidence is a great sign of distrust. Trust dies, especially if it is an artefact. Good job. [[Applause from the PdL and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u38	Dear President of the Council, Giannelli designed it in a cartoon in which it looks like De Gasperi, on the cross in the Christian Democrat shield. You have sobered up the very serious state of our country. By consolidation alone, Italy dies. Without growth and cohesion, Italy is lost. It is no longer possible to ask for sacrifices always and only to the "known usuals." These are phrases from your speech that I can only agree with. Nor do you conceal the degeneration of political and democratic life. I read:'system imploded in its too many degenerations','self-critical','recovering decency'. It is not the language that colleagues of the 5 Star Movement use, but the diagnosis is similar. Again - and it is important to me - you promise a journey to the United States of Europe and ask for the walls to fall between North and South of the continent, those walls raised by politicians and bankers that create recession and increase public debt. Nothing will be possible in Italy and certainly you cannot relaunch the work without breaking down those walls. But with what authority, Mr President, will you ask Europe to change its policy? The number one, the 453 votes in the House? It's not enough. Politicians and bankers read, they know well that Italy is the country where corruption is most rampant and that in its Government and in the majority there are men who have not wanted effective laws against corruption and concussion, fake budget, autocycling, vote of exchange. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] It would have been nice, President Letta, if you had said: In the first 100 days I will ask Parliament to turn the draft submitted by Senator Grasso into law on the first day of the legislature. Unfortunately, he didn't. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] , as he did not promise a law, immediately, on conflict of interest. Your government is born fragile because the Goliath you speak of is not outside the Palace: it sits in this House, supports your Government, is its shareholder of reference [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] You, Mr President, have given yourself 18 months to check whether or not the cohabitation between David and Goliath is contrary to nature. I'll give it to you, although I believe that the understanding between two opposing parties that have... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u39	Unfortunately, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u40	Senator Mauro Giovanni is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u41	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I have read with great greed the speech by President Letta to the House and I have sought with great desire the references to our Mezzogiorno of Italy, to the appropriate policies for relaunching an economy which is unfortunately even more asphyxiating than that of the rest of the country. I see you're talking about tearing down the walls between the North and the South of the continent of Europe. We absolutely agree and for this we fight; as the Great South we wanted to develop this growth also as a sense of belonging that is also a sense of ransom. The people of Southern Italy feel that they have in themselves the capacity and the strength to re-launch themselves, but the State must do its part, and not a part recited, as we have seen it recited in the past. We do not adhere to those ideas that the development of the Mezzogiorno is based on the funds, on the financing which must now be made available. The development must instead arise from the awareness of the territories, from their effervescence, from the ability of a Government to know how to give certain rules and, above all, from the overcoming of an oxidized bureaucracy that manages to kill any propensity to growth. President, we expect a lot from your Executive in terms of growth and redemption capacity, precisely because of its intrinsic political strength, because a so-called government of broad understanding or of pacification always has a low intensity of party politics and can therefore have a very strong port of politics based on man, on his needs, on the remarkable importance of what the country daily lives. We will give you confidence, but not on the basis of what we have read or have not found in your speech, but because the extent of the political structure of your Government gives us real hope that the problems of the Mezzogiorno, of our South, will be tackled with great concreteness. We will offer to the attention of your Government, in a great synergy, which we believe wants to draw, between Parliament and Government, the most direct proposals. We would like regional objective laws to be made. The objective law has been important for the State, but even more so for the individual regions, since each is different from the other, although it is associated with certain problems, such as the Mezzogiorno or the North of Italy. We will ask for certain rules for public-private partnership, the only one able to attract foreign investment in our territory. We will ask you to recognize what has always been recognized in history, that is, the centrality of Italy in the Mediterranean. We want to be protagonists in the life of the Mediterranean. Italy has Sicily, the largest logistics platform in the globe. You think of the trade that is now taking place between South-East Asia and Europe as a whole and that crosses our Mediterranean. We cannot wait beyond concrete development policies. It's okay when you talk about tourism or the effervescence or intelligence of our young people: let's not let them remain titles, let's give them content, let's give projects. I assure you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I conclude, that the citizens and young people of the South will be able to follow these projects. Unfortunately, in the parliamentary debate, the subject has been poorly dealt with, but this is the centre, the heart of Italy's government. If you will be able to be, with your very high-ranking Executive, the President who deals concretely with the problems of the Mezzogiorno, you will be a great President of the Italian Council. [[Applause from the LAG and PdL groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u43	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, in expressing the support and appreciation for the difficult government action that President Letta is about to take, I would like to stress that his programmatic speech has particularly convinced me, especially because it has become nervous about the Europe-merit-culture axis. In particular, his call to social mobility confirms me in the belief that the new Government will want to work to build a more open society capable of facing new challenges. Investment in the system of public education and research and in the exploitation of cultural heritage are key elements in enabling our young people to feel fully European citizens. Culture must return to being a government priority. Allow me, then, Mr President, to address myself directly to the two ministers who will have the burden of starting the revival of our country in these strategic areas. I am referring to the Ministers, Mr Bray and Mr Carrozza. The numbers are clear and dramatic: the data increasingly distance us from the spirit and letter of Article 9 of the Constitution, which establishes the commitment of the Republic in the promotion and development of culture. In these years it has been clear to everyone that the urgency of setting in motion a real revolution in the management of our immense cultural heritage is no longer deferred. The priority to be addressed is to increase investment in culture, to progressively engage the European average, including through tax incentives. We need to free culture, by simplifying the procedures that today frustrate the spirit of initiative of institutions and private individuals. The metaphor of the disaster is known; that disaster has a date, November 6, 2010, and a name known all over the world, Pompeii: at 6 a.m. the entire Schola Armaturarum collapses. Those images went around the world. Pompeii, with its extraordinary beauty, its incredible potentialities and its equally incredible twists represents a map of litmusol of our national credibility. Among the various issues that must be resolved urgently in the first place, there is certainly a need to put back into practice, safeguarding the positive aspects of university reform, also in order to finally ensure the proper recognition of our researchers, opening up to Europe, without fearing the confrontation on the systems that seem to us today considerably later. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I too want to use the same subversive language of the truth that you have reminded us of. Most Italian schools are in bad condition: buildings often need radical renovation to ensure energy efficiency and safety. We need to start a major investment project, from banking foundations to private and, of course, public institutions. This, I am convinced, is the greatest revolution that the country is waiting for from you, indeed, I would say from all of us. We will not be able to change Italy except by starting from our history, our identity, the potential of the future that school and university must be able to express. We were told, I don't remember exactly by whom, that culture would not be eaten. Well, Mr President, we culturally do not want to eat: we really want to live, breathe and grow. [[Applause from Senator Airola]] We want to become better as women and men, but above all we want to become better as a country. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u44	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u45	Mr President, Mr Letta, speaking of economics, we shall see in fact, with our first proposals, how you intend to behave. The 5 Star Movement calls for a citizenship income for all and the abolition of IRAP for small and medium-sized enterprises by 2014, to be financed with a policy cost-cutting programme. In the decree that unlocks 40 billion euros in order to pay the enterprises that boasts credits with the public administration we have been paladins of the concept "first the enterprises and then the banks". We have now tabled proposals through amendments, such as the abolition of the IMU on the first house, the creation of a revolving fund for micro-credit to small businesses, to be financed through the abolition of party financing, the repeal of the TARES, the blocking of the records of Equitalia for those who have credits with the public administration and the impignability of salaries and pensions within the 5,000 euros. We'll see how you vote. For our part, we assure Parliament and the citizens - our first interlocutors - that while we are opposed by this Government, the single model between PD and PDL, we will not hesitate to vote and support measures that we share. We are a post-ideological movement: those that we think are good ideas, even if we are in opposition, we will vote without prejudice, recognizing also the merits. This is what is done in true democracies, and we expect reciprocity from the political forces of this majority. In our program there is the abolition of Equitalia and the IMU on the first house. In this regard we wonder how the People of Liberty intends to move, which on the subject seems to copy the ideas of the 5 Star Movement. We'll see about that. Berlusconi had promised the return of the IMU. In case it wasn't possible, he swore on live TV that he would put the money in it himself. Can the citizens already stand in line, peacefully, in front of Arcore or via del Plebiscito? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let us ask Mr Berlusconi to clarify this point. Another key issue for the development of modern democracy and economy is the conflict of interest. How do you intend to move this government? Given the political premises, we fear that the line of the Violant essay will be reconfirmed: no conflict of interest will be resolved or touched. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We will see to the test of the facts if the electoral promise of the ineligibility, according to the law of 1957, of Senator Berlusconi, already holder of the card n. 1,816 of the loggia P2 founded by Licio Gelli will be maintained. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A law that for twenty years, as several constitutionalists have pointed out, has not been applied. We call for the vote on Mr Silvio Berlusconi's incandidability in the election committee. (The Senators of the Group) [[M5S stand up and applaud]] Nothing personal about him, but there is the law, which counts more than so-called practices, in a rule of law that is defined as such. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u46	She is registered to speak Senator Mussolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u47	Mr President, at last, after a year and a half, I give with conviction the trust to a government that is not a chimera or a hybrid: finally the ice age is over; the hatreds are over, we take note, willing or unwilling. It is a government that represents a goal that fits in with the highest and most consolidated experiences of European government; it is a government that I want to call "social," which must make peace break out among citizens who claim tax equity, work and reforms. A government that must not only have brains, dear President Letta - also because, sometimes, I have struggled to find this brain in the previous Government - but that has a heart and soul that can give voice to those who still do not have it, like children, minors - foreigners and not - who live on Italian territory. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A government that can listen and react; a government that can re-establish that social pact with the sovereign people that has been loosened and frayed over the years. Thank you and I wish the Government good work. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u48	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u49	Mr President of the Senate, we welcomed yesterday's appeal by the President of the Council to the language of truth. We also say this because it seemed to us a caesura with the recent history of this country, in which a certain policy has denied for years the dramatic crisis that today disrupts the life of Italians, telling of a world that looked like a fairy tale while before our eyes the country was sinking. Well, this language of truth leads us to say that, while we imagine ours as a constructive opposition, capable of naturally taking responsibility for the gravity of the situation we are experiencing, the Left Group Ecology and Freedom will not give confidence to its Government. On the other hand, we intend to put at the heart of the work of this Parliament the commitments, not just ours but an entire coalition, which we took in the election campaign. You know, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we are not convinced that the path chosen was a must. We are still convinced that much more consideration would have deserved the voters and that it would have been right to try, until the end, to give life to a government capable of grasping that anxiety of change that was the most obvious signal that the elections had left us. We think a great opportunity has been missed to change Italy. We say this to you, to the senators present here and also to the 5 Star Movement: never, like this time, has such a thunderous signal produced such a modest result, so marked by continuity with an experience, that of the Monti Government, which is clearly rejected by the electorate and which today sees the same majority of the last year and a half as a political government. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]] Certainly we have eyes to see the signs of change that you wanted to give in the construction of your team, the attention to a certain generational change, the issue of gender, even if it is insufficient, and we recognize them that they are a positive factor; but they are very little, unfortunately, in a country torn by social inequality, in which politics lives a crisis so deep that it calls into question the cornerstones of republican democracy, never as fragile and subject to risks today. It has happened other times in our history that we had a delegitimized political class in the eyes of the country and it has happened also to the politics of having to confront with the economic and social crisis, but the arranged combination of these factors had never been so profound. The young democracy in our country today is at its most difficult test, and if politics is not able to give immediate answers to the material condition of people there is a risk that the loss of credibility will become definitive. In a framework like this, we would all have had, and in particular the parties and movements most voted on, the duty to avoid or not to favour a formula, that of broad understanding, which risks increasing in the eyes of the electorate that crisis of credibility which I referred to. It is not an ideological issue, Mr President. It is not simply the refusal to think that some political categories, particularly those of the right and left, no longer have reason for existence and are still current, different from what a certain populist vulgate thinks. The point is another: we think that to say today "meaning wide," to do what had been denied for the entire electoral campaign, i.e. a PD-PdL government, means to bury the turning point and the possibility of the turning point that was required. No one here wants to take away the importance of a noble aspect of politics: compromise and the search for synthesis are indispensable instruments of dialectic, but if they become veto powers, or omission or forgetfulness, they risk being a further element of detachment of citizens from politics. We have already seen this from your speech: we appreciated its sober character, the Europeanist cut, the centrality that you wanted to give to the greatest of questions, the work; we also appreciated the reference to the geopolitical position of Italy, projected towards other civilizations and towards dialogue. We have recognized in those sentences a political culture, certainly different from ours, but worthy of the utmost respect. We have again appreciated - and I say this from the south - the attention to a South that is slowly dying, from which the best energies are forced to emigrate, as in Italy once, but bringing with it no more cardboard suitcases but graduations and specializations. But there are too many things that concern us about your speech, and in particular they refer to what you did not say, probably because your large majority will impose those omissions and forgetfulnesss that I referred to. He did not refer to the world of finance, to the lobbies that piloted the sale of junk titles, he did not mention the unscrupulousness of those who, taking great risks to make huge profits, did not stop even in the face of the possible collapse of the system. Yet there is a general feeling that crosses our continent, that the crisis takes on first and foremost those who provoked it and that instruments, including fiscal ones, are identified to combat the social inequality that has reached an extent worthy of an oligarchic society and certainly not of a Western democracy, formed on the work of removing inequalities. That is why we would have liked you to have made more reference to the instruments that are appropriate to ensure that fiscal progressivity which is the foundation of our Constitutional Charter and which has so far been disregarded, with the great wealth taken away from any form, even one-off, of asset taxation, with the paradoxical result that when we talk about the IMU on the first house, as did the center-right in the electoral campaign, it no longer distinguishes between a poor home and a billionaire villa. Again, we are concerned about the risk of the laws on conflict of interest and corruption being sacrificed on the basis of the political agreement, which were also announced and whose approval we intend to fight in this Parliament. Here are the reasons for our dissent, the dissent of those who do not want to allow that in Italy of 2013 do not have the right to citizenship themes on the agenda in all countries, European and beyond. I am thinking of the regulation of civil unions; I am thinking of the rights of homosexuals: issues, too, that we will not accept are sacrificed in the name of a government agreement. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] , as if there were a time for social rights and another for civil rights, as if the history of the great conquests of the twentieth century had not designed the field of rights as a complex and complementary universe. Finally, we would like to add a few things that are a priority for us. We have said it several times: there is a betrayed pact on the exodus. But if the two Fornero laws that produced them are not changed structurally, the problem will not be solved, because those laws are exodus factories. Again: it is right to refinance the integration fund by way of derogation, but today we must also find resources for instruments such as solidarity contracts, which must also be refinanced and made more useful for workers, exactly as some industrial crises are unresolved (Termini Imerese, Irisbus, the crisis in the steel industry with the dramatic aspects of the ILVA in Taranto). There is still a need to use a universal measure such as that of citizenship income not simply as a subsidy for families, but as an individual instrument, capable of first and foremost removing young generations from blackmailing blackmail and poorly paid work. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] They are measures whose coverage can be sought in various ways, starting from the revision of some useless great works and the cut of the F-35 [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] , instruments of war that we think are not only useless and expensive, but also contrary to the spirit of Article 11 of the Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] One final consideration, and I'm done. The work to be created can no longer be regarded as an alternative to rights. The sterile oppositions, such as Article 18 of the Workers' Statute, have obviously not attracted any investment and have not added a single job. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] It is not the instruments to defend the workers who block and place laces and laces on the enterprises: on this it would really serve less ideology. We think we have done - I have really finished - a long way in these years and we are today a left-wing government that has gone beyond all the maximalist approaches. We are not happy to have to express a vote of no confidence, especially at a time like this, in the same days when all democratic Italy rightly, starting from its highest summits, unites around the family members of Giuseppe Giangrande and Francesco Negri [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] , but we think that the opposition that we will do must be a way of saying to the country that there can be a democratic alternative to a government that does not represent us... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u50	I greet, on behalf of myself and the Assembly, the students of the Technical Commercial Institute for Geometries (Gaetano Ferro) in Pomezia, in the province of Rome, who follow our work. [[Applause. The Senators of the M5S Group stand up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u51	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u52	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, between the two major parties of the government coalition, the reasons for opposition, sometimes with some exaggeration and some excess of hostility, have so far prevailed in their history over those to cooperate, even though - as was pointed out in yesterday's speech in the House - in the context and respect of their different identities. In this regard, it was convincing a quotation made yesterday in the House, in which it was remembered when Beniamino Andreatta, about politics and politics, identified in the territory of politics a moment of division and in politics a moment to converge. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it will allow me, with some parallelism, to conjure up Antonio Maccanico in this Chamber this morning (we will commemorate him next week), in some way his generous and unfortunate predecessor, who in 1996 tried to collect profiles and political and programmatic contents of centerright to make them stay in a government along with those of center-left. The fact that he did not succeed and that he physically failed just the day before she was appointed to form this government shows how generous and far-sighted that attempt was. All the more so since today in Europe - it was one of the salient parts of his speech yesterday - the scenario is quite different from that in which both PD and PdL, fifteen months ago, showed a sign of convergence, in the Monti Government. Today austerity in Europe is no longer a single currency; growth is on the agenda. Not only that, France and Germany are no longer pink and one thing.In order to make jokes of doubt good taste to the detriment of Berlusconi, Tremonti or both. From Hollande's France there is a declaration, if not of war, of guerrilla against Chancellor Merkel. We're talking about the Chancellor's selfish intransigence. You rightly evoked the Europe of your youth and my maturity: the Europe of Mitterrand and Kohl, one alongside the other in Verdun. But, with the right moderation, there is also another figure to bear in mind. In 1948 Germany was the beneficiary of one of the most magnanimous acts of debt remission in the world; let us make it clear without hesitation, and remember when the Western powers wanted to cancel 93% of the debt of the Nazi era in order to allow that German miracle of the post-war period, which we, at that time and in that space, to use its words, consider European history and therefore history also ours. Let me say two more things. When that attempt failed, when in all these years a useless civil guerrilla has characterized many relations between PD and PdL, I would never have thought of listening to a President-in-Office of the Council in a Parliament Chamber reminding himself and us that this is the country of Cesare Beccaria. Honour to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for having evoked this image, and honour and attention to the document of the so-called facilitators, who, in addition to subverting the judicial implications of the so-called eight points of Bersani, set moments of convergence, for example in the matter of disciplinary responsibility of the magistrates, which is now the subject of parliamentary and institutional work to deepen. I would like to turn to the last point, which I take from a good speech by Mr Corsini. The party law, the old Sturzo law of 1958 that I presented as a liberal, in controversy with Tangentopoli, in 1992 is not... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the PDL and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u53	Senator Colombo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u54	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, in the few regulatory minutes I have at my disposal, I would first of all like to congratulate President Letta on having carried out such a difficult mandate conferred on him by the President of the Republic. Yours, President Letta, is a political government, as the Head of State has called it, or of service, as you have defined it: in order to consider it such, it is necessary to go back to the reasons behind the assignment that has been conferred on you. In inaugurating the 17th legislature in the Senate on 15 March last, in an uncertain atmosphere and with unpredictable electoral results, we agreed on some findings that seem to me to be the basis of the difficult mandate entrusted to it. We noted then - and we can repeat today those observations - that the elections had come out of the substantial differences, of the differences: it had been renewed, yes, deeply the parliamentary representation, but it had also emerged significant differences. Who would have been affected if not in Parliament to compose them or make them compatible at the service of a country that is experiencing a difficult and complex season? A static contrast of the cultural, ethical and political interpretation differences of the present moment would have fatally led to institutional paralysis, with dramatic consequences on the management of the great social and economic problems that grip us. Hence the need for an honest and rigorous dialogue, which is the essence of democracy; hence the need for overcoming crystallised and infaithful oppositions and the assumption of a common responsibility in solving the problems of the country. The path you have taken is the only one possible in this difficult conjuncture to transform the legitimate contrasts into regenerative energies of the political, civil and institutional life of Italy. The permanent reference to the Republican Constitution in this House, as in the other branch of Parliament, to the parliamentary regulations that could have been the way, the only way to reach... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u55	Unfortunately, the time at your disposal is over.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u56	[[Happy comments.]] EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, this is a matter of courtesy. Come on, Mr. President! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u57	Please continue, Senator Columbus.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u58	[[Applause.]] COLOMBO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). I was told I had 10 minutes. If that's not the case, I'll stop talking. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's been assigned three minutes, but go on. COLOMBO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). This seems to me to have been the path you have taken, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which has led us to the conclusions and the programme we have just examined: a programme, in my opinion, which meets the needs of the country, especially with regard to the economic measures announced to stimulate growth and to restart Italy by overcoming the many mistrusts and creating a new climate of confidence. I would add a further reflection. The characteristic of rejuvenation in its components has been highlighted by the Government you have constituted. It would be a trivial remark if in these circumstances it did not have another profound meaning, that is to entrust the task of the composition of the differences to a generation less for a long time engaged in the hardness of the contrasts. If these solutions are valid, as I believe they are, then the political character that is attributed to your Executive is valid. The quality of service that we are called to render to the country in democracy, the values of social cohesion and national unity, as well as the feeling of solidarity and justice are the main conditions for overcoming the great challenges facing us. This does not mean that each of the forces and each of the individuals who accept dialogue cannot suffer from some renunciation, while maintaining each one's own cultural and historical peculiarities. But this remains the necessary way to move in certain historical moments from diversity to collaboration. In expressing my consent, I hope that the implementation of the most important aspects of your programme, and particularly of the most urgent ones, will restore hope to the Italians. The last reason for my consent is the government's pro-European profile and your commitment with courage and realism. It is my firm conviction that we cannot be resigned to the new breath of Euroscepticism, fueled by the alleged faults of Europe, for the economic crisis and for the line of rigour sometimes imposed by the European countries. Today, if anything, we must strive for more Europe, a revival of the process of integration through the recovery of the essential reasons that inspired the process of the Founding Fathers. Only a united Europe will be able to confront the new emerging continental powers and to guarantee peace and the principles of democracy, equality and freedom. If we face some difficulties today, it is because the euro, symbol of the political construction of Europe, was created before the unification process was completed. The so-called functionalism of Jean Monnet, which had given so many results before, has proved ineffective in this case. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you spoke about the dream of the United States of Europe. This dream is mine too. I remember De Gasperi's words: Our destiny is indissolubly linked to that of Europe. If Europe fails, we all lose. As much as it is in my strength and my ability, I intend to offer you my contribution, along with a sincere personal commitment and a fervent wish for good work. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u59	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u60	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all we would like to point out that we have already participated in this phase of reconciliation with the election of the President of the Republic of Naples, a stage which, because of the crossed vetoes in the centre-left, could never see the light. The President, Mr Monti, characterized his Government on the front of the recovery and the consensus of Europe, forgetting however that the state is like a family, and a family, if it is in difficulty, the last thing it does is go to the bank to pay off its debts: maybe it asks for a delay, fixes the critical situations, and then it also tidys up the accounts; but it does not do the opposite. So the economy, with rigour and austerity, has come to its knees and we have to change the register. We are also aware, Mr President, that too many families today are in the grip of despair and discouragement and that this discomfort is likely to turn into anger and lead to acts like the last one we have witnessed in front of Palazzo Chigi. In this regard, I would like to express, on behalf of the whole Group of the North League and Autonomous States, the greatest solidarity with the Forces of Order for the risks they are facing despite and certainly not for their own faults. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Today the thought goes to the Carabiniere Giangrande and to the chosen Carabiniere Negri, for which we hope a ready and, above all, full healing. Your report, Mr President, is a mix of things that can be shared, of other obvious things and also of various inconsistencies. We have been preaching for a long time the need to back down on taxation, which has now reached unbearable levels. As far as youth work is concerned, we are wondering why, even, this enormous delay. If the tax authorities give up their claims on the work of young new recruits, they do not give up practically anything because if young people stay at home and companies do not hire, nothing enters the state's coffers. But it took a long time to understand this axiom! In the North our young people do not ask us for subsidies, but only to do what their fathers have always done: they ask us to be able to work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is therefore okay to reduce taxes on work. It is also okay for the policy, which you announced, to be on the house. In this respect, we support the need to encourage and support private implementation. The first house, President, does not give income: it is a necessity. A roof over the head is exactly like having bread on the table. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] And if it does not give income, it must not be taxed. This is our position. Moreover, a citizen who, with his own savings and efforts, constitutes his own home, avoids the State from having to intervene to provide public housing and these, depending on how they read, are enormous savings or enormous costs. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] We appreciate the stop at the payment of the June installment of the IMU on the first house, but only if this measure goes towards the total repeal of this ignoble tax. We share the need to revise the Stability Pact - which we have called for so many times - which has prevented those municipalities which have managed well to spend what they had available and to contribute, for what little they could do, to the economic growth of their respective territories. We share the blocking of the increase in VAT, which would only further depress the consumption of households, families that have run out of savings: the euro has halved their purchasing power, and today they are even changing their living habits. As you can see, Mr President, we have no hesitation in saying that we also share so many parts of your government agenda that you proposed to us yesterday. As far as justice is concerned - and here I would like to refer to Mr Compagna's speech - you, Mr President, have mentioned Cesare Beccaria, but it is the certainty of punishment and not the severity that deters deviance. And there is certainty when a state is able to make a system: politics makes good laws, the law enforcement agencies enforce them and the judiciary applies them. Very often, however, we have seen a dangerous release of this state system, where not all subjects tend to the same end. On this his Government should intervene firmly to restore legality but above all uniqueness in the action of the State. President, you want to bet on a new entrepreneurial spirit. Very well, but public administrations cannot pay the labour force more than private individuals can pay it, otherwise other than preaching the intrapresa, if it is then much more advantageous the simple "taking", with jobs much more comfortable and above all guaranteed. The bureaucracy must not oppress the creativity of Italians. Sacred words, President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Too often, however, that is what happens. You should do one simple thing: gather your executives and your officials and tell them that when a citizen crosses their offices they must not see him as a person who is going to bother them, but as one of their employers, who deserves respect, because if he stops paying, the conditions for their own salaries are not met. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] And you tell him that every day, President. As far as the enlarged welfare system is concerned, as you are proposing, let us make a few comments, which are not only ours but also Germany, the Netherlands and Austria. Countries that have written to the European Commission with a view to the expiry of the moratorium on transfers of Romanian and Bulgarian citizens. In Romania a worker receives 150-200 euros per month, and we are talking about setting up guarantee incomes that are four or five times these amounts: but who remains to work in those countries? Can our system hold this huge backlash? Let's think about it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] We learn that you, Mr President, would like to fly immediately to Brussels, Paris and Berlin. Don't let yourself be taken by that obsession with dialogue, image, suggestion. I do not know whether it will help to reassure Europe immediately, as did its predecessor Monti, for whom Europe's opinion was more important than that of Italian citizens. You say that our relations have been marked by 20 years of mutual attacks and delegitimacy that have eroded public confidence in the parties. Alas, it's true. Newspapers and televisions, moreover, have played their part, but on the other hand, Mr President, the vehemence with which some (in fact, several) of the Italian left have, even vulgarly, attacked the figure of the opponent Berlusconi was such, that today they remain themselves victims of that anti-Berlusconian fanaticism that they created. Many of your militants, now, at the sole thought of seeing the Horseman put back into play, are unleashing themselves with acts of violence unparalleled. I think of poor Bindi; I think of Franceschini. On the other hand, those who train masturbators to bite may sooner or later themselves be stunned. With regard to reforms, which are absolutely necessary, I would like to remind you of what the centre-right government of the North League and the PdL did in 2005. We have achieved exactly what everyone is asking for today. This choice was rejected in 2006, through referendum, under the pressure of the center-left that asked the Italians to reject that important reform. Today, if there had not been such an end to itself, we would have exactly what everyone wants: a more efficient state, no double votes, a single House that gives confidence to the government, less parliamentarians, reduced from 950 to 430, an economic shock that would drastically reduce public spending. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups]] Without fear, Mr President, we have told you what we are talking about, but let us also express our resentment for not having achieved all this first. We asked anyway and we did so much to get it. From today at least it seems that there is another climate, a new season. We will see: indeed, we hope so. Mr President, this is our attitude and our wish, and our benevolent abstention, which serves to inaugurate this season. While not giving her confidence, we hope to continue along this path, at last no longer opposed, but productive. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u62	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Senators, Civic Choice for Italy expresses its satisfaction at the successful conclusion of a phase in which the sense and role of politics seemed lost, its ability to take a nation by the hand, its people, lost in the face of the new problems that the globalised world poses to us, that the financial crisis has aggravated and that the progressive loss of confidence in the institutions, even (if not above all) due to the nefariousness that has been witnessed in the relationship between the ruling class and the public thing, has strongly compromised. This conclusion was that which Civic Choice for Italy had hoped since the day after the elections, when it appeared immediately clear that the electoral result would not allow a clear and homogeneous majority and that therefore only a Government based on the convergence of different forces could give a constituent and reformer profile to the legislature, broadening, integrating and completing what the Government led by Professor Monti, to which goes our gratitude for the essential contribution given to Italy to remain anchored to Europe and the club of the great protagonists of the world economy. Mr President, thank you for your serious, strong and reasoned language of truth. We hope that Parliament, the political forces and all those who promised to monitor it minute by minute will also grasp the same constructive spirit with which we have grasped it and with the awareness that such an ambitious plan takes time. The language of truth, however, requires us to say that certainly on the crisis have weighed the imbalances of a global finance that has wanted to become an economy itself that certainly weighs on a non-complete European construction that weighs on our currency, which certainly weighs the aggressiveness of the developing countries on our productive apparatus. And I could continue with the external causes that call for that European and international protagonism, which is very well outlined in your report. But you know that these are not only the causes: as has been pointed out in your report, there is a gap that concerns us, the Italy system, which you have well unveiled with authoritative determination in your speech and which makes the difference between ours and other European countries, who are also like us inside this Europe, within this world, and who have this currency. This gap is the inefficiency and ineffectiveness of an invasive state that penalises producers, which discourages investors. Mr President, it is necessary to support the need for growth and anti-recessive policies, but rigour, which is not the result of someone's masochism, is equally essential. We know that we cannot make growth and development only by increasing public debt or by loosening the parameters imposed at European level, those parameters that will enable us to build a political and monetary union based on solidarity, mutualisation of debt, the issuance of eurobonds that will be indispensable for growth. To get out of the crisis we must overcome this gap, these inefficiencies of the public administration. From now on, the indispensable institutional reforms must be the focus of our attention, but we know that these are not enough if the public administration does not return to be friends and not the counterpart of the citizens, especially of the productive forces of the country, if we do not face the nodes of the justice denied, of the small and great lawlessness. A lighter state, therefore, that spends less; a state that finances the development policies that you oriented with greater liberalisations, greater privatizations, with a valorization of the public heritage in order to reduce the debt that, as you know, cannot be solved only by growth. We must free up the energies of civil society, remove the last but heavy obstacles to an internal and European market, according to the indications that Professor Monti gave to the European Commission a few years ago and that we need a great commitment from this Government that must never forget to be a European co-legislator. Mr President, we know how serious and how heavy the burden has been placed on you. We are humanly and politically close to them. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u63	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u64	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, speaking of laws and legality, we in the 5 Star Movement are asking that the anti-corruption law, which is too weak, be immediately strengthened. Corruption today costs the country over 60 billion euros and is one of the causes of our economic crisis. It is unacceptable that in Parliament there are still 13 convicted and dozens of people subject to even very serious criminal proceedings. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We're not talking about crime of opinion, just to be clear. Even here the voice of the citizens is unheard. We are well aware of this since 2007, when 350,000 signatures for the popular law "Clean Parliament" were placed in the drawers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And related to corruption there is organized crime, the real cancer of this country; organized crime that today lives recycling money mainly in public procurement, building and gambling. The widespread gambling is one of the social and economic plagues of this country since the decree Bersani has liberalised it and the successive governments Berlusconi and Monti have strengthened its diffusion. We denounce to the country and Parliament the alarming data of ludopathy, gambling addiction. In the SerT today it is red alarm; it is a major emergency of drugs in several Italian realities. As the data released by associations such as CONAGA show, compared with eight billion euros of revenue for the state treasury, we have four billion non-VAT on consumption. People throw their money into the illusion of slot machines and online games instead of investing them differently. According to reliable Swiss studies, damage and health costs are estimated at six billion a year. Fifteen percent of marriages are shattered by ludopathy. Of course, it does not reassure the fact that many gambling companies see politicians or former politicians in a clear conflict of interest. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not to mention the 98 billion euros not paid by slot machines dealers, all practically condoned with unacceptable choices made by those who had conflicts of interest. We also ask ourselves what is the political opportunity to have among its financiers the owner of one of the 10 slot machine dealers, a Swiss financier, the Federacciai and the Federfarma, as reported in press articles. All legal funding, be it clear, but in the name of transparency we call for the immediate publication of all kinds of private contributions to politicians and parties online. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Albano and Petraglia]] We also call for all expenditure to be reported by Members of Parliament... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr President, I would ask you to be able to attach the remaining part of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u65	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u66	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u67	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you, and your Government, are perhaps one of the last possibilities for our country to find a good balance between different demands, destructive pressures and the desire to overcome the challenge of a crisis that is not only economic, whose signs of profound changes we have not been able to interpret in due course. We did not succeed when we gave up updating the labour market, looking especially at those who had to enter it and not only at those who had already entered it or when we continued to prevent companies and workers from finding new forms of alliance between capital and labour. We didn't succeed when we pretended that the fight against tax evasion was financial cover for everything, that hemorrhage of current spending that we can't stop despite years of linear cuts. And as we read in the DEF that we will approve next week, tax revenues increase as never before, but GDP falls inexorably increasing the overwhelming burden of debt and deficit, and businesses die in the meantime. And, as you have already said, Mr President, you can die of rigour without the appropriate development policies. Today that all the knots seem to have reached the comb, you propose to the country a deep care, starting from politics, to find again the harmony with the Italian citizens and their discomfort. This XVII legislature leads us, willing or unwilling, to deal with the social behaviors of citizens who, left alone by a policy distracted by the notoriety end in itself, often television, have sought on the Net asking for truth: 38 million Italians are connected in various ways to the most modern and magmatic information network that breaks into the budgets of traditional media (figure ourselves in our lives). Can politics continue to ignore this aspect of modern democracy instead of claiming its right for all, fueling the exclusive, perhaps someone's, representation of that people? You do well starting from these classrooms, from the profound reform of political representation in general, to indicate to that people and to the Italians all a strong reversal of course, starting from us and how much we cost and where we have wrong, if someone can write on that net and on the walls that the shots are for us. But do so also on the basis of those payments of public administration debts, which could, if paid quickly and without red tape, avoid the failure of thousands of companies, especially medium and small ones, by this year, and then find ourselves with other unemployed people. Do so from the relaunch of public works and through policies favourable to businesses and possible financial levers. Do so by returning the IMU to the Italians, but within new fiscal policies that reward those who work, who produce and who consume, and criminalize on the contrary old and new annuities. Do this for those children who, thanks to the changes introduced by the Senate to the Balduzzi decree, wait to be treated in our public hospitals, instead of dying, through the experimentation of stem cells in a research that everyone invokes but no one ever does not disturb the powerful economic interests of the drug. Propose policies and do not be fooled by politics. The difficulty, Keynes said, lies not in believing in new ideas, but in fleeing from old ones. And listen to the women in your government, Mr President, who are rightly leading key departments. They'll be very valuable to you. Your schedule convinces us. We have appreciated your choices and we will support you firmly in the decisions, perhaps difficult, how difficult the moment is, for the good of all Italians who will have to see confirmed, every day, the certainty that you will guide this country out of the ideological, political, moral and economic dryness in which it has been stranded. Good work, President, and good work to your ministers, as to all Italians who do not want to give up. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u69	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said that Europe is our natural dimension and that the real limitation of sovereignty is to think of Italy without Europe. We think so, too. The country's crucial problems are addressed only by pursuing the construction of a political and not only monetary Europe and by adopting strong cohesion and integration policies. In short, the dream of the United States of Europe. Italy must play a leading role in the European scenario, without any mental reservations, bringing its needs to it and participating in the construction of common choices. Firstly, there is the urgent need to correct the one-way austerity strategy pursued for five years now without definitive successes in debt and at the price of a long and tearing recession. There are more and more voices calling for a breakthrough, not to deny the need to put and maintain accounts in order, but to make the fight against the crisis fairer and more effective. There is no recovery without courageous choices for growth, without investment for work and new development, without reducing the inequalities magnified by the crisis. The Democratic Party has often said so on its own since 2008. Most people today support it. Then do something concrete as soon as possible. Its decision to visit the main European capitals immediately to reaffirm Italy's European vocation will give it more strength to renegotiate the most negative and paralysing aspects of its austerity policy and its obligations, starting with the Internal Stability Pact. This would create a new relationship of trust and closeness between Europe and the Member States and between Europe and citizens. The Europe that exists today does not satisfy us and is not enough for quantity and quality. We want more and better, even by fighting the instrumental positions that blame everything, always and in any case, in Brussels or that feed conflicts between donor countries and assisted countries, concealing the truth that most of the aid returns to those who give it, in terms of orders or exports. We will support and encourage you, Mr President, on the broad and ambitious horizon that you have proposed. Europe as a natural area, a place for commitment to peace and security, social and civil rights and cooperation. On civil rights, Europe is for us a source of stimulus and cultural openness: inclusion and citizenship, gender equality, couples' rights, laws against homophobia, new third-generation rights borders. We are confident of your Government's firm commitment to Europe. The dynamism of our society also passes from here and the times are ripe for consistent choices. Just his mention of the Mediterranean and the need, also for our security and prosperity, to help Arab revolutions. It is a fine sign of openness which you gave by appointing Mr Cécile Kyenge as Minister. They are the right gestures of a policy that wants to raise its head and broaden its eyes. The moral crisis is faced, of course, by cutting the blue cars, but even more by doing concrete works of good and new politics. The Europeanist choice and the civil rights that you indicate to us is a decisive element of this new and good policy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u70	The debate is closed. I communicate to the Assembly that motion No 30 has been tabled, within the time limits set, and is being distributed, signed by Senators Zanda, Schifani, Susta, Ferrara Mario and Zeller. I note that from 11.30 a.m. the direct television broadcast will take place; I therefore briefly suspend the session for technical requirements. (The sitting was suspended at 11.29 a.m. and resumed at 11.31 a.m.) I warn my colleagues that the direct television broadcast with RAI is underway. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Letta.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u71	Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, I confess to you that my day began this morning with the reading of the newspapers and then continued with the meeting with Israeli President Shimon Peres and with the words I have heard in this House. It is a day of great concern, because from these three moments (the reading of this morning's newspapers, the words I heard from President Shimon Peres and some of the comments I have heard here in the Senate) I realized that there is a big problem: there is a load of expectations absolutely excessive about this Government, with reference to everything that the country would need and that has been repeated here, with respect to the objective - I want to reiterate here - fragility of what we have done and are doing. If there is no awareness of this and if there is, instead, the feeling that all the problems are solved (we have today a strong, strong government that is in place, that it has solved everything and that, therefore, from tomorrow morning it is able immediately to give answer to the many problems that the country has), I believe that we have all wrong. It's not like that. The situation we are facing is and remains a situation of great difficulty and great emergency and the choice that we all make here today, and we have done, is a child of this situation. If we are here, full of determination, good will and energy, aware of our limitations, it is because there is this emergency situation, which does not disappear because yesterday the House gave confidence to the Government and because today - as I hope will happen - this confidence will be confirmed by the Senate. I want to say this because I have listened to the various speeches: we are obviously very grateful to all of you for the words used and, above all, for the load of expectations that has been confirmed here. The words of Senator Bonfrisco now, those of Senator Martini and President Susta just now clearly indicated how much this load of expectations exists. We are grateful for this, but the problem is that of the situation we are facing. I want to say a few very clear words about this, before the start of the 36 hours of meetings in the European capitals (Brussels, Paris and Berlin) where I will first try to introduce myself. I think it is in fact important, from this point of view, to open a communication channel, trying to tell what has happened in Italy in the last five days. We are in it, and so for us it's all clear, but I think it's not a simple exercise to tell - and do it explicitly - what happened in Italy in five days. I started and tried to do it, and this afternoon and tomorrow I will definitely do my part. Yesterday's speech is worth - I say this in relation to the possible controversy and misunderstandings of these hours - because that speech was given in front of Parliament and is written: that is the basis on which the work of our Government is based. It is worth that speech on all the issues, starting with the thorniest ones, and it is worth the team of ministers you have before you and you are preparing to give or deny trust. I believe that the team of ministers is in itself a part of the programme. I say this, for example, with regard to some of the concerns of these hours on the subject of municipalities: we have chosen the President of the ANCI as Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government. This is a sign in itself: I do not think I have to add many words on this issue. The team, as has been asked and said - Senator Carraro spoke about it just now - will work with Parliament in a proper relationship, because we have lived, in particular in the last ten years, a Parliament-Government relationship that has gradually become more asymmetrical. Obviously this is not only the fault of bad governments; it is also the fault of the fact that objectively our institutions do not work with a system that sees 945 parliamentarians, divided between two rooms that have exactly the same powers. Hence the issue of the constituent Convention, which we put at the centre of our reflection yesterday, and which I repeat in this House. Many of the senators who have spoken about this this morning have spoken about it: it is an issue which, among other things, makes it easier for me to speak about in this House, because in the last parliamentary term it was done here in a very strong, very strong and profound work - and I call President Schifani as a witness - which has led to so many possible points of convergence, which I think - and I hope so - must be used. I indicated yesterday the eighteen-month deadline for the work of the Convention, not because I am disrespectful of Parliament, because Parliament is totally free and sovereign, but simply because I believe that the life of this Government is and should be linked to certain certain obligations that citizens must be able to demand from us. As far as we are concerned, that firm point is an essential point, precisely because the difficulty of the problems facing us requires institutions that are able to decide, and to decide on the more complicated and more complex issues. Many have been mentioned here. Many senators spoke on the subject of work, touching on various points, such as Senators Nencini and De Cristofaro, or the Divine Senator, who first addressed a number of aspects that have to do with the theme of the work of young people. Then there is the question of the overall redefinition of our welfare: on these issues I listened to the speeches of Senators Maria Cecilia Guerra, and Annamaria Parente. It will be a big issue we will discuss. I believe that the Minister, who is mainly entrusted with this delegation, also because of his skills, his knowledge of the situation and the experience he had previously in an international body that is very important and avant-garde on these issues, will make sure to apply in Italy the best experiences that have been realized in other countries and will also allow us to better understand the state of the art and the social situation of a country that we often and willingly go on with stereotypes. Situations have changed in recent years and to have complete certainty of how things stand I think that is one of the points definitely essential. When I was talking about expectations, I also realized another fundamental point: measures matter, but I believe that the most important element that has failed in Italy is the trust of the people, families and businesses that have decided to stop investing. They did not do it because there was a law of one type or another, but because a climate has been created that we have all lived together, a climate for which even those who have not lost their jobs and have not seen a change in their income situation decided to completely lower the rate of their investments and consumption. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] This is precisely because of an overall climate that has ended up creating a screw-up, against which what is said in this House and what we do in the end will be decisive and decisive. If there are words of trust and the feeling that Italy can actually get out of this situation, then the country will be able to do so, and not because we will have passed a law that will get it out of the crisis. In fact, there will never be a law, a paragraph, an administrative act that will get us out of this situation, but it will only happen if all together we perceive that this is the common responsibility that we have and if we realize that we have to change this concept of common responsibility, not only in Italy, but also in Europe. In fact, what is happening here is happening in practically the same way in the rest of Europe: wherever there is this same situation of screwing and of difficulty, in respect of which or there is the ability all together to look long or certainly we will not succeed. I listened with great interest and passion to the speeches which focused on the subject of Europe. I mention in particular those of Senator Compagna and President Colombo, as well as the intervention of Senator Martini who mentioned some points related, for example, to the issue of rights and that I want to resume and underline. With regard to the European issue, all of a sudden, at the worst moment of the crisis, it has come to light as the original plan that had been put on the ground twenty years ago, after the end of the East-West opposition, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, a just original plan, namely that of making Europe all round, not only of the currency, but also of economic and social policies, the Europe of the common foreign policy, the Europe of bringing together also our ability to defend our borders, in fact, has been done one thing: the single currency. Everything else has remained either sketched or not advanced enough. But if you make only the currency (which is a right thing), in the end it is the rest of the mechanism that fails to give answers to the violent crisis as it came out. Today we must recover that lost time, and that time was lost because too many countries looked at the next election and, looking at the next election, they said: My fellow citizens will not understand if we give up sovereignty on this point as well. And, not yielding sovereignty on that point too, he let it be only the coin that united us. But a continent like ours, the continent on which democracy was born, cannot be united only by currency. In the end the contradiction emerges, it breaks out: and that is exactly what happened during this period. The issue of the European crisis is primarily a democratic one, a matter of democracy, it is a matter of sovereignty; it is a matter of effective response. I am convinced that this will be one of the great issues that we will have to face. You will allow me to tell you, on this subject, that I am convinced that this is not a technical matter of paragraphs, of a treaty of one type or of another: it is a matter of making Brussels bureaucracy, European political leaders and all citizens understand definitively that our destiny as a European is either common or it is a destiny made up of individual countries that will slowly decline, in a world in which the presence of powers of one billion inhabitants will ultimately prevail. Either we realize this, and then we all have a future, or I think that Europe is hardly able to play its part. This is true of those themes and applies to many other things. Of course, that applies to the issues we have discussed here today. I have resumed and resumed the intervention of Senator Giannini, who has touched on many themes that I share very much (the themes of culture, school, university, themes that have to do with the future, of course), but knowing that we have to change on many things. We need to change the rules, but we also need to change the rules on minor things. I want to say this because I want to take up the intervention of Senator Casaletto, who mentioned a very sectoral issue, but I need it to use it as an example of the working method: he mentioned the question of stadiums. One will say: what do stadiums have to do with Europe? I think it has something to do with it for a very simple reason. The basic theme is this: we must leave everything exactly as it is in our country, all standing still, why do anything frightens us with respect to the consequences that it could have? I take this example of stadiums for a very simple reason: the stadiums in Italy are almost all stages of decades ago, all stopped inside the heart of our cities. Every time, to get there, we arrive not public transport, but we get cars, exhaust gases, inside our cities, in a condition in which this happens; it is not that it does not happen, this happens. Then we have to realize that around these issues we have to make changes, which ultimately serve everyone: they serve to make sure that there are more people who can live around these economic mechanisms, serve to free up the historical centers and serve many other similar aspects. I mentioned this issue because it was mentioned earlier and because I needed it to express this reasoning of concreteness, with respect to which I would like us to move, and to move with determination. I listened to the opening of credit that the League wanted to give, Senator Divine. I have taken it very carefully, also with respect to the public words that I have heard in recent days and that Senator Calderoli here also said on the subject of the constituent Convention. There will be, on the part of all of us, the will to make this common path; and I think we will do it to the end. This path will be based primarily on the theme of the Convention and the ability to respond to the issues that have been raised here, with the attention that you wanted to mention. I want to conclude with a reflection on the issues that have been mentioned by many. The great coalition, the fear of mixing, the political theme that obviously concerns our being together. Senator Corsini made a reference earlier that struck me. I want to translate it this way: the fear comes of making choices like those we are making, and you do not make these choices, if you are afraid of your identity, if you think you have a weak identity. If you are convinced of your identity, in the face of a situation like the one we are facing, we realize that there is no alternative to what we are doing. But we need to be aware of identity. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]] We must not be afraid of what each of us is, of what each of us thinks and of what each of us has built, in terms of political forces. I don't think Silvio Berlusconi is a person with a weak identity, if I didn't misunderstand the character. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Mr Quagliariello.]] I think, at the same time, that I too am a person who, in these years of national politics, has made a political journey. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] of building a party that is aware and proud of its identity and what it has done: to have simplified the system through new political forces that have managed to build new identities compared to the past. We are proud of what we have done. However, if we are proud of what we have done, we must not be afraid of policies. I repeat: we must not be afraid of policies. Senator Compagna said earlier: in the face of policies it is possible, it is absolutely possible to find common solutions. Conversely, if we are still, each raising his own flag and his own banner and making this banner become the element with which we cover the weak identity, then we do not recover the principle of reality. Senator Puppato said it first: the principle of reality. That's right. That's the reality. I believe that the most important characteristic of a elected politician in Parliament is the sense of reality. You cannot think that reality is simply your own, the one you perceive. No, the reality is what we are facing and it is not - perhaps - the reality that we would like to see. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, LAG and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI]] We would like this reality to be different. I'd like her to be different, too. I too would have wanted a different electoral outcome and I too would have liked to be, not sitting here, but perhaps on one side of this table, in a political government other than this. But the reality before us is - I believe - the main theme that a politician must put at the centre of his action. The rest is all secondary: either there is this attention to nerve the values that each of us has in this reality, or we tell ourselves about fairy tales to be quiet and to remove burdens from our conscience. I believe that this is the main theme of our action. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, LN-Aut, GAL and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI, whose senators stand up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u72	I thank the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u75	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, President-in-Office of the Council, allow me to express once again, on behalf of myself and my Group, closeness and solidarity to the Brigadier Giangrande and the Carabiniere Negri, their families and to Martina Giangrande, a young and strong woman who tells us what our young people are. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, PdL and Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI]] Left Ecology and Freedom will not vote for trust in your Government, not for fear and not for washing your conscience. We cannot vote for the confidence of a government which is a direct son - I apologise for the frankness - of a shameful ambush to President Prodi by those who wanted, precisely, this outcome, a very broad Government, but without ever having the courage to say it and to conduct a battle with an open face, cultivating to the end ambiguity. We cannot vote for confidence because we cannot betray the vote and the hope of change that millions of voters had handed over to us and to the coalition in Italy. Common good (i.e. After the failed experience of supporting the government of broad understandings Monti (the same majority of today), largely rejected by the vote, the center-left presented itself to the elections promising a turning point in economic and social policies through the escape from the policies only regoristic, one-way and, above all, promising closure (finally!) of the Berlusconian 20 years that brought the country into this dramatic situation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Its government, President Letta, has this original sin: it is the result of a sudden U conversion of the political line with which we had presented ourselves at the elections and on which, moreover - I would like to remind you here - the primary of the center-left coalition had been celebrated. You cannot bland your left-wing electorate and then do exactly the opposite: that is how you fail your electoral mandate, and that cannot be without consequences. This will deepen - and this is what concerns us - the gap between citizens and institutions, and will once again undermine the credibility of politics and politicians. Of course, we do not want to silence the responsibilities of those who, like the friends of the 5 Star Movement, have not been able to seize the great historical opportunity that we had to create a programmatic government of change. That is why, in order to leave hope to the left and to rebuild a centre-left project, we cannot vote for trust. We take full responsibility for it, and also the burden. For you too, friends of the Democratic Party, it is an investment to try to rebuild on these rubbles and to keep a hope alive. For consistency, therefore, and to look at a new restart, and why we cannot surrender to transformism as the only political figure of this country's political history from unity to today [[Applause from Senators Petraglia and Campanella]] and because politics understood as we mean it, as a pursuit of the common good, cannot live by infinite tactics alone without ideas. The left can't do that, he can't go over his own principles. It has no alternative to being transparent, coherent, sincere. It cannot go against its own nature, worth losing forever itself and its own people. We cannot vote for trust because its Government is born with a very heavy mortgage: the continuity of the Berlusconian system of power. The hypothesis of a Berlusconi presidency of the Convention on Reform is evidence of this, and these days, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, mortgages lead to foreclosure, as many citizens know. They tell us and tell us that the current situation is exceptional and that this exceptionality justifies this PD-PdL Government, the opposite of the solemn commitment we had entered into. But why, weren't the conditions of the country just as exceptional in the days when we built the coalition? Where we went campaigning? In the days before and after the vote? Were we not faced with a terrible crisis, made even more terrible by the wrong recipes of a government supported by the same parliamentary majority that is now being reformed? What makes you think that the same medicine that aggravated the disease instead of healing it, this time, as by magic, will work? Italy had and needs dramatically a turning point in order to restart the economy: to create work focusing on innovation, environment, culture, green economy, renewable energies, energy efficiency, territorial redevelopment, those small large works, those that really serve our country. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] He needs to invest in public school, in culture, in research, in agriculture, in the extraordinary vocations of this beautiful country of ours. Many of these themes you have mentioned (we give them act), you have declined them in your programmatic speech. But its government is based on a fragile political and programmatic balance, precisely with that center-right that is responsible for the current breakdown, which has, above all, pursued the idea of development at the antipodes with these ideas. There will be a reason why in Italy environmentalism, the only case in Europe, has found home - and not often - only in the center-left, being the center-right Italian ontologically refractory to this theme. Then we add that you have declined dozens of targets. We want to understand what the priorities really are, and we will see when the moments of the choices arrive. We will see how to deal first with the issue of issues: the great social inequality that has been produced in our country, the gigantic redistribution of income at the top, totally expropriating the middle class and the weak, the poor people of our country. We certainly cannot ignore - and we acknowledge this - the elements of innovation as well, the commitment to exit from the line of blind rigour, especially with regard to European policies: a cure - as many have now finally understood - that is killing the patient. We grasp the new composition of the Government, with the presence of many women, although not yet sufficient, and the generational leap. Our opposition, as the Left Ecology and Freedom, will be not detrimental, but constructive. It will also be an ambitious opposition, because we want to bring home results precisely for our country, and we will do so with determination, hoping that this Parliament will regain strength and centrality. We want to pursue certain strategic objectives, such as the establishment of a guaranteed minimum income, on which a law of popular initiative has been introduced. We invite everyone to work to achieve this important goal immediately. With regard to the amendment of the electoral law, we are presenting a proposal here, and we will see if everyone is in good faith: we abolish the 'Porcellum', restoring immediately, immediately - then we will discuss - as a safeguard clause and as proof of reliability, the previous system. We will work, with the hope of having many fellow senators at our side, on the conflict of interests, the great removed theme that has poisoned the public life of our country and that has been silenced in its interventions. We work and work for a real law against corruption. We've all been working on the bracelet. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]] Now it's time to do your duty here. We'll work to get a law on the country's energy transition passed, to protect the territory. In short, a programmatic challenge to try anyway to make live the alternative project that the center-left people asked for with the vote, and continues to ask. I hope, Mr Letta, that you will not be able to cope with a purely aesthetic operation. We're not gonna let that happen. We will push it point by point because from the opposition we do not renounce to want to be - as Alex Langer said - bearers of hope for all those who really need hope and concrete interventions to change their desperate material living conditions. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u78	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, Mr Letta, this seems to us to be a good government. We will vote on it and we are happy about it. As we said at the time of the consultation, we reaffirm here that this is not the best government for us, even under that criterion of identity to which she referred just now. It is not even the only Government possible, as President Napolitano said, although in another context. It is a good government for the country, because we continue in that process of peace that we have the pride to remember being the first to invoke, perhaps also for fate and protocol, when we were first called to the consultation at the Quirinale as Mixed Group of the Senate of the Republic. Finally, in Italy we also have a great coalition, a unique formula to deal with and resolve the serious moments of crisis; and the current crisis is a very serious crisis that seems to derive from the rebalancing between the different economic systems of the planet but that pours into the most industrialized countries, and therefore on those with remote industrialization, the greatest harmful consequence. Italy, among these countries, is the weakest by structure and maturity, and therefore is the one that suffers the most. The precedents of a political choice like this are many: let's think of Brandt and Kissinger in Germany in 1966; let's also remember that in England, from 1931 to 1945, there was a common government among Labour, Liberals and Conservatives that helped solve the very serious problems of the Great Depression and then of the Second World War; still today there is the example of Merkel, while in France it is these days, these hours, the debate to convince Hollande how, in a moment of such serious crisis, there is need to enlarge his Government also to the gollists. Then there is the magic formula in Switzerland, and other cases still. Finally, in Italy too, we have made a courageous choice to recover that set-up and maturity necessary to help the country to stem the crisis and therefore to suffer less. At last an opportunity to be used immediately, fully, even before the eighteen months that the President recalled in his speech to the Chamber of Deputies, to ensure that our institutions are greened up, and not only with reference to the average age of the Executive, but to give new vigour to our old and unique, among the so-called Western countries, form of State and Government. Let us remember, however, that the strongest states not only economically but socially, as is used to classify, with the highest quality of life indicators, are those States which are also Nation. And then, President Letta, sillogism is the following: the Italian nation, by culture, by language, by historical tradition, goes from the Alps to Lampedusa; the success factor, Rousseau said, for the institutions is the harmonious identity of national politics. Consequences of sillogism: there is no possibility, President Letta, to successfully reform the national state except with the harmonious involvement of the South of the country. And involving the Mezzogiorno of Italy means, as President Napolitano also said, raising it from a spiral of backwardness and impoverishment; it means giving the Mezzogiorno of Italy opportunities for development made of infrastructure and security; it means good management of European funds; it sometimes means, in order to achieve this (by overcoming "pastoiose" Prudences, so abused), having the courage to resort to initiatives that replace responsibility without reading the political connotation of this or that regional government. You see, President Letta, on 36 pages of her speech she dedicated one to the Mezzogiorno: it is as if on 365 days of a year the Government wanted to devote 10 to the Mezzogiorno (and you should be lucky that these 10 were not Saturdays or Sundays). Perhaps a little bit, but I hope you wanted to be led by an elegant backhand, the backhand that should involve all honest politicians when, speaking of Mezzogiorno, they realize that there has been too much talk about it and little has been done and that therefore it would be better to keep quiet than to keep talking in vain. Then I hope you want to rely on things to do and not things to say. As well as optimistically I think that when it says: "to put in condition the South to grow alone" she wants to refer to the South in twenty years, because how can the South today grow alone if there we do not build the roads that it does not have, the ports and the airports that it does not have, if there we do not bring the same trains of the other part of the country, if there we do not cabl the optical fibers or, even more easily, we do not pass the electric lines that are not there? President Letta, you say that we must not put our heads in the sand; but we must not turn them on the other side. And the side to which we invite you to turn is the one where the weakest groups are most present, the one where the highest is unemployment, emigration, school dispersal, youth discomfort. It is the side where there is the sun, where there is the most beautiful sea, where there is the most creative food and wine, where there is the archaeological richness, the monumental beauty: it is the South. Let's remember, President Letta: it is the South that gave his copious tribute of blood for the Unity of Italy; it is the South, the South, which gave the cannon meat in the Second World War; it is the South where there are more Greek temples than in Greece; it is the South where there is Agrigento, which is the most appreciated archaeological site in the world after Cairo; it is the South where Archimedes and Empedocles were born, Didoro Siculo, Talete and Tommaso Campanella, Pirandello and Quasimodo; Croce, Gentile, De Nicola, Di Vittorio; it is in Palermo that Frederick II and Costanza D'Altavilla are buried; Sicilians are Falcone and Borsellino and Sicilian is the Carabiniere Giangrande. [[Applause from the LAG Group and the Russian Senator.]] Let us remember that, President Letta, not because it is written in history books: let us remember when we write the state budget. The South must represent not only market demand, but must be the integrated wealth of the nation. This is the only way, Mr. Letta, the only solution, the only alternative, the real, incredible, unused resource of the country. Of course, the South will not be able to grow alone; it will only be able to be rigorous if it has the help of us and of the Government, so that it can be fulfilled and developed: only - I repeat - if the Government plays its part and we, Mr President, are moderately convinced of this. I therefore wish her and you good work, but also we who, in order to do our part, will actively check that you do your job. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u79	Colleagues, I greet the students of the Scuola Statale di 1° grade "Enrico Cocchia" of Cesinali, in the province of Avellino, who follow our works carefully. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u82	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and not only on a personal basis, on the great capacity and stubbornness with which you have managed to set up a strong and highly esteemed government at a negative economic and social level and political level. They are personalities who over the years have made a great contribution to our country, perhaps not always in the front line, but we are sure that they will be able to be bearers of appropriate choices and widely shared by us all. In essence, you have presented us with a good team, Mr. Letta, and the Senators of the Group for the Autonomies - PSI will vote for your government. It is an executive that, with the credibility of an innovative government team, with a strong female presence, and consistent programmatic indications, opens a new political and parliamentary phase. A government that also recognizes the constitutional reasons and the pact for strengthening the special autonomy. We also believe that the reformist choices you have indicated are the only possible way to restore full representativeness to the political system, centrality to the role of Parliament and effectiveness to government action. That the country as a whole has reached the deepest dimension of the crisis is evident because of the enormous economic and social difficulties that have manifested itself while at the same time politics and institutions in recent times were forced into a state of immobility. We fully share the priorities that have been stated in your government programme and reiterated in your speech to the Chambers. Firstly, there is an urgent need for an economic policy of growth and social cohesion, including in order to achieve effective debt reduction and sustainable budgetary policies. In particular, we also call for the reinforcement of basic protection for atypical workers. However, in order to ensure the financial coverage (this will be our problem) of its ambitious programme, it will not be possible to further increase the tax burden, already at levels that are difficult to sustain for businesses and families, as many of its predecessors have done. It will therefore take renewed negotiations in Europe to loosen the tight links of the Stability Pact. To this end, the path taken by President Letta to meet European leaders in the coming days to start negotiations is the only way. The path will not be easy, indeed it will be very difficult and full of obstacles, but we are confident that its government can succeed. We also share the objective of the new Government to make the administrative system simpler and less costly, especially for businesses (this is one of the real challenges for Parliament). The competitiveness of our companies vis-à-vis other European countries is suffering also and above all from the weight of bureaucratic burdens, often unnecessary and inexplicable. The implementation of Community directives should not always be an opportunity to introduce new mechanisms and burdens, which are unknown elsewhere, such as SISTRI for non-hazardous waste. Government and Parliament must finally stop inventing new and more complicated mechanisms that are not even taken into account in other countries of the European Union. The solution would be quite simple: why not focus on the legislation and examples of good practice of the Nordic countries that have better interpreted the needs of companies in the implementation of European commitments? It is absolutely a priority - as we have already pointed out - the tax reduction in support of incomes, households and businesses, as you supported in your policy statements, in particular the renunciation of the tightening up of VAT, the suspension of the IMU for a general reform of the current system of taxation, in order to support the enterprises in order to allow a total increase of productivity and competitiveness. The priority of constitutional and parliamentary reforms affecting the political system requires, first and foremost, an unavoidable and urgent reform of electoral law. We fully share his goal of transforming the Senate into the Chamber of Regions with a strong differentiation of the tasks of the two chambers, finally overcoming the perfect bicameralism, unknown in other countries and unique in the world. At the same time, the number of members of the Chamber of Deputies will have to be reduced in line with the parliaments of other European countries. Our support for the Government is based on the full recognition that you, as President of the Council, have made in your consultations and policy statements with regard to the cultural and political history of linguistic minorities and special Autonomous States. I refer in particular to the Covenant for the Self-Government, which was defined and signed with SVP and PATT, also thanks to its contribution, which marked our position and participation in the general elections. This agreement is reinforced by its policy statements and represents a positive turning point in the direction of the ever-increasing development and development of special self-governments. With this in mind, we are confident that you will put an end to the huge number of litigation pending before the Constitutional Court against the autonomy, because the previous Government has challenged all regional and provincial laws and, vice versa, we were forced to challenge government and Parliament's laws. We must avoid new conflicts and restore the legislative and administrative autonomy of the Regions, but above all (and this is very close to our heart) we must restore the principle of understanding and loyal collaboration that has always been the basis of the relationship between the State and the Regions. Our role as Special Autonomies is inspired by a model of territorial cohesion and peaceful coexistence between the different language groups. I would also like to remind you that the Special Regions and the Autonomous Provinces that we represent, in terms of resources, have always contributed to the needs of the country in order to restore public finance, in particular since 2010, after the so-called Milan agreement, made between the two governors and the ministers Calderoli and Tremonti. Unfortunately, the former Government has often trampled on constitutional rules by rejecting real confrontation and serious dialogue, even as a result of our favorable decisions of the Supreme Court, causing a continuous conflict before the Constitutional Court. From this point of view, your Government will be faced with a very heavy legacy, also because of the financial consequences of these judgments which have not even been considered in the budget at the moment. However, we are confident that within a short time we will find an agreement acceptable both for the Special Autonomies and for the Government and that we are also willing to assume the exercise of further state functions, and consequent burdens, such as those for the management of the Stelvio National Park, the administrative staff of the justice and the tax agencies. We believe that a closer link should be established between those who take care of the revenue side and those who decide on expenditure, and in order to start this demanding work and therefore to draw up the implementing rules for the Special Statutes, it is necessary as soon as possible to set up joint committees. But we are convinced that in your Government, and in particular in Minister Graziano Delrio, we will find sensitive and attentive interlocutors. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Autonomous Group - PSI. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u85	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Letta, we have listened carefully to your speech to the House and to today's reply. A high and very wide intervention. The North League has always said, from the day after the elections, that the people needed a government, a government with full powers, a political government and not a technical government. In your speech, however, you illustrated all the issues that unite the various coalitions and parties, winking even at the Groups that had already declared their vote against, while looking at the most thorny issues. We want to understand, for example, what you think, President Letta, about the issues related to immigration, the ius soli and the fearful cancellation of the Bossi-Fini. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. It has instead listed a long and serious list of critical issues, unfortunately well known: from the economic crisis to the immense public debt, from fiscal consolidation to the measures necessary for growth. Yes, because without growth, without development, without work, one cannot hope to get out of this crisis or to fulfil the commitments already made in Europe. And we agree that urgent recovery policies are needed, safeguarding public finances. The North League cannot fail to appreciate this when it comes to reducing the tax wedge, tax on labour, which we could also suggest the cancellation of the Irap on business. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It is no coincidence that our proposals include a tax on the recruitment of young people, a tax policy on incentives for housing and the construction sector, a driving economic sector that has suffered more than others from the economic crisis. Meanwhile, fiscal pressure - according to recent data from ISTAT - has reached 46 percent, but the real one, Mr President, exceeds 55%, so that our entrepreneurs (40% of companies are in the North, with more than 600 billion gross domestic product achieved only in the North) work until September to maintain this state and only three months for themselves and their families. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] As long as there is a part of the country that produces resources and a part that consumes them, we will continue to shout at this as a robbery and that this situation must end. A substantial part of the resources of the territory, in all the territories from the North to the South, must remain in the regional and in favour of the citizens who have generated these resources. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] How can we, however, fail to adhere to the proposals to speed up public administration payments and to amend the Stability Pact on local authorities? It is an evil pact, which must be changed, but also taking into account the virtuosity of the local authorities, which has prevented for years the investments by municipalities, provinces and regions; that European pact which we have immediately opposed, which has prevented the restructuring of schools, Mr President, and sports facilities and the security of the territory by the hydrogeological disaster, which you yourself, Mr President, have mentioned. How can we fail to accept the statements on overcoming the IMU? However, we must be precise. It will only be a suspension in June, and then the citizens will have to pay it all in December, since in the DEF, as you know, it has been made permanent, or is it the whole cancellation of taxation on the first house, as all citizens would like? On the sterilization of VAT, the increase expected in July will cost 103 euros per family (2 billion total), considering that in 2012 there has already been a significant contraction in consumption, and this further increase, together with TARES, will have a deflective and recessive effect on the economy. This does not seem to us to be of little importance. But let us not forget also the Cassa Integrazione (2.5 billion), the refinancing of missions abroad (1.5 billion) and the exodus node: 200,000 people who have found themselves out of retirement and out of work because of a dull reform that has not considered them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The Fornero reform, which you, Mr Letta, recalled yesterday, blocked the incoming flexibility for thousands of young people. Mr President, the North League will not vote in favour of trust. He will not vote for it because, although he shares the actions and proposals, he does not believe that this is really feasible. We would have expected a few points, but certain, real and achievable; we would have expected more attention to the North and to the Northern question. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Why, President, try to avoid it? Why not realize that the regions that produce more wealth than they consume, the macro-area that approaches the German industrial districts rather than those of Greece, are a priority to be addressed immediately? Few points, Mr Letta, but with adequate economic cover, because you, Mr President, have not told us where you will find the resources, where the revenue or the cuts that will have to be made for a blanket that is too short. And we do not want these resources to be sought out in the North, precisely in those small and medium-sized enterprises which you referred to as the engine of economic development, those small and medium-sized enterprises which suffer a heavy credit crunch. On this point as well as on the role of the banks and the sick finance we would have expected, Mr Letta, a greater stance. Where have cooperative credit banks that assessed the solvency of companies not on the strict European capital parameters of Basel but on a long history of good management of business resources gone? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] And why do our companies have to pay 3% more on bank loans than other competing countries, such as Germany? As far as the vote so far is concerned, we should vote against it not only not in favour, but definitely against it. It is true, however, that in the second part of his speech we appreciated what we are interested in: the charter of reforms, real reforms, constitutional reforms that change the state structure. We have appreciated the proposal of the Convention for Reforms and the deadline that has been set, 18 months, to start and implement them: an adequate time, which leads us to want to be protagonists of these reforms. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] To remember, Mr President, we had already done so in 2005. It should not be forgotten, in fact, that the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, the Federal Senate, the overcoming of bicameralism would have been operational for years had there been no preconceived opposition to devolution, to a reform that would have been epochal. In any case, Mr President, we are not interested in government seats, even though you had proposals for them; we are not interested in the presidencies of the guarantee committees: this, compared to others, I want to say clearly. We are interested in the answers to the North that we govern: the distribution of resources where they are produced, infrastructure, the cost cuts of politics, fiscal federalism, with the application of standard costs, institutional federalism and macro-regions, macro-regions on the European model, in a modern Europe that does not think only of the single currency, the return from deficit and fiscal compact, a Europe of the peoples, of the federal states, as you said, President. A Europe that tackles together the economic and social inequalities of the federal countries and protects and values the local autonomous. The United States of Europe, a democratic and non-bureaucratic Europe, a Europe that defends our manufacturing and quality products [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Sangalli.]] On this second part we have modified our vote against in an opening of credit to this Government. We will not be in opposition but we will abstain: a responsible abstention, but be sure that we will act as a stimulus and as a pungolo on every measure; support for the reforms that will be completed, Mr Letta, that is, that period of 18 months that you yourself have given yourself. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u86	I greet the students of the Secondary State School of First Degree "Giovanni Bartolena" of Livorno, who follow our works. Thanks, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u89	Olivero (SPI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Senators and Senators, the Civic Choice Group for Italy with great conviction and full responsibility will express the confidence that you are presenting in the Senate today. It does so with the conviction of those who for a long time, even before the election, proposed a Government by the large parliamentary majority to face the reforms of the country. It does so with the responsibility of those who, conscious of the climate of harsh opposition that has characterized these months, believe that this Government can represent the start of a new phase, of a national pacification to which the President of the Republic Napolitano has long recalled us. But to bring us to the decision of full support for your Government, Mr President-in-Office, are also the timely and convincing analyses and proposals you put forward in the programmatic speech. I would just like to focus on four aspects which are particularly relevant to us. The first is his called anchor to the truth. Any serious and potentially capable government action to change the country must start from the fact of reality, he told us also in the reply, which must be constantly kept in mind by those who govern and loyally communicated to the citizens. Blandishing the crowds, seeking shortcuts in these times of difficult choices is irresponsible, and it is good that this Government declares programmatically that it wants to keep away from it. Secondly, we have appreciated the serious anchoring to Europe of all the policies that have shown us: not in a general way, nor with a perspective of subordination, but with the seriousness of those who recognize themselves as interdependent and want to be regarded as an authoritative protagonist. You are in continuity with the work carried out over the last 16 months by the Government chaired by Senator Monti, to whom our deep gratitude goes, which has laid the conditions for Italy to play its full role today. But, even more, you have placed the European commitment in the perspective of the creation of the United States of Europe, a great political and cultural objective, to which our country must strive, faithful to its history and for the sake of democracy. Europe is neither a stepmother nor a caregiver, but it is the common home in which to build the future of growth and peace in our country. The third point concerns openness to the new generations and attention to the territory. The way in which you, Mr President, presented the prospects for growth seems convincing to us, because you correctly identify the subjects on which to bet; provided - we have to say it clearly - that you have the courage to address the structural problems that have so far not allowed these resources to be exploited. The country has not grown in recent years because it has not known and wanted to change, and this responsibility today is attributed without discounts to the entire ruling class. This government, which starts with broad political and parliamentary support, has the courage to continue along the path of reforms undertaken in the past months, and indeed accelerates decisively. Only through structural reforms can we recover those resources that are essential to launch the powerful strategic investment plan that you have outlined in the various areas, particularly from the world of business and work. The great emergency that you have reminded us this morning must commit us to being courageous: we, all together, of course, do not just ask your Government. This government is born of an objective weakness: the forces that make up it did not win the elections and did not choose to be together. Yet this weakness, that weakness of David against Goliath, which she recalled yesterday, can be transformed into an element of strength, provided that everyone understands that reforms are made together. Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we appreciate and consider your willingness to look at the country, not just at its political representation, strategically. You will not only have to reform, break established schemes, remove improper incomes, but explain to the citizens these reforms, make them aware, involved, co-responsibility. You will have to activate, reactivate the desire to bet of the country: young people, families, entrepreneurs and employees, each for his part, today want to feel inserted in a new path of growth, development. After the technical government, which has fully accomplished its task, taking us out of the serious economic risks, today it is up to you, President, with the strong support of the Civic Choice Group for Italy - and I hope of all the other political forces of the majority - to reactivate the entire Italian society. Associations, social organizations, enterprises: Italian civicism, in its different forms, is awaiting a signal today. I am sure that the Government you have chaired, to which I wish you all the best, will not drop this opportunity for the common good of the country. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u92	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, as I said earlier, I would ask you for a minute on a point of order, in anticipation of my speech. In the wake of our call to respect the rules, we intend to stigmatize the use of a generic and misleading formula for the formulation of the motion that we are going to vote on. Article 94 of the Constitution states that each House grants or revokes trust by reasoned motion. Similarly, according to Rule 161 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, the motion of trust and the motion of distrust of the Government must be justified. Nevertheless, the requirement of motivation in the context of the trust procedure has been replaced by a mere reference to the programmatic statements read by the President of the Council of Ministers. This practice, which is for us a vulnus of both constitutional and regulatory order, should be condemned, especially by those who claim that Parliament must once again be central. The explanatory statement requires Parliament to have political reasons which, apart from the statements made by the President of the Council of Ministers, would help to clearly determine the nature and policy of the Government, given the trust relationship that is being established. I would therefore urge you, Mr President, to request the signatories of the motion to reword it with the reasons set out above. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I now come to my explanation of vote. Dear President, Senators, today we are deciding whether to acknowledge to the President of the Council and the Government our trust and that of the citizens who have chosen the 5 Star Movement as the spokesperson for the urgent demands of the country. For decades a cry of sorrow has gone up from citizens and families, workers and businesses, unemployed young people, pensioners and exodus, ignored only by the deafness of political forces. The President of the Republic recalled this in the passages of his speech that, in a Kafkian, distressing and surreal way, you yourselves hypocritically applauded. The sense of the electoral mandate we have received is here: in the conviction of the citizens that the current political system does not want and cannot evolve spontaneously, rather resists the pressures of civil society that, removed from political institutions, has come to conceive them as exclusive circles or even fortified palaces. In spite of this we have not come for an absolute and radical opposition; we are by nature and by choice a proactive movement, we have demonstrated this and we will give more. The necessary protest about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the failure to initiate the Permanent Commissions has not prevented us from contributing constructively to the work of the Special Plenipotentiaries Commissions; Improper commissions by their nature and even more so because of the conflict of powers, as the Presidents of these Commissions were also called as essays to outline a programmatic line for the Government, while in the Special Commissions they played roles of responsibility, control and guarantee. It has been preferred to block the action of Members of Parliament while waiting for the conditions to ripen for the announced marriage we are witnessing today to take place. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Despite this, however, we agreed to contribute in the Special Commission to an already insufficient decree for the payment of public administration debts to enterprises, although we had proposals for legislation of a very different scope to be made in the Permanent Commissions: for the total release of the above payments; for the gradual abolition of IRAP by 2014; for the extension to all companies of the so-called payment of VAT by cash. These proposals are studied and built in collaboration with local realities and trade associations and therefore with those who build the real economy daily, and not with those who turn it to the interests of finance. Whatever the government, even in extension, these measures could already be defined but, while we pointed to the moon, the parties looked at the finger, distracted to define the balances of power, neglecting prerogatives and legislative duties. We have therefore combined coherence and realism, firmness and dialogue, even to the point of not excluding the birth of a Government, not already our flag, but super partes, "super" by technical standing and real autonomy from the established powers, able to bring what needs now more than ever to politics and the country. With this same attentive spirit and no preconception at all, let us consider today what can be given in terms of confidence, although the picture is - ahinoi - deficit. The country is involuted under the stylicide of unfair laws, which have increased impunity, fractured cohesion, opened the scissors between rich and poor, between economy and finance, between rights and duties, weakening the pilot flame of school, research, the entrepreneurial fabric, the protection of common goods, the weak, and with these the principle of the sovereignty of the people. The party system is as responsible as the outgoing governments for this systematic development. With this awareness, Mr President, we have approached the consultations that, for the first time in history, citizens have been able to see and evaluate live, and we are proud of that. You seemed convinced of your role, you saw it, as if yours were an indispensable proposal for us. His fervor was equal to our disenchantment for the parable, by no chance, which led to his mandate and the predictable appearance of the nascent Government, dictated explicitly by the President of the Republic and the interested statements of the party notables. For the umpteenth time we would have wanted to be denied. For the umpteenth time the inertial power that is leading the country to decline has been confirmed. We have seen two governments fail, both with very large majorities, and with pervicacious logic we have excluded a government, even if it is a minority, innovative and super partes. It needed a step back from the parties, worn out by the internal struggles and not a rush in the room of the buttons. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We have had to vote with a repugnant electoral law and now, as damage and mockery, we see united and embraced precisely the parties and politicians who have systematically eluded electoral reform for fateful calculation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The change, a clear demand emerged from the vote and universally recognized by all the analyses, has been flagrant to us in previous consultations and renewed by her a few days ago in words, unfamiliar in the facts. Perhaps the change was limited to taking the stadiums out of the historic centers: I hope this is not the case. In fact, she asked us to change, to thaw us. We awaited it on the facts and the first actions confirm the rigidity of the political system, hibernated in the preservation of the status quo. We call on you and the political class you represent to unfreeze. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] At the posts of responsibility of his Government we still find commanders and ouromi of the Governments shipwrecked in 2011 and 2012. We also find new ministers in key areas, but not all with specific competences, some from the unlikely curriculum, if party militancy is excluded. The program is at least random and is likely to be hostage to cross vetoes and haggling parties, each seeking to win a success of Pirro to spread on the media. On the other hand, double personal ends shine behind the media curtains, no clear position on Silvio Berlusconi's ineligibility and the conflict of interest. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So we will not give our trust, for it commits those who grant it far more than those who gather it. Our proposal for a method has not been accepted. We will now discuss the contents and on these, despite everything, will always find us responsible, for the value we give to this term. Two points on all of us allow ourselves to impose on his attention: the first is income support, first of all with the establishment of a citizenship income. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This request comes from so many political forces and it is hardly worth mentioning that in all the European nations there are similar instruments, with very few, not enviable exceptions. Do the European institutions recommend that we take these measures, or is Europe only authoritative when it asks and demands? They are measures that can replace other social shock absorbers, and therefore with a lower net burden on the budget, that re-launch consumption and with them the economy and the tax revenues virtuous. It is a measure whose effects themselves reduce its real cost. The second is a Marshall Plan for small and medium-sized enterprises, which focuses on: bureaucratic simplification, tax reform, detaxation of investment and research, shift of investment from large unnecessary works to a micro-project plan for the benefit of craft enterprises, a reduction in time for civil and criminal justice, which have economic costs equal to several points of GDP. In conclusion, Mr President, we note, however, that a new political subject is being born, which upsets the electoral outcome and disregards the vote expressed by the citizens, based on the coalitions declared in the electoral campaign. The expression of this unique model is precisely this Government, to which the 5 Star Movement strongly opposes, assuming the role of opposition. On the other hand, we must stress a disturbing statement, which we have heard, namely the establishment of a so-called convention. It is proposed to restore centrality to Parliament, but at the same time the possibility of giving life to the physiological debate - as you yourself call it - which is characterized almost by a negative meaning is avoided. Since the first days, following the entry into these rooms of the 5 Star Movement, and therefore of citizens, models are proposed to delegitimize the only political presence within those rooms that plays a role of opposition to the single model, first with the so-called wise and now with this convention, whose presidency has been claimed even by Silvio Berlusconi: on this no comment is sufficient to describe our indignation. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]] Objections that we will, however, exercise with responsibility and purpose. We have just entered into the mechanisms of this electoral machine and we can be oil or sand in these mechanisms. We will be oil whenever actions are aimed at collective interest, we will be sand in the gears whenever interests prevail. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u95	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the programme you have just presented deserves appreciation and respect, not only because it includes most of the commitments that Silvio Berlusconi and all of us in the People of Freedom have signed with our voters - which are 10 million - but above all because it shows that our Italy has the strength to rise up and to find again, even in the most difficult moments, the ability to respond to the crisis, to break down social inequalities, to offer a hope and perspective to those many young people seeking employment and the dignity that only work can give. The new government's programme deserves our confidence especially because, at a time when the worst moods of the square seemed to prevail, it was able to restore - and I repeat it with force and pride - the primacy of politics and responsibility. I am talking about high politics, the one that prompted Giorgio Napolitano to accept the heavy responsibility of the second mandate and that, at the same time, prompted Silvio Berlusconi to look only and exclusively at the good of the country [[Applause from the PdL Group]] , not to reply to the insults of the demagoguery and the provocateurs, and not to be seduced by polls, which in a possible recourse to the ballot boxes would certainly give us winners. You, Mr President, know how tenaciously, how humbly and patiently we have woven the canvas that has led to the formation of the new Government, in order to protect Italy from the crisis we are experiencing. You, Mr President, also know the renunciations that we have accepted because of a sense of responsibility, such as those relating to our delegation. On the prospect of a generational replacement, we were asked to exclude some very prominent members, and we, out of a sense of responsibility, avoided an unnecessary flag battle. Today we are proud of the Ministers who support you, dear President: they have all the enthusiasm, political passion, moral rigour and energy that the new challenges require. But allow me to address a thought of affection and gratitude to those who, rich in as much passion and experience, have taken a step back without clamor, while remaining an essential patrimony of our political strength. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] We have responded with exceptional commitment to an equally exceptional situation. Let us not waste it, Mr President: we must make full use of this extraordinary condition to turn the page and bring Italy out of a situation of ungovernability and permanent political opposition. The policy lines of his government contain all the premises for undertaking the path of growth and development, for finally modernising the state, after thirty years of promises and disappointments, and to restore, especially with a lightening of the tax burden, the pact of confidence between citizens and politics. We need a strict, but more humane, less aggressive and more understanding tax system of the state of the crisis in our society. The number of suicides for economic reasons over the last year has increased by 30%, Mr President: it is a fact that we cannot and must not ignore. In his speech he referred to the United States of Europe. We will be with your Government every time you fight for a Europe of peoples, and not for chancellors, for solidarity and not for the defence of the interests of the individual stronger states, which have brought financial policies of rigour and recession. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] We must do this with strength and conviction, as founders of the European Union. As far as I am concerned, on the solemnity of this moment, I would like to share with you the urgency of an intervention - to which you referred yesterday to the House and which is very close to my heart - finally decided, and to be decisive, in order to bring back the condition of our prisons within the borders of civilization and law. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]] As President of the Senate, I have had the opportunity to personally verify distresses and tribulations in which the vast majority of prisoners are forced to live, a condition that dramatically reflects the fragility, incongruity and distortion of our judicial system, a judicial system, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, long, far-reaching, unbalanced in the relationship between prosecution and defence and - let me say this - and I do so with a sense of responsibility and anguish - open to every incursion by those who do not hesitate to turn an investigation into a pillage, with the constant and smug violation of every secret investigation relating to privacy. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] This is not the legal civilization that our Constituents have wished to reserve for us and the children of our children. We must safeguard the dignity of man in every step, and at the same time show strength and determination against mafias and terrorism. The People of Liberty on the anti-Mafia front have traced irreversible paths: the stabilisation of 41- bis in 2002, which I strongly supported when I was the Leader of my party, and its subsequent tightening up with Minister Alfano; the capture of numerous fugitives; new provisions on asset seizures. The latter were made even more severe by the Senate, when I presided over him and was examining the security package Alfano-Maroni and I assumed the commitment, at the Feast of the Police of my city, that the Senate was ready to tighten those eventual sanctions and measures. On that occasion I had the opportunity to consult me in a confidential and institutional way with those who today hold the second office of the State to have a support, a suggestion. We did so in the institutional reserve to which we were bound, and in our cooperation we did everything we could to ensure that this package was further tightened up and sanctioned. Of this I publicly pay tribute today and thank President Grasso for that intervention acquitted with a sense of responsibility and great competence. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senators Scalia and Saggese]] Mr. President Letta, all these rules I have spoken of bear a signature, a footprint, which I am proud to recall: that of Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] A leader who, with the foresight proper to the man of State, has allowed and allows Italy today to rediscover the main road of solidarity, governance and pacification, putting the culture of the common good before the culture of hatred. We are proud of this and thank him. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] We, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, intend to take this path with determination, but with equal loyalty, close to our President to whom we have always assured and will ensure our strongest support, just as we assure and assure you of our loyal support as long as he maintains the line set out in his speech, in which we believe. Good work, Mr. President! [[Applause from Senator Olivero.Congratulations. The Senators of the Pdl Group stand and applaud.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u98	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Senators of the Democratic Party, with their speeches in general, have illustrated the position of our Group on its programme, of which we share the content, the ambitious objectives, the realistic analysis on which it is based, and in which, above all, we have felt a strong awareness of the depth and extent of the crisis and the consequent need to address all its aspects overall. A government that wants to reverse the spiral of mistrust and set lasting solutions to the evils of the country must find the strength to face simultaneously the control of public finances, the urgency of growth and the absolute priority of social justice, the fight against poverty and unemployment, support for families. From your happy name, 'Government of service', comes the great expectation that you have just pointed out, dear President. Service to Italy, service to social peace, tenacity and commitment of entrepreneurs and workers; service to all those who have a right to make it; service to the talents of our young people and our women, who are really the safest investment for our well-being and future generations. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bonfrisco.]] The time of rigour alone and austerity alone is over. After weeks full of mistakes, the political forces in Parliament, those who will vote for the trust and those who will oppose it, from today on they finally have the opportunity to show that they have understood that they must guarantee the Italians a more serene climate that takes into account the seriousness of the crisis. In the history of our Republic it has already happened that public men with general interests have been able to find the right words to help the country overcome the uncertainties, errors and inadequacy of the parties, the political system and of Parliament itself. This also happened when, in the face of general distrust and pessimism, President Giorgio Napolitano was able, in harsh words, to find a political solution able to overcome the stalemate that blocked Parliament for two months, preventing the birth of a government. So the thanks we owe to the President is not just in a way. His taking charge of a tiring second mandate exposed, mercilessly, all the political difficulties of the result of the elections of February 25, so strongly conditioned by an electoral law that, among the many damages, has also produced different majorities in the House and the Senate. From all this, from the re-election of Giorgio Napolitano and from his extraordinary speech to the Chambers gathered, from the intelligent work of Enrico Letta and from the decisions of the parties, was born the Government that in a few minutes will have the confidence of the senators of the Democratic Party. Faced with the flowering of the most varied denominations that preceded its birth, the Head of State invited us not to look for special formulas. He recalled that it was a political government, born of a political understanding between the parliamentary forces that could guarantee the confidence of the two chambers. The President is right. All governments, including that of Senator Monti, which I greet with great esteem, composed only of technical ministers, are political. Before I say a few words about the majority supporting the Government, I would like to stress two elements which I think are very special. The attention with which President Letta was able to proceed to the composition of his Government was greatly appreciated, bringing together profoundly different political components, skills, experiences, novelties and young people. But in your government there is something more than the individual, prestigious personalities of the Ministers. There is the result of a clear will to form a team, capable of working in a coordinated, cohesive, integrated way, without watertight compartments, without battles of skills, without exasperating the differences that exist and that remain, without ever losing sight of the total needs. Minister Josefa Idem can teach us how collective work is, not only in sport, but also in politics, the best formula for success. An orchestra sounds good if all the instruments get along, which is only possible with a great deal of personal effort from the conductor, Mr President. This Government is born in a state of grave danger in our Republic, from a state of necessity. In a nutshell, it is born, I emphasize it from the need to save Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Carraro]] Our country continues to be in a fierce, ruthless crisis that never seems to end. The first quarter of this year saw signs of recovery in the United States and emerging economies, but the euro area and Italy unfortunately continue to move against the trend. Compared to 2007, in just six years, the Italian economy has served a fall in the ability to produce wealth of more than 8 points, while the most rosy expectations for next year forecast a recovery in growth of 1.3%, little more than a faint relief if we take into account the collapse of the past years. The difficulties of workers and businesses are the tragic effect of this crisis. The total number of unemployed and discouraged workers, i.e. inactive people who have stopped looking for work in the last month, today counts 6 million Italians. It is in this state of social despair that the reason for the tragedy must be sought, until the madness unfortunately of many Italians. We cannot and must not leave them alone and we can only do so by guaranteeing Italy more work and more social justice. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The danger we are running is that of a slow and inexorable decline, which can come to overwhelm everything. The reasons that drive us today, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to vote for the confidence of your Government and to support it with conviction are all in the awareness of this danger. It is no longer possible, in any field, - said President Napolitano - to subtract to the duty of the proposal, to the search for a viable solution, to the clear and timely decision for the reforms that need to be continued in order to survive and progress democracy and Italian society. That's why the Democratic Party refused to consider the path of new early elections that nothing would change. A great party like the Democratic Party cannot allow Italy to get lost in adventure. Mr President, the contribution that the Senators of the Democratic Party, proud of their identity, will be able to assure your Government will be of constant, loyal support. We intend to do our part to the end, knowing that it is our duty to build a clear and dialectical relationship with the forces of the centre-right, with which we exceptionally share the support of its Government, a support of serious cooperation, but also of constructive competition in ideas and proposals, for European policies, for the reform of the state and for the equitable overcoming of the crisis. It is therefore a state of necessity that has led to living together in a clear majority of Government ideal horizons and different and even opposite political convictions on the responsibilities of the last twenty years of the parliamentary and political history of our country. Some have argued that the political phase we live in would remember the years of national solidarity. It is true that the differences that remain between those years and those that we live today are profound. National solidarity was prepared in twenty years of cultural dialogue, in twenty years of approximation, in twenty years of patient political work. Your Government, Mr President, is instead the son of the exceptionality of the moment we live, of the crisis that plagues Italy. Recognizing how similar the two phases approach and how very different it makes them unique and distant, seems essential to us today. The deep differences between left and right centre remain the same as yesterday. This vote of confidence does not erase - and does not intend to erase - the political and not just political responsibilities of all of us and of each of us. Just as this vote of confidence will not lead us to lower our guard over what is dearest to us and constitutes the very identity of the Democrats: constitutional patriotism, legality, the defence of good politics, the rule of law, the separation of powers and policies for social justice, the rigour of conflicts between the general interest and particular interests. But now, for the good of Italy as a whole, we are being asked for that unity of the nation which is one of those supreme principles of our Constitutional Charter which is not given to anyone to change. I too, at the end of this speech, want to recall the extraordinary relevance of the thought of a great Italian, Aldo Moro, who admonished Italy as follows: This country will not be saved, the season of rights and freedoms will prove ephemeral, if in Italy a new sense of duty will not be born. These are words that we should remember. [[Applause from the PD, PDL and LAG groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u99	In reply to Senator Crimi's point of order, it is clear that, by inveterate practice, the motion of confidence is based on the premise: Hear the statements of the Government in which the reasons required by the second paragraph of Article 94 of the Constitution and Article 161 (1) of the Rules of the Senate are resolved. As you yourself, Senator Crimi, have anticipated, this is a so-called formula for relationem, which makes the reasons naturally coincide with the policy points outlined by the President-in-Office of the Council. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u100	Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, first paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote with appeal to Government No. 30, presented by Senators Zanda, Schifani, Susta, Ferrara Mario and Zeller. No advance voting will be accepted except for documented, serious and exceptional circumstances. I would remind you that every senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote under the Presidency. The senators in favour of the trusted motion will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will respond accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom he will begin to call her. (The name of Senator Ranucci is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Ranucci. If you leave some room at the centre, those who have to vote can do so more easily. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . The Senator Secretary of Giorgi and, later, Senator Secretary Mussolini make the appeal. (In the course of voting operations, the Presidency shall take the place of - at 1.15 p.m. - at 1.15 p.m., and - 13,49 p.m. -). Yes, the senators answer: Aiello, Albano, Alberti Casellati, Albertini, Alicata, Amato, Amoruso, Angioni, Aracri, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Barani, Berger, Berlusconi, Bernini, Bianco, Bianconi, Bilardi, Bocca, Bondi, Bonfrisco, Borioli, Broglia, Bruni, Bruno, Bubbico Caleo, Caliendo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinali, Carinali, Carinali, Carinali, Carinari, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Ceroni, Chiavaroli, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colombo, Colucci, Compagna, Compagnone, Conti, Corsini, De Monte Escini, De Poliano, D'Alì, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, D'Ascola, De Bia, De Biasini, De Monte Esini, De Silano, Cuo, Cuo, Cuo, Cuo, Cuo, Cuo, Cuo, Cuo, D' The senators: Airola, Anitori Battista, Bencini, Bertorotta, Bignami, Blundo, Bocchino, Bottici, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Campanella, Cappelletti, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Cotti, Crimi De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pietro, De Pin, Donno Endrizzi Fattori, Fucksia Gaetti, Gambaro, Giarrusso, Girotto Lezzi, Lucidi Martelli, Marton, Mastrangeli, Molinari, Montevecchi, Moronese, Morra, Mussini Nugnes Orellana Paglini, Pepe, Petraglia, Petrocelli, Puglia Romani Maurizio Santangelo, Scibona, Serra, Simeoni, Stefano Taverna Uras Vacciano. The senators abstain: Arrigoni Bellot, Bisinella, Bitonci Calderoli, Candiani, Centinario, Comaroli, Council, Crosio Davico, Divina Garavaglia Munerato Stefani, Stucchi Tremonti Volpi. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u101	I declare the result of the roll-call vote with appeal on the trusted motion No. 30, tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani, Susta, Ferrara Mario and Zeller: [[Senators present 311 Senators voting 310 Majority 156 Favorable 233 Contrari 59 Absent 18]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, GAL and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u102	The next item is the report by the Minister for the Interior on the injury of two carabinieri in front of Palazzo Chigi on 28 April 2013. I call the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the news of the tragic criminal act that took place on 28 April in front of Palazzo Chigi, the Government felt it was its duty to give immediate readiness to report to Parliament every piece of information on this incident which has shaken public opinion strongly, also because of its symbolic connection with the inauguration ceremony of the new Executive. Allow me first of all to reiterate the particular closeness of all the Government and my staff to the Arm of the Carabinieri, already hit hard at Maddaloni, the two seriously wounded military and their family members. [[Applause]] The fact that the episode on Sunday ended up involving unarmed citizens, making them live, despite them, moments of intense drama and real panic, leaves a sign of wound that loves even more. I now come to the reconstruction of the facts, not without saying that, on the occasion of the Government's oath and in view of the move of the Ministers from the Quirinale to Palazzo Chigi, the security devices along the way and in the proximity of the institutional fora concerned, as is the practice under such circumstances, had been strengthened. In particular, the device included the prohibition of crossing Piazza Colonna, so that a safe space was guaranteed for the new Ministers to enter Palazzo Chigi. Around 11.30 am in the same square, at the height of Via dell'Impresa, an individual pulled out a small-caliber gun exploding seven blows towards the brigadiere Giuseppe Giangrande and towards the chosen carabiniere Francesco Negri, both assigned to the 6th Carabinieri Battalion Tuscany and engaged in public order service. The first, wounded in the neck, was immediately transported to the Umberto I Hospital, where it is still in reserved prognosis; the second, wounded in the legs, was hospitalized at St. John's Hospital and is not in danger of life. The bomber, who was blocked by the police without recourse to arms, responds to the name of Luigi Preiti, who arrived in Rome by train from Cosenza in the late evening of the day before the attack. The Preiti has never been involved in subversive contexts, has no criminal precedent and it never appears to have been reported to the database of the Police Forces, as attests also the negative outcome of an ordinary control of the Railway Police, carried out just on the occasion of his trip to Rome. The first investigations also revealed that he is an unemployed person, with a rather difficult economic and family situation and with possible problems of ludopathy. It is in this complex lived that the reasons for the reckless gesture are likely to be sought, as the parents of the Preiti also seem to confirm, who reiterated the condition of discomfort of the son, who for some time manifested signs of an exasperated intolerance towards the institutions and the political world. In fact, during the interrogation, the bomber stated that his intention was precisely to take violent action against a political exponent and then commit suicide, which he would not be able to do having been promptly blocked and unarmed. It appears at the time that he acted without receiving any kind of support, which reinforces the investigative hypothesis, which immediately appeared, however, that it was an isolated gesture. However, further investigations are under way, with particular regard to the origin of the weapon, whose freshman is abraded. In this episode, due to the same circumstances in which it has matured, we cannot and must not read the prodromes of outbreaks of the square or of subversive tensions that could compromise the maintenance of public order and security, which still remains firm and for which I feel to reassure the public. However, it is necessary to keep the guard high, in order to prevent possible attempts to exploit the discomfort and avoid emulatory gestures by those who could be induced to follow this blood trail, driven by resentment and social resentment. The call for moderation and a sense of responsibility, which has emerged from many quarters in these hours, must therefore be fully shared in the spirit of solidarity and cohesion called upon by the President of the Council, Enrico Letta, in his speech to Parliament on the occasion of the vote of confidence. The serenity of the country is a good that belongs to all and that we are all called to defend, in full consciousness that the social and civil balance, in times of crisis, has the end sensitivity of a crystal. Although I was aware of the conditions of unpredictability which, as I said, characterized the attack on Sunday, I immediately shared the first measures with which it was Prudently disposed to intensify the activity of prevention and control of the territory, as well as to monitor the sensitive objectives. In feeling all the delicacy of this particular moment, I would like to stress the need for the most fruitful dialogue between the Government and Parliament on security issues, confirming my full willingness to report to the Chambers whenever the situation requires it. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, LN-Aut, GAL and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u104	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Vice President of the Council of Ministers and Minister of the Interior. Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u105	Mr President, Minister, Senators and Senators, it is with great emotion that I address to the wounded Giuseppe Giangrande and Francesco Negri, to their loved ones and colleagues, together with the best wishes for a speedy recovery, total solidarity and above all the concrete commitment for them and for all the women and men engaged every day to guarantee the safety of the citizens of our country, often in precarious conditions, with scarce resources and inadequate means, in difficult territories, including that of our Capital, in which I honour to have been born and have always lived, which in recent years has seen degenerate forms of violence and continuous and disturbing crime and whose metropolitan area sees the presence of all the greatest criminal organizations operating tragically, with heinous criminal acts and murders, our times. We must place our commitment within this framework. The dramatic situation of the country imposes on everyone, in the different political characteristics, a shot of capacity and awareness of the fact that we move in unknown territory, where the answers are not in anyone's pockets. The tragic gesture, albeit operated - it would seem - with individual responsibility, assumes, for the conjunction with the oath of the Government and in a framework of deep and extended discomfort that has no precedent in our country since the Second World War, a very worrying significance for the risk - as has been said - imitative. But even worse if politics, even in the face of such a drama, staged an unupbuilding spectacle of mutual accusations, of exploitations, of irresponsibility: it would be the end. Woe indeed, while clearly respecting different fundamental choices, if the parties, the political forces, the unions, the movements were not recognized in the common choice of democracy, of non-violence, in respect of the opponent and his rights. A few minutes ago, this House gave confidence to a large majority government made up of forces with opposite orientation. We in the Left Ecology and Freedom have voted against and will carry out a careful, concrete, intransigent opposition - yes, intransigent - in seeking solutions to the discomfort of a country that has seen poverty grow and, paradoxically, unbearable inequalities. In these moments, mutual recognition of the differences in roles, that of government and that of opposition, is fundamental, which also contribute to the democratic and civil holding of a tried country. I feel risks of unique thinking, of reducing dissent to irresponsibility. We will try, with our limited strength, to give voice and proposals for a solution to the social drama that affects more and more women and men, young people and the elderly. This contrasts a dark phenomenon of this society, a mythomania spread by the imperative of appearance, to air at all costs to exist, to prove it to oneself, to its own microcosm, as well as to the global village. The discouragement in front of the loneliness that strikes large social bodies, fundamental categories, in fact become invisible today. The work, the lack of it and the lack of quality and dignity produce despair. Therefore, dissent, opposition, is the other fundamental pillar of democracy, and Italian history shows, even recently, that it is often the fundamental element in overcoming the criminal and violent forces that with different ideologies have always represented the most effective weapons to stop movements, demands for change and progress. Not only in the years of lead: this was also the case on 15 October 2011, where the savage attacks of the black blocs in addition to destroying pieces of our city hurled against the forces of law and against militants of the Movement, decreed the end. We want to help remove that venomous water from the sea of the crisis and introduce clean water that can offer concrete hope of change. And therefore, in the face of such rampant liberalism, which I consider absolutely harmful, we rediscover instead a common liberal feeling based on the choice of non-violence that, like Left Ecology and Freedom, we have as a fundamental element in our DNA. A liberalism, therefore, that does not mean denying the conflict, the confrontation of rigorous and consistent ideas and behaviors. We take on this serious commitment by renewing it today in this House, respecting the victims of violence, all of them, and all of them will always see the women and men of Left Ecology and Freedom at their side. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u106	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u107	Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Council, the Great Autonomous Groups and Freedoms have appreciated the sensitivity and urgency with which the Government has come to report to Parliament the information and the reconstruction of the facts of which it is currently in possession. We certainly make our own, as a group, the greatest solidarity with the Carabinieri's weapon. It also struck us as the sobriety of biographical reconstruction of the great protagonist on Sunday morning leaves uncertain and indecipherable points. In vain one has been practicing sociologically for a few days to fill them. If there is a senatorial group particularly sensitive to this drama of failure and uprooting, from Rosarno in Calabria to Alexandria in Piedmont and back, this is the Great Autonomous Group and Freedom and perhaps the approach to ludopathy can find understanding there but not for this reason no justification. Our sensitivity regards the southern issue as a major national issue. And we could not - we would betray ourselves - feel closer to the uprooted hero who meditates violent action against any political exponent, purchexia, and then commit suicide. All this deserves neither disquisition nor argument nor sociological justification. Angelo Panebianco is right that this morning on the "Corriere della Sera" wrote that we would all feel more reassured by the hypothesis of madness or uprooting from anguish and economic depression than by the hypothesis of seeing the path of terrorism resurface. Of course, Mr Vice-President of the Council, your remarks go in this direction and we appreciate them for their sobriety. Precisely for this reason, we refuse to participate in any ping pong, or even worse, tennis, pseudo-political television journalist, in which we discuss how much consensus can have those who meditate on violent action against a political exponent purchexia, and then commit suicide. It suffices to know that he did not have the consent of those two heroic fellow citizens, Negri and Giangrande, who opposed the design to be realized, and opposed each other with the utmost respect for the honour of their uniform and their country. They have not at all bothered to bring down the criminal, as probably sometimes, in other conceptions of republican legality, it has also happened. From all this the utmost consent and appreciation for the communications that made the government today in the Senate. [[Applause from the LAG, PdL and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u108	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u109	Mr President, I would like to thank the new Minister for the Interior, whom I would like to begin by congratulating and wishing him well, a work which we hope, as the Lega Nord Group, will remain in line with that line which his political predecessor Roberto Maroni had drawn. Thank you also for the diligence with which you, Minister, went to this House and to the House to report on what happened. The Lega Nord Group can assure you, Minister, that it has questioned what has happened, trying to analyze the potential reasons why this crazy gesture has been made, the causes that have led an apparently normal man to endanger the lives of two carabinieri. We also wondered about the effects this man expected to have on such an attitude. The economic crisis, the social discomfort, the loss of work, the loss of affection, the dependence on the game, the declared aversion to politicians; someone ventured into wanting to enter the dark side of the human mind. It has been written and read a bit of everything in these two days: approaches to the attacks on Togliatti and Aldo Moro. But of one thing we are certain and I am sure, Minister: a man premeditated and committed a criminal act by hitting two servants of the State, two carabinieri who carried out their work. Their motto reads: faithful for centuries at the cost of life. Well, Minister, that's what the two Carabinieri risked. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PdL, M5S Groups.]] "I hope in a better world, in a world of peace": these are the words of the daughter of the brigadier Giuseppe Giangrande, Martina, 23 years old. Few words that synthesize his state of mind. The shiny eyes, the pride of a daughter, of a young girl just tried even by the disappearance of her mother, wonderful in saying: I'm proud and proud of my father. The words of this young woman, Minister, were so composured that they were probably the only ones that dampened the tones, sometimes lit up and broken down. Minister, we must soften our tones because we must pay great attention to the gesture of Luigi Preiti, an attention that must lead to a minimum of the risk of a dramatic emulation effect. Man is not an unbalanced man and is not even linked to organized crime: he is just a desperate man who has been guilty of an absurd and intolerable crime. I saw a uniform, it represented the institutions for me and I shot it: this is his statement. You saw a uniform and you should have been excited, Minister. He saw a uniform and should have respected it; he saw a uniform and should have seen an honest worker, a life put to the test every day, at every procession, at every manifestation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and PdL Groups]] ; a uniform that too many times was attacked and fatally wounded, and she remembered what happened to Maddaloni. Instead, he saw a uniform and poured all his anger on it; he saw a uniform and two gems, two servants of the State are in hospital, one with serious injuries. Someone has also dared to say that it was better for him to shoot a politician: terrible nonsense, dangerous nonsense, Minister. There is no justification for what happened, there is only to be condemned decisively and unequivocally. If the principle is passed that the streets and these events can subvert the democratically expressed popular vote, we would be faced with the death of democracy itself. The two Carabinieri risked their lives to carry out their mission, to ensure security and in this case the security of us politicians. And so, Mr Minister, if this is the case, it is right and it is mandatory for us to ask the political class, as we have done in our Group, about what has happened, the reasons and the causes, and it is precisely on the causes that a strong commitment is needed to remove this discomfort, this discomfort. At a historic moment of social tensions such as the one we have been through, however, we cannot ignore anything and I believe that each of us must deal with our own consciences, especially when we make statements and scream in the squares. The words are stones, Mr President, and they are even more so in these economically and politically very complex times. "Bombardiamo il Parola" (Bombardi Parliament), "You are surrounded," shouted at the coup at the time of the election of President Napolitano, someone also said that what happened was to be attributed to the ills of the palace. Let us reflect, Mr President, and think even more carefully about those who at this time have exacerbated an already extremely complicated political and social climate of confrontation. Let us reflect, for what is a fertile ground for violence. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u110	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u111	Mr President, I would like to add a few words to the debate on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to thank Vice-President Alfano for his information, to wish him, of course, good work, but also to express our solidarity with the families of the wounded carabinieri, for whom we hope that everything will be best resolved, and with the entire Carabinieri weapon. I would like to point out, in order to take note of this, that what has happened is very serious but also comes from the situation of uncertainty and instability that we have unfortunately experienced in recent months: two months have passed since the elections without the country having a government. I believe that what first important answers to this absolutely inconsultable gesture should be considered the formation of a new government and the message of trust and hope that President Letta and the entire team of the Executive left us this morning, an appeal to get along and find a sense of responsibility to govern this country to ensure its unity. I believe that this very large majority that the Government has today obtained is the first positive message to prevent events like what we experienced a few days ago from happening again. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u112	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank Mr Alfano, together with my Group, for providing this House with a detailed and clear report on the tragic events of last Sunday. Events whose gravity and symbolic charge have affected the entire country, bringing back to memory dramatic images that belong to our recent history, and from which we were convinced to be distant. Events like this, in my opinion, induce a sort of self-consciousness of an entire ruling class. I was deeply struck by the fact that, a few moments after the shooting, the bomber was labeled as an unbalanced person, as if he wanted to frame that event, so sudden and so incomprehensible, in a frame of madness, paradoxically in an attempt to rationalize it. It made me think, because in this simple connotation - mostly journalistic - hides the true symbolic charge of this gesture: the inability on the part of observers, be they journalists or politicians, to frame society in a real way, to understand its nuances. And perhaps only before an apparently insane gesture we can all return with our feet on the ground, and understand that behind that act there was not a speculator, an extremist, but a desperate: unfortunately, the landing point of a firm society within its economic and cultural limits, a flawed policy and a system with fragile foundations. Mine is not a provocation, but a point of observation, perhaps even a questionable one, which, however, must lead to a reasoning. Let us look for a moment on the protagonists of this affair: on the one hand the bomber, first insane, then desperate man; on the other the servant of the State, the Carabiniere, who once again represents our pride and to whom our sincere and renewed closeness goes. This is not the opposition between the state and the anti-state; it is the expression of a state that struggles to become aware of all its aspects; it struggles to manage the drifts that even a democratic system faces, due to a lasting and complex crisis. It leads to an amplifying of social confusion - especially where it already exists - and intolerance towards those realities which may cause it, such as politics and the forces that characterize it. This is therefore an invitation to reason, to correct and to improve; to dismiss the role of theatrical politics, the one entirely focused on appearance, of which unfortunately the footbridge at Umberto I - let me tell you - these days is still a showy trail. We are faced with a social tragedy, before which we must demand sobriety as the first step towards change. Politics is called to gain awareness and a unanimous capacity for action, because this is the indispensable basis for social balance as it is now. We must all leave together, ladies and gentlemen, in order to renew the social estate of our country. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u114	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u115	Mr President, Minister, the 5 Star Movement condemns without appeal the vile and unacceptable violence perpetrated on Sunday against two servants of the State, the Carabinieri Giuseppe Giangrande and Francesco Negri. Violence all the more serious and unjustifiable in that it was put in place against those who, in the performance of their duty, at that time was responsible for the defense of the democratic institutions of this country. The Movement intends to manifest its human and political closeness to the two wounded carabinieri, their families and all members of the police force. These women and men in uniform every day, in dignified silence, poorly paid and worse equipped, are still and always in our streets, among the citizens, to ensure the safety of all. These women and men, faithful servants of the State, with their lives, defending the institutions, defending our democracy and the free exercise of government activity as well as the free development of the opposition. [[Applause from the M5S and PdL Groups]] Because that's what we do in democracy. Those who are attentive to the lives of these women and men, of these servants of the State, attentive to our freedom, attentive to the freedom of all citizens, even those who protest and disagree, and who can do so civilly and freely precisely thanks to the commitment and professionalism demonstrated by our citizens in uniform. Because that's what we do in democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Who dares to speculate on the blood of our faithful servants of the State for purposes of low political polemic is a poor man, he is in bad faith. Those who dared to speculate on these serious facts to attack the 5 Star Movement did so in blatant bad faith. It is the same individual and it is the same groups that until a few days ago apostrophe the magistrates as criminals. Those who dared to speculate on the pain of our wounded carabinieri were the same ones who said a few days ago that we will fight in Parliament and in the squares, and it wasn't Grillo and it wasn't us, Mr President! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is the same character, accused by induction to the prostitution of a minor girl, who affirmed with great emphasis and verbal violence that within the judiciary there is a part that has formed a kind of criminal association! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PdL Group]] Shame! GIARRUSSO (M5S). These characters, who in their youth were singing to political violence, invoking for Italy a violent coup like that of Greece and who really assaulted Parliament together with their political associates and for these facts were inquisited for attack on the constitutional bodies, these same ones now morale us. Violence, ladies and gentlemen, does not belong to the history of the 5 Star Movement, which has always preached and practiced nonviolence, civil and peaceful resistance and has channeled the anger and despair of the citizens, tested by the moral, civil and political crisis in which our country pours, through the collection of signatures for referendums, through the collection of signatures for popular law initiatives and, last but not least, through participation in the political elections. The aim is to give the voice back to these citizens who in these classrooms, too long deaf and blind to their lamentations and legitimate calls for help, had no representation. Because that's what we do in democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In conclusion, I would just like to point out that we of the 5 Star Movement, precisely at those moments, were among the citizens who protested, invoking the name of Rodotà and certainly not throwing Molotov or branding iron bars; and we continued to do so throughout the day, avoiding that the protest could exorbitate from the civil and democratic track by fringes of extremists who had infiltrated.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u116	Please conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u117	GIARRUSSO (M5S). The Movement, in those spurious and convulsive moments, has assumed its responsibilities, placing itself where a political force like ours, democratic, civil, peaceful and opposition, between the citizens who protest and the citizens in uniform who watch, so that the protest could take place without risk for the safety of all. Because that's what we do in democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u118	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u119	Mr President, I would like to thank the Vice President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for the Interior for immediately reporting to Parliament on the serious events that have taken place in recent days, and I would like to thank the Minister for the defence for being here with him, just a few moments after the vote of confidence that makes them fully operational. I will not reply to some unfortunate statements which we have unfortunately just heard and which confirm our severe judgments on certain Movements and certain realities. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] Instead, I want to say, more calmly, that we expect the Government, and in particular the Ministers of Defence and the Interior, who are present here, in addition to having certainly the ritual, institutional exchanges with the leaders of the police and the Armed Forces (which have certainly already had, in starting their demanding and delicate activities, which will see us convinced and united supporters at all times, especially in this difficult and dramatic start), also meet the unions of the Police Forces, the COCER and the representative bodies: meet them and listen to them, also to understand the difficulties, in the operation, of those who need those resources that Parliament all together, and certainly the Government, will want to recognize. I was pleased that yesterday, in his speech, the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Letta, referred to the specific nature of the security and defence sector. This is a rule, which has been introduced in the previous legislature, thanks to the initiatives of the Government led by Silvio Berlusconi and I believe shared by the whole Parliament, or at least by a broad range. Therefore, we believe that answers should also be given in terms of economic and social treatment, the recognition of that specificity that makes these men and women targets, in Italy or abroad, in many circumstances, of madness or an anger that finds no justification or, in other contexts, far from homeland, of other dangers yet. We take note of the statements made by the Minister of the Interior regarding a public order under control and we believe that the right to manifest, in this country, is widely recognized, even in institutional places: but it is the preaching of hatred that must not be fed. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I believe, Minister, that even the apology of crimes made through the Network should not be more unpunished. I believe that even the extra writings, even in Rome, in front of some schools are a crime and an encouragement to violence, such as calling for marches, rifles, and waiting for politicians at home. There are politicians who make mistakes and provoke popular anger: they are identified and condemned through the law, but they do not become pretexts for unacceptable sociologisms, even when they come from those who confuse victims with executioners, using words that may have weighed differently, a few hours ago. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] We believe that the situation should certainly not be underestimated, that it should not be subjugated to certain tones and attitudes, and that the duty is to guarantee the right to opposition, dissent and demonstrations, even the liveliest and most colorful, which are the essence of democracy. Other things, however, are improper language and unacceptable attitudes that we are witnessing: I could read statements, phrases and messages, but that is not the case and there is no need to pour gasoline on the fire. We must support the responsible action of the Government on a sad day, because we all wait to know the outcome of the fate of Giuseppe Giangrande, we wait to know what the consequences will be, with the hope that it will be alive, and express solidarity to him, to Francesco Negri and to the family members of Tiziano Della Ratta. In a few minutes, in fact, I believe that Minister Mauro will represent the Government at the funeral of another carabiniere, victim in that case of crime, in Maddaloni. We have no doubt: we know which side we have to be on. I would also like to thank the Minister for the Interior because, as President Schifani said, when the laws on legality, against crime and the mafia were passed in this House, he was at the forefront of the matter. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] and will also be so in order to guarantee public order. We will always be on the side of those men and women in uniform who are a bastion of legality and we will not accept minimalisms or confusions. They have defended democracy: it is up to us to live up to that spirit of sacrifice, which we have once again appreciated and which we honour in this House. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Chiti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u120	He's enlisted to speak Senator Minniti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u121	Mr President, I too would like to thank the Minister of the Interior for his promptness and since it is certainly the first time that he has come to Parliament in his new role, let me wish him well, even if we would have preferred to do so in a different situation. It also allows me, on behalf of my party and the Group of the Democratic Party, to express solidarity and closeness to the Carabinieri weapon and to the families of the Carabinieri Giangrande and Negri. We look with anguish at the health of the Brigadier Giangrande and hope that everything can be resolved positively. However, I think it is the duty of this House to say that the best way to remember the sacrifice that the Carabinieri have made in recent years, in these months and in these hours is to convey a unique and united message. We remember the Arm of the Carabinieri and the Police Forces even when it comes to discussing their living conditions; we remember the Arm of the Carabinieri and the Police Forces when we must be close to those who are in the front row in defending democratic order and security. Remembering is a duty for us. You, Minister, have said here that we are faced with an individual gesture. I also think that this is the case, but it will not escape either you or, I think, the investigators who are faced with an individual gesture of very high symbolic character, both for the moment and for the space in which it took place. It will then have to be investigated and, in this regard, let me say that I hope that they will go through with it. However, it remains a gigantic issue: we are not in the United States, it is not very easy to get a weapon. If I am allowed to give a suggestion here as a Member of Parliament, we must investigate a great deal on that subject, to understand how it is possible for someone to have a weapon and have one at his disposal; we must understand what is the circuit that brought that weapon into the hands of Preiti. We are faced with an inexcusable act. I would like this House to be convinced of what we are saying: it is unjustifiable not only that we shoot two carabinieri, but that we shoot everyone who does it. Period. [[Applause.]] There is no reason in the world to shoot at another person: in democracy this is a principle that must not divide anyone. Secondly, if we want to be truly supportive of those who have paid an unspeakable price and their families, we must say very clearly no to verbal violence. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups and Senator Candiani.]] In these hours I have listened to appalling statements, and I would like those who issued them to be able to withdraw them, because in politics it can also happen to be wrong. The best thing for politics, to regain credibility, is to say wrong and those statements withdraw them. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and M5S groups and Senator Candiani.]] Let me say, however, that, when I say no to verbal violence, I am referring to everyone. The subject of verbal violence, in fact, is not just a political part: all of us, I first, have abused too much of verbal violence. On the other hand, we need sobriety in the conduct of politics, because it must be clear that no one is asked to give up his ideas or his complaints. Democracy, in fact, is made up of ideas, but also of complaints, which are the last to be heard and, however, can be done with firmness, strength and arguments, without being verbally violent. Finally, this must not lead us to the criminalization of dissent. [[Applause from the groupsPD, PdL and M5S.]] In a democracy, this must be another firm point: we must remember that - as Italian history has taught us - at the moment when politics in front of these events transmits the message to close itself in a fence and if today we give just such a signal, that fence, however wide it may be, will find people who will try to assault and violate it. The best way to respond to this is to show that politics is not a fence, but a free confrontation. There is a need for firmness in the principles, the ability to listen and the strength to do: the health of the Republic imposes it on us and is the best way to be close to the two people who are in the hospital today fighting for their lives. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u122	I would like to thank on behalf of the House the Minister for the Interior for his readiness and all those who have spoken on this interesting subject. I declare closed the debate on the information given by the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u125	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to bring back to you all senators a serious matter of violence on the night between Saturday and Sunday in Rome. Two guys, Luigi and Nicolas, were attacked, insulted and savagely beaten just because they were gay. Only the prompt intervention of a Carabinieri patrol interrupted the barbaric beating by arresting the beaters. In addition to the economic crisis that afflicts our country, we live in a moral crisis that, across our society, extends from the Palaces of power to the street and which is the cause of both the economic crisis and the facts of discrimination mentioned above. We therefore call on Parliament and the new Government to ensure that, in parallel with the implementation of the urgent measures for work and economic recovery, it does not forget the defence of civil rights and initiates a legislative and cultural activity that prioritises the implementation of the law against homophobia and the measures necessary to ensure respect for all civil rights, not just LGBT, and against all discrimination. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] I would add that I hope that the answers of politics are not the average finger, the vulgar gesture that Senator Gasparri addressed to the citizens a few days ago. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u126	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-17.ana.u127	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 6 May, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.55 p.m.
