ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first questions will be questions 3-00237 and 3-00393 on the conduct of the competition for the suitability of professors of first and second stages of constitutional law. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u4	Mr President, the interrogators ask whether the Minister is aware of the inconveniences that occurred in the competition for the suitability of professors of the first and second stages of constitutional law, which would have led to the resignation of the OECD member of the examining committee and what steps he believes he should take. It is a preliminary step that the Minister has full knowledge of the case described by the honourable Members and that the competent offices of the Ministry of Education, University and Research have taken prompt action to ensure the legitimacy of the procedure. In his request for resignation, submitted on 23 June 2013, the resigning professor argued that some members of the Commission adopted assessment criteria which were inconsistent with those agreed and published at the outcome of the first meeting. On the other hand, there have been no violations of the functioning of the committee, since both individual and collegial judgments have been regularly formulated. In the light of these observations, the Directorate-General for Universities has arranged all the necessary checks, including, as a matter of urgency, the hearing of the members of the Committee. On the outcome of the investigation, it was indeed found that some members of the committee had made the assessments on the basis of criteria not deliberated at the first meeting of 2 April 2013; therefore, by note of 8 August 2013, the aforementioned Directorate-General automatically annulled all the judgments already expressed and the minutes of the respective meetings, with the exception of that of 2 April 2013 on the evaluation criteria. The Commissioners were then asked to re-assess all candidates' curricula in accordance with the criteria laid down by the committee at its first meeting. With the same note of 8 August, the resignation of the resigning professor was also rejected, and the reasons for the resignation had to be considered obsolete. On 5 September 2013, however, the latter submitted a new request for resignation, motivated by occupational and personal needs, which was finally accepted. By directorial decree No 1606 of 9 September 2013, the Directorate-General for the University then carried out a supplementary draw for the replacement of the commissioner and, at the outcome of the draw, identified a new member of the commission, then formally designated by directorial decree No 1717 of 20 September 2013. On the occasion of the transmission of this decree to all the members of the commission, the Directorate-General reminded them of the results of the verification of the previous work and the need for the new evaluations to be carried out in accordance with the criteria set out in the minutes of 2 April. The same Directorate-General has given full readiness to clarify any doubts which may still arise about the procedure and has ensured that it will follow closely the subsequent operations, which it trusts will be carried out in full legitimacy, since no elements have emerged to suggest that, as a result of the events described, the impartiality and serenity of judgment of the commission has failed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u7	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Galletti for his reply, for which I am pleased. Our question, which dates back to July, was submitted after we learned, thanks to Commissioner Balaguer's letter of complaint, of the serious irregularities and, above all, of the repeated changes in the evaluation criteria. We therefore felt obliged to ask the Minister to consider, in the process of self-protection, the suspension and re-evaluation of all the curricula presented. Since it is precisely in this direction that the solution has been found, we can only be fully satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u10	BEEPS (PD). Mr President, I agree with what Mrs Puglisi has already said. As far as the method is concerned, I must point out that my question was lodged yesterday morning. Since the reply has been given at a distance of twenty-four, I consider the behaviour of the Ministry, and the Undersecretary in a particular way, more than commendable. However, I would like to make a recommendation. Our questions were driven by concern about what could have been created if non-compliant assessments had persisted. In addition, Mr Undersecretary, the OECD Commissioner's letter showed a criticism of our attitude to the fact that the meetings of the committee were held and then there were other meetings, outside the official nature of the committee. I hope that the Ministry and the Directorate-General will ensure that the criteria for the meetings are the official ones, and not others in which assessments are made, possibly also in accidents, such as what happened, which was Italian but not only, because it concerned a committee in which representatives of the OECD also participated. The prayer is that all this no longer occurs, but at the same time I thank you for the decisions that have been taken by the Ministry and the Directorate-General.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u11	Following is the question 3-00170, on the closure of two presidies of Police in the province of Caserta. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u12	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Capacchione puts to the attention of the Government the problem of the possible closure of two principals of the State Police: that of Casapesenna and the detachment of the mobile team of Casal di Principe, both in the province of Caserta. It should be remembered that the permanent operational post of the State Police of Casapesenna was established in 1996 and 2008 to it was added the detached section of the mobile team of Caserta, currently engaged in delicate investigations related to organized crime. This garrison is part of a context of strengthening and control of the territory that has given rise to the so-called "Caserta" model, which then proved to be of great operational effectiveness in the fight against organised crime. In those territories, in fact, the surveillance and control devices of the territory are implemented with the help of the personnel of the crime prevention departments of the State Police, to which are added military of the Arma dei Carabinieri and the Guardia di Finanza and a large contingent of the Armed Forces, made available by the Ministry of Defense in the framework of the operation "secure roads". Therefore, there are the conditions to reassure the senator that at the moment there is no evidence of closure of the detached section of Casal di Principe, while the provision for the abolition of the operational fixed post of the State Police of Casapesenna to date is not yet perfected. Under current legislation, the subject matter is the subject of prior information to trade unions. Therefore, a draft of the decree of abolition, signed by the Head of Police, was transmitted to the national secretariats of the eight unions of the staff of the State Police, six of which asked for a meeting (whose date has not yet been fixed) so that this draft can be examined jointly. It should be pointed out that the proposal for the abolition of the fixed place of Casapesenna takes into account precise technical assessments which allow the operational capacity of the State Police structures in the territory concerned to be maintained unchanged. The remodulation of the organization of the two premises through the optimization of the employment of the available staff allows, in fact, a redistribution of the resources on the territory. At the same time, both the Aversa Commissariat, which currently has a shortage of staff of 19 units, and that of Castel Volturno, which lacks 2 units, as well as the section of Casal di Principe's mobile team, where they serve a total of 26 units compared to a forecast of 46 units in staff. For the latter, which has become a significant point of reference for judicial action over time, it would increase its investigative capacity, compared to the high number of delegated and direct-initiative investigations. Moreover, as is well known, the difficult situation and the approved measures to reduce expenditure, which have also affected recruitment for police forces, do not make it easy to immediately strengthen or correct organic deficiencies. Nevertheless, the action to reorganize the presence of police forces responds, as a matter of priority, to operational needs aimed at ensuring maximum effectiveness in the fight against organised crime and in the ability to make investigation activities even more penetrating. The current legislation on the reduction of public expenditure unfortunately allows to hire staff of up to 50% of the pensions for each of the years 2013 and 2014, up to 70 percent for the year 2015 and, only from 2016, the assumptions will be 100% of the pensions. However, the need to reduce public expenditure will never, as has already been said, lead to a fall in the levels of effectiveness and efficiency of services rendered to citizens from the point of view of order and public security, or a fall in the fight against organised crime.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u15	CAPACCHIONE (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for his very comprehensive reply, which also complements some of the information we had received on the ground during our meeting with the Quaestors on the same subject. I understand the needs and budgetary constraints that impose a restructuring of the staff within the same area, but I also wanted to remind the Government that it adopted a recommendation on the same subject a few months ago, signed by almost all the Senators of Campania, also of the 5 Star Movement Group, in which we asked, precisely aware of the fact that there were serious budgetary problems, to use in a more structural way the forces that are currently on mission in the province of Caserta, coming from the Campanian core, the prevention core or the Armed Forces themselves, providing for a transfer of the same, with a considerable saving. These people have been on a mission even for several years, since 2008, even if on a rotational basis, therefore with an increase of costs regarding food and accommodation, while they could instead be transferred, at least in part, and keep a garrison in Casapesenna, which is certainly a small country, but I would like not to forget that it is the country of the head of the clan of the Casalesi, of the Zagaria family, which has not been defeated at all as it is believed, and therefore it would also have a symbolic value. I know that in order to keep such an office open in a functional way, it takes at least 30 people, who are not there, but I also know that removing the only garrison of that municipality means giving a signal of another nature to the same territory. I therefore repeat the recommendation to the Government to consider also the possibility of transferring those who are on mission today.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u16	Following is the question 3-00341 on the abolition of the detachment of the Cassino Road Police. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u17	Mr President, in the city of Cassino the road police is now present with two departments, the motorway subsection A1, with competence on the section of the Autostrada del Sole between Ceprano and Caianello, and a detachment with competence on the ordinary roadway, consisting mainly of the Via Casilina and the roads of great communication Cassino-Sora and Cassino-Formia. As Senator Astorre pointed out, a possible combination of the detachment of the Cassino Road Police with the local A1 motorway subsection is being studied. Currently the draft measure is the subject of joint examination with the union organizations of the staff of the State Police. It should be clarified that this intervention, the result of a careful functional analysis of the two departments, also relating to the geographical density of the places and the importance of the road arteries concerned, is part of a wider context of organizational reorganization of the Road Police, aimed at a better rationalization of the use of human and instrumental resources. In fact, the 20 operators of the detachment of the Road Police would simply be merged with the contiguous subsection of the Road Police which, in the state, has 41 employees. Moreover, with this merging operation, with a view to organizational flexibility, it will be possible to guarantee a number of patrols able to ensure an effective presence of the specialty of the Road Police on the ordinary road and motorway and, at the same time, to achieve a significant recovery of resources today distributed on two barracks.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u20	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Government and in particular Mr Bubbico for the promptness of his reply: the question is on 5 September, so the fact that the Deputy Minister has come immediately to answer in Parliament also bears witness to the great attention, perhaps also due to his parliamentary experience, to the needs that the parliamentarians of the territory represent to the Government. The timing has certainly been remarkable, the explanations of an ongoing measure, in the course of consultation, have been there. I allow myself to draw once again to the attention of the Government, which is in consultation on the provision of the Chief of Police, that the abolition of the detachment of the Cassino Road Police and the transfer of its human and instrumental equipment to the highway subsection of Cassino will inevitably have negative consequences for the territory of cassinate. In other words, there will be the definitive loss of an important police garrison, with consequent problems of functionality and efficiency of the apparatuses in charge of the management of safety and public and relative relief, serious damage to the citizens of those border territories. The cassinate, in fact (we remember the battles made for the court of Cassino), is a border territory for public order and crime. The decision to which reference is made will also mean that the priority of the services will be given to the rescue and the patrolling highways, and therefore those arteries that the Deputy Minister listed would most likely fall on the police station or the police, distracting personnel from the security of a very problematic territory. Then there is another question concerning the reorganization of this sector. I merely point out that there are also stables at stake, with expenses to be faced, so with great difficulty this amalgamation would lead to a saving of resources. In fact, being a poor home, there could be an increase in spending. I'm just taking the example of food stamps, which would triple. I therefore ask the Vice Minister, who has been so courteous and I am aware of all the needs of national security, to assess well, in the consultation with the union forces, whether this combination does not involve a depletion of the security of the territory and perhaps even an increase in expenses, without forgetting the logistic situation in which these operators of the road police work, which would be, if not upset, however put in danger. Therefore, while I am very pleased with the speed of the Vice-Minister's reply, I would ask that this matter be examined in greater depth and that this measure be considered in consultation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u21	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u24	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, my speech is on the question put by Senator Capacchione, both to endorse what my colleague has already put forward, and to recall the agenda already accepted as a recommendation from the Government, and to warn that I have tabled a motion on the same subject (the 1-00111) for the revocation of the Chief of Police's decree. I therefore ask the Presidency whether it is possible to envisage the debate in this House on this parliamentary act, in order to try to arrive at the solution of a very sensitive issue on the territory of Caserta.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u25	Senator Moronese, the Conference of Leaders will address the problem, and I think that your Group will take advantage of your requests.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u26	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-113.ana.u27	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 1 October, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.25 a.m.
