ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr BERGER, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u4	SIBILIA (PdL). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u7	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for the floor on the request for a quorum that was made just now. Some senators, including myself, come from the RAI Supervisory Committee, where the hearing of the Deputy Minister for Economic Development took place, during which we talked about the RAI contract: that is why we were late. I would ask my fellow senators, when the meetings of the committees are taking place, to wait five minutes to allow us to get to the Chamber, because otherwise we will not succeed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u8	Senator Centinario, it's 4:05, by the way. Anyway, the Senate was lucky to have a quorum. The Presidency will take this into account for the next time and, however, the Commissions should finish their work in conjunction with the start of the House's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u9	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u10	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.07).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u11	The next item is the debate on Document LVII, No 1-a. The rapporteur, Senator Santini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the Update Note to the Economic and Finance Document, provided for in Article 7 of Law No 196 of 2009, updates the estimates of growth and government accounts for 2013-2017 compared to the data reported in the DEF presented last April. The Note highlights an international macroeconomic scenario characterized by a gradual and differentiated recovery between the various geographical areas: the economic performance in the euro area has been recorded after six months of slight contraction signs of growth and, for our country, a gradual reduction in the rate of decline of gross domestic product, which in the second quarter has been reduced by 0.3%, compared to 0.6 percent in the first quarter. According to the Update Note, GDP is expected to contract 1.7% in 2013, serving a negative drag effect of 1% since 2012 (this is a higher forecast than in April, i.e. less than 1.3%). On the other hand, in 2014-2015, growth of 1 and 1.7% is expected, thanks to the increase in domestic and external demand due to the positive effects of economic support measures. As highlighted by the Note, the Government reiterates its commitment to take timely action to maintain the deficit within the 3% of GDP threshold in 2013, compared to the 3.1 recorded last month. The achievement of this objective is considered essential in order to guarantee Italy autonomy in the management of its economic and fiscal policies, preserving the necessary credibility at international level in order to contain the expenditure on interest on public debt, estimated for 2013 in approximately 84 billion euros. In addition, the Commission's Note outlines a path towards the objective of fiscal balance, which, in line with national and European rules, would be achieved from 2015. The programmatic debt-to-GDP ratio (before the financial support of the other Member States of the European Union and the past debts of the public administration) increased from 127 per cent in 2012 to 132.9 per cent in 2013 to 133.8 per cent in 2014. As the PA's commercial debt payments run out (expected to be 1.2 points of GDP in 2014), a more pronounced reduction in the debt ratio is expected to be up to 120.1 percent in 2017. In this respect, the deterioration of needs in 2013 would be due both to the acceleration of the dynamics of government levies, in particular in relation to the payment of previous debts, and to higher tax refunds and higher interest payments due to a different schedule of issues compared to last year. In relation to developments in the public accounts, the Note shows a mostly positive trend, even in this economic situation. The needs of the state sector are expected to continue to improve, from the current 5.3% of GDP in 2013 to a minimum of 3.6% in 2014, and then continue to reach a 0.4% surplus in 2017. Interest expenditure is expected to improve compared to the DEF forecast. For the years 2013-2017, the updated note estimates an increase in debt service expenditure, but at an average annual rate of 2.5%, lower than the previous DEF, of 6.8%. All this, to point out that a period of political stability and government can favor the reduction of the spread on the interest rates of sovereign debt, recovering by this way resources useful for the support of the economy. Net programmatic debt is expected to decline gradually in the coming years, from 3% in 2013, which needs to be recovered quickly, to 2.5 percent in 2014 and to 0.1 percent in 2017. In the course of an unprecedented recession in its history, Italy lost more than 8 percentage points of GDP. In the first months of the current legislature, the Government has supported the resumption of economic activity through various initiatives: the acceleration of public administration payments, aimed at injecting liquidity and to loosen the grip on the credit; the refinancing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation; the intervention on the cost of labour for young people; measures to support the manufacturing sectors and the construction sector, which have unfortunately seen their product drastically reduced in recent months. The Update Note, in addition to the macroeconomic framework of the public accounts and the trend forecasts, also provides an update of the ongoing reform actions according to the recommendations received by the European Council in order to support the competitiveness and economic growth of our country, which unfortunately results, even from recent surveys, still decreasing compared to previous years. To this end, the Note contains specific chapters to highlight the actions that the Commission intends to take, in accordance with the legislative initiatives already undertaken, on institutional reform, on the structural rebalancing of public accounts, on the reform of the tax system (with the bill of tax delegation already approved in the House), on labour market reform and public administration, on which it recalls the need to take account of the guidelines on these issues in the relevant parliamentary committees, which have examined and issued substantive opinions. In this regard, we would like to point out that, as a complement to the 2014-2016 budgetary manoeuvre, the Update Note provides for the link to the budgetary decision six draft laws concerning development and simplification, work and social equity, civil justice, green economy, local authorities and relaunch of the agricultural and agri-food sector. The specific chapters of the update note focus on the strategic role of the development of the Mezzogiorno (with particular attention to the use of European regional funds and the National Fund for Development and Cohesion), infrastructure and transport, research and high training, as drivers of the country's economic development. Even with a view to achieving the objective of reducing the tax burden and maintaining the sustainability of public finances, the Government believes that by setting a policy target for primary public expenditure will increase the effectiveness of spending review processes, and for this purpose a new Commissioner has just been appointed. We believe that this particular action should be highly valued. In 2014 the Italian Presidency of the European Council will represent a decisive opportunity for our country to urge European policies aimed at growth and employment support to be supported by those of budgetary control. This is an opportunity that draws for our country a role of primary importance, to be supported thanks to the credibility that will be recognized to us in a framework of political stability, of reformative capacity and of respect for the budgetary constraints determined by the Community's obligations. In conclusion, I would like to draw the attention of the House and the Commission to the content of the opinions approved by the relevant Commissions, which are a valuable contribution to analysis and policy proposals. These contents and reflections will also be useful in view of the discussion of the next Stability Act, which will take place in the coming weeks. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u13	I would like to inform the House that motion for a resolution No 1 has been tabled, signed by Senator Uras and other senators. As agreed by the Conference of Leaders, any further motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, when I looked at the DEF Update Note, I had the impression that I was faced with a document written in the hope that those who would read it, in Italy and in Europe, ignoring the real economic and social context, would simply have convinced themselves that in Italy everything is going in the right direction and that, as has been said for years now, the recovery is there, around the corner, waiting for us. Then I would like to focus on some of the phrases and some of the declarations of intent contained in this document. Let us start with the macroeconomic framework described in this document, which states that: The improvement of household confidence indicators provides for a gradual recovery of domestic demand in the coming quarters, with beneficial effects on the service sector. I would like to ask one question: do these improving indicators also include the 5 million Italian households below the poverty line? Speaking of credit, the document before us states that: The credit market is still fragile, but there seems to be a prerequisite for its gradual normalization. With the improvement of the outlook for the economy, there should be a gradual increase in the demand for loans from companies and the prevalence of more relaxed credit conditions due to a reduction in the perception of the risk associated with the business activity. So many good guesses! We are referring to the same credit system that has not extended the strings of the stock exchange to companies even when the ECB has given them billions of euros to the symbolic interest of 1%. Yeah, I almost forgot that at the time it was convenient for the government to buy with those funds shares of our public debt (which made 5 or 6 percent, but these are details): there was a spread to be lowered, so it was better to make little noise and patience for small and medium-sized enterprises, which in fact represent the backbone of the Italian economy, always quoting the Update Note. Should we now witness the miracle of credit on the basis of the improvement of the outlook for the economy? These are the same prospects according to which up to April this year they had closed more than 4,000 small and medium-sized enterprises, about 43 each day. But let us continue and evaluate some of the responses to the recommendations of the EU Council to Italy. For example, in order to ensure that the deficit remains below the 3% of GDP reference value in 2013 it is said, among other things: "the draft law for the abolition of public funding and the regulation of voluntary contribution to political parties (...)" has been amended. We are talking about something that should no longer exist since 1993 and that attempts are being made to change with a law that is the result of quarrels and compromises, which will probably succeed even in the difficult attempt to worsen the current situation. It is also said that the constitutional bill for the abolition of Provinces has been amended. Great. But doesn't it seem strange to you that this didn't trigger reactions? Is it because it is already known that this constitutional law, despite the probable assassination of the Constitution, will never even arrive in the Chamber? Let us turn to the recommendation on the financial system, in which we are essentially asked to make the banking system more efficient: the Government provides that the Bank deposits and loans can acquire bank bonds in the context of securitisation of loans from mortgage-backed loans on residential properties, in order to facilitate the provision by banks of new loans to households for the purchase of main houses. But has the U.S. experience taught nothing? Does the term subprime mortgages remind you of anything? We are moving forward on the job: instead of having to save banks that securitisation inexpensive loans, we directly commit the Bank deposits and loans to buy garbage and take away our thoughts. Recommendation on the tax system: "Transfer the tax burden from labour and capital to consumption, real estate and the environment by ensuring budget neutrality" And how do we respond? For example, with the cancellation of the IMU on the first houses, also those with 14 cadastral rooms and swimming pool, and the simultaneous introduction of the service tax. It is a tax of which we can certainly appreciate the federalist vocation, but which will also affect the tenants (therefore potentially a weak section of the population) and which, including the remuneration of the waste service, will most likely move us further away from the European separate collection targets. And how can I forget the increase in VAT, on which I would say a few words? In the DEF of April 2013, it was expected to maintain the deficit-to-GDP ratio by 3%, perpetuating the IMU 2012 experimental regime (which, as we know, has skipped) and increasing VAT to 22%. The DEF had been prepared by the Monti Government supported by PD and PDL. Didn't you read it? IMU and VAT were promises made to Europe in response to recommendations since April. The first jumped and the non-introduction was covered in such a way as to give rise to deep concerns in the Court of Auditors. As for the increase of the second (which will still be useless, since VAT revenue is already falling as a result of the decline in consumption), probably you had no idea how to cover it, except to introduce another imposition with the traditional game of the three cards. Was anyone hoping that our European Guardians would turn to the other side? Finally, I have been holding this document for about fifteen days (perhaps twenty), but I guess it was available for longer. Here it was written, clearly, that VAT would be increased; therefore, the manfrina between Alfano and the Premier and the consequent fibrillations of the known offender were a pathetic electoral staging. Continuing the reading, the Note to the DEF also gives us some guidance on how to give coverage to past and future government actions, and here we find the great classics: increased excise duties on alcohol, smoking products and gaming measures. So, on the one hand, we commit resources to awareness campaigns against alcohol abuse, we write on cigarette packages that "Smoke seriously harms health" and we approve motions to counter the vice of the game and the risks associated with it and, on the other, we must hope that these same vices are always well present in the Italian population to keep the hut going. Basically, a conflict of state interests. But the real great future resource for our era is the multi-year plan for the enhancement of public heritage. Taking for granted that the process of valorization of the real estate assets does not resolve (as stated in the same report of the Budget Service) in mere transfers of ownership between internal sections of the public administration, as well as it would be possible to assume in case of subscription of the investment funds provided for in the same document by the social security institutions, the fear is that the word valorization can easily be replaced by sale. A fruitful campaign of disposals and privatizations of part of the national heritage is envisaged, but then it is admitted that: • the Government has considered it appropriate to halve the ambitious target of one percentage point of GDP per year of privatisations to make it more realistic and feasible, also in view of the still difficult conditions of the real estate and financial market •. So what? This real estate to whom do we plan to sell it or, better, sell it or, perhaps, given the economic situation of the real estate market, give it away? In conclusion, this Update Note, between sacrifices disguised by achievements and forecasts that I would call euphemistically too optimistic for the growth of the Italian economy, seems packaged as a book of fairy tales to be submitted to the European Union and to international investors to convince them once again that the crisis is over and we are reaching the famous light at the end of the tunnel. Perhaps we forgot to be a country that until yesterday was a special observation of the markets and that Europe and, above all, the Italians who still do not give up looking around, the fairy tales no longer believe. And maybe someone, when he listens to the Minister of Economy say that "Italians must know the truth about public accounts", now asks the fateful question: What did he mean by that? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Minister, this note to the DEF 2013 photographes a country in great difficulty, suffering, which is struggling to see the exit from a real economic depression, despite, as the rapporteur said, there are some timid signs of reversal of trend in some of the macroeconomic indicators. The work of rebuilding the trust of businesses and families and our industrial fabric will be long. We renew our trust in President Letta and Minister Saccomanni, whom we recognise as a healthy realism and which we ask to speed up on the ground of fairness and growth. In this respect, I shall touch only two questions, which are exemplary in their own way in relation to the urgent need to reverse the wrong assessments and underestimates that have been sedimenting in recent years. The more than 8,000 Italian municipalities, for example, are not one of the causes of the crisis, but can be, on the contrary, one of the levers of the recovery of small public works, important fly of our economy. We have positively recorded President Letta's commitment to the structural revision of the Stability Pact of the Municipalities by breaking out from illogical constraints that penalise virtuous administrators and, above all, penalise their citizens and the system of suppliers. This request from the mayors has been talked about for a long time, for too long: it is time to act, and to act soon. The other chapter of the Government's renewed commitment is on the ground of fairness and the fight against tax evasion. On the fact that the tax burden has reached unsustainable levels, especially for families in difficulty at this stage of crisis, one can only agree, as it is written on all economic books that there is a correlation between a high tax burden and a propensity to tax infidelity, as Dr. Befera has recently reminded us. In Annex 2 to the 2013 DEF Update Note, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance presents for the first time an annual report on the results achieved on measures to combat tax evasion, on which I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues. It is a data mine that allows you to be aware of the gigantic dimensions of the phenomenon of undeclared work and black work. The latest estimates released by ISTAT in this document refer to the year 2008 and quantify the added value produced in the economic blackout area between a minimum of EUR 255 billion and a maximum of EUR 275 billion, corresponding respectively to 16.3 billion and 17.5% of gross domestic product. Compared to 2000, the worst year, there is an improvement of about two percentage points over GDP. We are also able to finally have certainty of the portion of the economic submerged produced by the use of irregular work, commonly called black. In 2008 it is estimated at over 102 billion euros and, above all, 37% on the maximum estimate of the value produced by the area of the economic blackout. It is also interesting to divide between the shadow economic sectors: 32.8% of the agricultural product, 12.4% of the industry and 20.9% of the services. In other words, we have an invisible army of nearly three million irregular workers. It is from the illumination of this black hole in all senses (economic, social, ethical and legal) that it is necessary, in our opinion, to restart both to decrease the tax pressure, and to make our tax fairer. Every euro recovered from the re-emergence of the submerged must be directed to soothe the wounds of this endless crisis. In order to achieve these objectives, commercial interventions are not enough, announcements which often do not follow subsequent acts, but we need continuous, constant and serious work of maintenance and deforestation of the forest of tax rules behind which there is a humus of corruption and fiscal infidelity incompatible with a modern state and, above all, a brake on public investment, indispensable for starting the recovery on the axis of cuts to taxation on workers and enterprises. Finally, we expect that the commitment made at the last G8 and at the most recent European summits, as President Letta has also reminded us, of radical measures to combat tax evasion and avoidance rooted in the so-called tax havens, will quickly translate into effective measures. The fight against evasion must therefore return to the centre of the attention and action of the Government, Parliament and the media: an inescapable national issue, and not only for sacred ethical reasons and respect for the many millions of honest taxpayers of this country. I would just like to give one example: the scandal of increasing a VAT point, which was worth 1.1 billion euros for the last quarter of 2013 and 4.4 billion euros for the whole of 2014. The inconsistency of this manoeuvre in the presence of an extraordinary crisis in domestic consumption caused by the recession has rightly been highlighted on several fronts. Well, by trying to do a proper processing of the data contained in this document, in the report I mentioned, the estimate of VAT evasion in 2012 is about €32 billion. If we were to recover even half of this amount (EUR 16 billion), we would be faced with an amount three times greater than the much-vaunted increase in VAT from 21% to 22%. In 2012, the assessment and control activity generated VAT revenues of around 2.4 billion. I invite you to reflect on these numbers. There is therefore a great job to be done for all of us, each with its own responsibilities and tasks, but the fight against evasion is a national emergency on which we must concentrate energies, economic resources, investments, innovative legislation, because the objective of paying everyone to pay less is not an unattainable utopia, but one of the foundations of the new Italy after the exit from the crisis. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u17	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Economic and Financial Document (DEF) is considered to be the central focus of the economic and financial programming and budgetary cycle. This is an opportunity to look to the past, but above all to imagine the future of the country's economic and budgetary policies in a European key, and we can already grasp the ideas that this document offers us in a precise and detailed way. All of this, Mr President, is mentioned in a document from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. There is to say, to be honest, that to that document I added the word "consider" at the beginning of my speech, and I wanted to emphasize the words "passed" and "imagine". I added the term "consider yourself" because it seemed to me to understand that, more than the central pivot of this new gear, this DEF seems just a missing wheel of some tooth. If you look at the past, it seems to me that nothing has been learned from the mistakes of the past. As for the term 'imagining', imagining is a bit like dreaming, but who has to guide the country towards the future, or thinks to do so, cannot imagine, but must have certainties, because this is its role. The key element of the Update Note of the Economic and Finance Document, recently approved by the Council of Ministers, concerns gross domestic product for the year 2013, estimated to fall by 1.7% compared to 2012. In my opinion, the aspect to be highlighted is the previous estimate. In April, in fact, when the Government presented the current year's DEF, it stated with regard to GDP that this would be marked by a substantial stabilisation in the second quarter of 2013 and a growth in the second part of the year. However, due to the negative drag from 2012 and the expected contraction in the first part of the year, the annual change in GDP will remain negative and equal to -1,3 percent. On the contrary, in 2014 the growth figure will be significantly above 1%. This is a very bad forecast, given that today's figures are predicting an even greater recession than expected only a few months ago. Considering the recent increase in the ordinary rate of VAT and other taxes that citizens will have to pay between 2013 and 2014 (between IMU, TARES and all the other acronyms that we have invented will end up having more acronyms than taxes) it is difficult to expect, as the Government has predicted, an economic recovery already from 2014. We have to deal with the tax burden and the DEF shows us how it has risen in 2013, while unemployment and pension expenditure are growing. I'd say they're communicating vessels, and that's not good at all. According to the Note, the tax burden in 2013 would be 44.3%, a record level, all the more so when compared with other European countries and that, together with our age-old issue of the tax wedge, well explains why in Italy it is so difficult to talk about recovery. Compared to 2011, when the first signs of crisis had already been heard, the percentage value increased further by 2%. Too high and unsustainable, but in order to reduce it we must first of all have clear assumptions that have led to it. This level of fiscal pressure is the result of the lack of structural reforms, reforms that our country has postponed until the structural crisis in public finances has exploded in all its evidence. Increase the tax burden to increase budget revenue. This has been the combination that has accompanied government action in recent years. To make it clear to those who listen to us from home, I'm glad that Istat found that the tax burden has increased. Our Group thanks him because no one noticed. The figure for the tax burden of 44.3% is not true, since at a careful calculation the tax burden, adding to the tax burden the contribution, rises by more than 60%. The State has become a partner no longer at 50%, but at 60%, a partner who shares profits with the worker without, of course, ever taking on any losses or difficulties. In addition to taxes, the household will also be burdened with the impoverishment of payrolls whose purchasing power dropped 1.7% compared to 2012 figures. With regard to unemployment, the Commission has also revised upwards the relative estimate which makes us, at least this, a positive figure in 2013 when it is expected to reach 11.6 percent compared with 11.4 percent previously forecast in November. The figure is particularly serious for several reasons. First of all, the percentage is much higher when it comes to young people who show growing difficulties in entering the world of work, as is the increasing number of young people seeking work who go abroad, in Europe or in America. Looking at the figure for 2012 we can easily see that from this point of view too the value is in further deterioration, since last year the unemployment rate was still at 10.7%. Unfortunately, future prospects are also not positive. In 2014, the rate is expected to rise further to 11.8%. Unemployment among young people between 15 and 24 years of age is alarming: in August the figure exceeded 40%, which seems to be tending, among other things, to deteriorate. Of course, it is better than the very high figure in Spain, with its 56% and it is better than that in Greece, which commands 61.5%, but dear President, we would do better to look rather at Austria, which has 8.2%, or even better at Germany, with 7.7%. Italy cannot easily be placed together with Spain and Greece among the last places regarding the working conditions and strategies of the Government aimed at improving the labour market and the fact that it is together with these countries, Madam President, should make the same Government reflect: given the end that Greece has made, it is not necessary to be a fortune teller to understand to which lido it is heading this country. Do we want to talk about pension spending? Unfortunately, even here, Madam President, things are not getting any better. In the report delivered by the Government to the Chambers in April it was highlighted that at the end of 2012 pension expenditure on GDP had a value of 15.9%. For the current year, pension expenditure will be 16.2% of GDP, rising to EUR 255.2 billion. We also have to consider how we spend this money: 44.1% of pension allowances are below EUR 1,000 and I would say even worse, Madam President. 13.3% of pensioners receive less than EUR 500 from the State. Its impact on GDP has risen by 0.2 per cent, and yet, Madam President, the revenue generated and therefore the taxes derived from pension contributions are higher in Italy than in all other OECD countries. In fact, the contributions affect wages for almost 33% compared to an OECD average of 21%. This morning we also discussed in some amendments the golden vitality of public managers; the cut to gold vitality was asked to you again this morning, but there was nothing to do; the government was deaf. Personally, like my Group, I am very concerned: the market does not start again because in order to maintain the deficit-GDP ratio below the 3% threshold for 2013, timely action will be needed. In order to respect this parameter and to contain interest expenditure on public debt, estimated for 2013 at 84 billion euros, the Government has not expressed itself on how it intends to intervene in order to bring this parameter under control. It is not quite clear to me either, because they have not spoken, nor is it clear how they will do it. Madam President, I would like to remind those who listen to us from home that Italy has just left the excessive deficit procedure that Brussels had operated against this country. This was done with maneuvers of balance tears and blood. I mean that without the attention to growth, development, young people, small and medium-sized enterprises and manufacturing, we will need more maneuvering since the 3% figure has again been exceeded. On the Stability Pact, Madam President, I would like to remind the House as a whole that in a hearing Franco Gabrielli, the head of civil protection of this country, said that Italy is a country that literally falls apart, either we intervene in a structural way or we will count deaths and disasters and this declaration is due to the theme of the Stability Pact and the consequent budgetary constraints of the municipalities. I wonder, Mr President, how much of a percentage of GDP does a possible, even partial, release of this harmful rule. As far as the debt-to-GDP ratio is concerned, this is expected to increase again in 2013 to reach the value of 132.9% with which the financial year 2013 should be closed. Nevertheless, a plan to reduce the same debt since 2014 is confirmed, even if we do not know how and with what interventions this will happen. This country has an extraordinary tradition in culture, craftsmanship, commerce and manufacturing, has great potential in agriculture, industry and tourism, and it is on these that we must aim to save our economic system. Let's stop, in the various Commissions both in the House and in the Senate, moving a billion that potentially isn't from one chapter to another. It is an unnecessary exercise: if we do not put our hands on certain issues, we will never solve any kind of problem. New job opportunities must be created with a different approach to issues on the part of all. We need a cultural revolution. In times of severe crisis such as this one must dare and be enterprising. The oppressive tax burden, excessive bureaucracy, research and poor development, high energy costs, organized crime too widespread and present and uncertain legal certainty are some of the main causes that oppress the Italian manufacturing industry and that do not allow it to effectively combat the heavy crisis that has been going through the whole European business system for years to the benefit of emerging countries. The values of the Update Note are almost all, mostly worse than the previous version of the Finance Document presented only a few months ago. Madam President, it is certainly not enough to point to the continuing economic downturn which, moreover, is all the more negative if we consider that the current forecasts are already talking about difficulties for 2014. Take, by way of example, the household spending that will continue to fall even in 2013, marking a contraction of 1.7%, after the minus 3.9 percent in 2012 and the minus 0.2 percent in 2011. Is it possible to predict an increase in household consumption, as the current Government has done, when these have already shown a significant drop and since just a few days ago the current Executive increased the VAT rate? I'm telling you frankly, no. It is no coincidence, in fact, that even the revenue of the latter has marked a very clear overall reduction, clearly demonstrating the difficulties of the country. The further contraction of GDP, from 1.566 billion in 2012 to the expected 1.557 of 2013, will only accentuate the difficulty of the country's economic recovery, all the greater because, decreasing the GDP, will inevitably increase also the debt-to-GDP ratio. The picture is all the more negative if we consider, as confirmed by recent analyses by the OECD, that while other countries of the euro area, including Portugal itself (which has not shone for economic performance in recent years), are slowly but gradually restarting, Italy continues to remain on the stake. In view of our public accounts, given the European parameters that force us to move between very narrow stakes, since shock therapy is not possible except with a drastic reduction in the tax burden, also because it is not possible to cut public expenditure significantly, since the profit and loss account of the public administration shows that expenditure has increased and therefore that the reduction of the deficit has only been achieved by increasing taxes and since it is always spoken with renewed vigour of the control of expenditure, I remind everyone, including us, that nothing will actually be possible if fiscal federalism and the standard cost system are not adopted. The only positive note for the state's finances, Madam President, is that the construction of new prisons will not weigh economically, given what shamefully you are carrying out: indult, amnesty and abolition of the crime of illegality [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I also want to say that if the angle we place ourselves in front of Merkel and Europe is given by the sum of two times 45 degrees, we will never emerge from a crisis that, due to economic impact and temporal intensity, is stronger than that of 1929. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u19	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u20	Madam President, the DEF is the instrument on which our country's economic and budgetary policy planning is based. The DEF, the general state statement, budgetary adjustment, the DEF Update Note and the Stability Act are all documents linked to each other and are among the special supervised by the Council of the European Union and the European Commission. The Council of the European Union adopts acts which directly affect the lives of citizens and have a significant international effect. For Italy, six recommendations have been prepared and the Italian Government, in order to take this into account, has made the necessary integration changes to the DEF, in order to comply with the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme contained in the DEF. Starting from some data, let's see how our government moves. To have the measure and sense of what we are talking about, let's start from the state budget and its composition at 31 December 2012. The State budget by competence (what the State determines) indicates in about €785 billion the total amount of revenue and in about €749 billion the total amount of expenditure (commitments). Of these total amounts, however, only one part concerns the characteristic management of the State and is represented by revenue and final expenditure. In order to simplify, therefore, the final revenue is for the most part only tax and extra-tributary revenue and for a lesser part other income: the total amount amounts to approximately € 545 billion. With this money the State maintains its machinery, paying income for employees, for intermediate consumption, for transfers to public administrations, as well as interest payable on public debt. The total final expenditure is EUR 535 billion, of which more than 81 billion are committed to paying interest on the Italian public debt. Therefore, if we relate the amount of interest on debt to final expenditure, we realize that as much as 15% of what is spent is committed not to improving the living conditions of Italians, starting from school, from justice, from public administration, but to reducing public debt, as the Council of the European Union recommends. However, another aspect must also be taken into account. Italy, if it always takes into account the revenue and final expenditure by competence, produces a budget surplus of around €10 billion. This means that the Italians, with their sacrifices and with the loaning to which they are and are subject, manage to cover all the expenses to run the gigantic and bureaucratic machine of the State and also manage to determine in the budget of the State a surplus of approximately 10 billion euros, that would increase to approximately 92 billion euros if Italy did not pay the 81 billion interest liabilities on the public debt. Even if you consider the public administration account under current legislation (sum of central government accounts, local government and social security and assistance agencies), the primary surplus is positive in 2012 and 2013, whose forecasts estimate a primary surplus of about 35 billion euros. With the numbers just quoted, in a normal country, the accounts should not only be in order, despite the enormity of customer and unproductive spending, but the Italians should be lowered the tax pressure, returned the maltolto and introduced a citizenship income worthy of this name. Every year we eat 92 billion primary state surplus. Let us now turn to the remaining component of the budget, in particular to other revenue and expenditure. The other revenues, always to simplify, are represented, for the majority, from the ignition of loans for an amount of approximately 239 billion euros and the other expenses are represented, to a large extent, from the reimbursement of the financial liabilities for the amount of approximately 214 billion euros. Therefore, a large part of the state budget, namely 39.5%, concerns not the lives of citizens but always the management of public debt. Set these figures well, we can understand if the austerity policy and the recommendations that come from the Council of the European Union, for the drafting of the Note to the DEF, bring us out of this vicious circle that is strangling our country. It must also be remembered that the worst is coming for Italy. Since 2015 our country will have to deal with an infernal game: the rule of debt or Six Pack. The Six Pack states that Member States, whose debt exceeds 60% of GDP (ours is 132 percent), must reduce this ratio at an appropriate pace to reach the reference value. In order for the reduction to be "appropriate" it is necessary that the distance of the debt-to-GDP ratio from the 60% threshold be reduced to a step of one twentieth per year. Simply put, this means that in addition to the 295 billion that we already use for debt management, we need to find more to reduce the debt itself. Let us return to the Note to the DEF, which shows that our Government, in order to respect the European constraints - as I told Deputy Minister Casero - in addition to indicating in the DEF and in the draft laws data for acquisitions and instead not even discussed in the two branches of Parliament, is induced to represent a situation of the public accounts rose, continuing to persevere on the road of the optimistic forecasts announced and punctually wrong. We are therefore starting from the international situation by foreshadowing a very slow resumé, but we know that to ride it we should have a fair tax system, an efficient state, an honest and cohesive political class, a model school system, a health system that works, a strong social and industrial system, a justice that is put in the conditions of functioning, motivated citizens, and we could also continue. In the Note to the DEF, all this is already done, Eurostat figures are even ignored, and it is said that while GDP in the euro area, in the second quarter of 2013, grew by 0.3% compared to the previous quarter, where there had been a negative change in the growth rate of less 0.2%, Italy and Spain continue to remain in recession in the same period. It was only Germany and France that pulled growth. On an annual basis, the DEF estimates a decrease in Italian GDP of less than 1.7%, correcting the DEF's previous estimate of less than 1.3%. In fact, according to ISTAT estimates and other international bodies, the decline in GDP will also reach less than 1.9%. In the Note to the DEF, while in the euro area a GDP growth of 1% is projected for 2014, as by magic is foreshadowed also for Italy a growth in line with the European average of 1%, despite still today all economic sectors record a cyclical decrease in value added. For 2015, therefore, GDP growth is expected to be 1.7%, up to an increase to 1.9 percent even in 2017. I mean, it's okay, it's better than that! It doesn't matter to our government that families and businesses not only don't get credit, but they don't even ask for it, so they are discouraged, and that 40% of companies that manage to get credit use it to pay taxes. This percentage rises to 62% when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises. As a matter of fact, Italian companies find themselves crushed between a tax collector and a credit system that cuts their legs. Despite the accusations that are being made, especially by the president of the Puglia Vendola Region, it is said that we ape populism, now I want to monkey it on the basis of this data, your government action and your lack of authority to give answers also in the Commission, Deputy Minister Casero. Yesterday's news is the suicide of two other entrepreneurs. We had foreseen an amendment in the framework of the decree of the doing that facilitated the exercise and the installment at the time of the warning Bonario without then resorting to Equitalia and has been postponed in the tax delegation that in the DEF is given for acquisition when instead it is not yet true. Undersecretary De Vincenti said he would consider our proposals. Therefore, acting always for populism, I ask you to remember these yet another two suicides: they concern a man of 54 years and one of 58 years, resident in Puglia, crushed by the taxes of Equitalia. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bianco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u22	Madam President, I believe that none of us in this debate misses the broad framework of complexity, but at the same time of unity, in which to include the specific issues related to this debate on the DEF Update Note. I intervene on the health chapter, perfectly aware and also sharing that perspective, that priority agenda that sees in the recovery of the real economy (which means enterprise, work, citizens' spending capacity) the keystone to get out of this terrible spiral of recession in which for some years now our country has been annaspa. This awareness does not diminish, but exalts the moral and civil responsibility for the choices of politics, which must always be oriented towards ensuring social cohesion and relief from inconveniences for our citizens. Our public health - attention - is at the same time a real economy, because it is the backbone of that chain of health that records about 12% of the gross domestic product, but it is also a great garrison of moral and civil unity of the country. This - and this applies to health care, but also to other areas of welfare - does not mean that they must enjoy a position of income in the face of the complexity of the scenario we face. Actually, he didn't enjoy it at all. I would like to mention some of the facts that emerge from the documents we are examining today. Over the last two years, the trend health spending, as foreseen in the public finance documents, has suffered major reductions: compared to the 2011 Document of Economy and Finance, which we consider the reference point (so, a DEF of just two years ago), in the period 2011-2014 the expenditure has been reduced for cumulative 34 billion euros (repeat, in four years). The restrictions focused mainly on the most recent years: €11 billion for 2013, €13 billion for 2014. Added to this are the planned reductions for 2015, amounting to about 3 billion compared to what was only expected in the DEF of about a year ago, i.e. 2012. If we move from the trend expenditure to the actual one - which is perhaps a more useful reference - it must be specified that the health sector is the only one within the public administration that, according to my opinion, but of an absolutely third and authoritative subject (I refer to the Court of Auditors), has started over the last few years - and I quote the report - the most complete and advanced revision of expenditure. Just for all the known figure of 2012, the year in which it was spent in absolute value less than the previous year: 110.8 billion, compared to 111.6 billion in 2011. In 2012 not only did the Regions achieve expenditure savings even higher than those imposed by government maneuvers, but those savings were also fully incorporated into the spending forecasts of the following years. All this has happened, but we must be very careful and watch over the effects. Some effects are unquestionably positive and we are proud of them. Health has made an important contribution to the reduction of public expenditure, which grew by 0.2 per cent in 2013 in this sector compared to 1.3% in that of public administration. But attention must be paid, because the signs of difficulty are clear and clear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator White, please finish your speech. WHITE (PD). I conclude by stressing the growing difficulty of the system in guaranteeing services to citizens and operators to withstand demand, with demotivating elements. Madam President, I should like to express two concerns before concluding my speech. We take note of the fact that the Update Note maintains funding; we will see what will happen in the Stability Act. We must be careful, however, to the misunderstandings about the various adjectives of universalism. Universalism is not an ideological or abstract choice, but it is a concrete choice. It is universalist systems based on general taxation that guarantee the best relationship between resources employed, equity and effectiveness. They teach other systems that do not go in this direction in other countries. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u23	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u24	Madam President, I would like to begin with the remarks on the Economic and Financial Document by reading the first sentences contained in the report presented by the Government. After eight quarters of contraction, the Italian economy seems to have finally started towards a recovery. In the course of an unprecedented recession in its history, Italy lost more than 8 percentage points of GDP. Economic policy now has two priorities: to strengthen the current recovery and to intervene on the factors limiting Italian competitiveness and productivity in order to increase economic growth and employment. These sentences should tell us about a recovery and, therefore, a positive sign in the economy. Instead, the data provided to us are all negative, and they are also negative compared to the estimates made by the Government recently, also in the report on the state of the economy, recently presented and approved by the Senate and also in the documents that were accompanying the measure on credits boasted by the companies towards the public administration: the famous 40 billion euros, which then became almost 50 and that would now be in the phase of payment towards the enterprises. If the data and also estimates (even those made by the Government consistently in these months) are negative, where is the recovery in place? There is no recovery. If anything, there would be a small, small, insufficient and inadequate drag compared to a growth that is recorded in other parts of Europe and the world and that something also rains in our country. But the public debt has increased. And it's useless for me to give the figures, because they're written. Unemployment has increased and goes over 12% on a national basis but, above all, it marks record points in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. And there are even 12, 13 and 14 points of difference between the richest and the poorest regions of our country. GDP is falling. Eight quarters of contraction, eight points lost over the five years and now we have a figure of less 1.7 (and maybe 1.8), that I have not understood in what makes mark the recovery of the economy that is announced in the first sentences of the synthesis that accompanies the Document economy and finance. The gap between North and South increases, both economically and in terms of employment. The only thing that grows, based on these data coming from the banking circuit, is super rich. There are 2075, they have an average of €86 million in assets and, overall, they are worth €184 billion in assets, which is equal to twice the needs of this year's state. So that's the theme. And it does not stand the hypothesis, that the Government advances, to proceed exactly, without any significant change of its policy in the direction that was given at the time of the emergency government, the technical government presided over by Senator Monti. The hypothesis doesn't stand, if you don't make a change of pace. And in what must one change? It must be changed especially in the intention contained in the sentence I have just read. A priority is identified (in fact, two are identified, but one in a particular way): that of strengthening the recovery and, therefore, pushing the Italian economy towards economic and employment growth. How do you do that? To date we have had a clearly recessive austerity path. There is a blocking of public investment and there is no availability of private investment. Of course, taxation weighs heavily. We would have liked to have seen less VAT on consumption rather than less taxes, especially for some wealthy categories of the Italian population, on the first house. For us it would have been appropriate to do a different operation on the IMU and we should have avoided the extra percentage point on VAT, because in any case it does not guarantee more revenue. But above all, action must be taken to encourage economic activity through the form of public investment. The Economic and Financial Document is also accompanied by the list of public works that we must carry out. It is necessary to understand which will actually be realized, how to support that type of investment and how to qualify it and make it functional to economic development. It is necessary, then, to call everyone together, that is, to grow in this country a choral effort of those who have the political responsibility of the institutions, the central ones, but also the regional and local ones, which are instead the subject of pressure today. In fact, the assumptions that are being made in the provisions that are being addressed in this Senate are authoritarian and centralist and do not work in a modern economy. The second question: where are the social partners? Where are the social partners, major labour and economic organisations? They should be involved with the government in the effort to grow our country. They must, therefore, be called, not kept on the margins, not only consulted, but promoted in their activity. In fact, we also need a serious control of the social malaise that is developing in this country. It is necessary to recover the value of trade unionism in Italy, not only that of work, but also that of enterprise, small and medium-sized enterprises and craft enterprises. This must be done. It is necessary to solicit private capital, not rewarding it when it becomes a parasitic annuity: when it becomes a parasitic annuity it must be punished. In this sense, we must stay more within Europe, because Europe does this reasoning. Capital must be rewarded when it becomes productive investment capital; it must be punished when money is hidden under the mattress or exercised in speculative activity, in improving its own return on itself. I don't see any signs in the government in this direction. I do not see any sign in the Government that calls for reasoning on local development, that promotes the productive vocations of the places, that induces everyone to play their part. I do not even see an indication of a general, choral and shared moment of discussion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask you to conclude, Senator. URAS (Misto-SEL). We have proposed a National Employment Conference several times. Why does the government always say no to reasonable proposals that we make? [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u25	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech today is not just a criticism, but above all a clarification of the responsibilities that no one in this House seems to want to take on. I am going to explain, in the short time that I am allowed - without any presumption - the fiscal compact device wanted by most of those who sit in this House and the consequences it will bring in our economic and financial system. I allow myself to be simple, but not simplistic, for the sole purpose of reaching out to people and telling them how things really are. The Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance of Economic and Monetary Union - the so-called fiscal compact or budget pact - is the International Treaty signed on 2 March 2012 by 25 Member States of the European Union, excluding the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic. Its aim was to strengthen the economic pillar of Economic and Monetary Union, through the introduction of a set of rules aimed at strengthening fiscal discipline, through a budgetary pact, to strengthen the coordination of economic policies and to improve the governance of the euro area. The Treaty entered into force on 1 January 2013, subject to the deposit of the instrument of ratification by at least 12 signatory countries whose currency is the euro. What is important, however, is that the Treaty has been signed in the framework of international law, outside the Community. However, it is established by the agreement that the latter will be applied and interpreted in accordance with the Treaties on which the European Union is founded and with European Union law whenever the adoption of secondary legislation is required. However, the underlying justification for fiscal compact dates back to the growing indebtedness of some Member States of the European Union, which led to the sovereign debt crisis. Today, the Eurozone states are not only bound in quantitative terms, but have also to a large extent lost the sovereignty of budget formation, which must be subject to a preventive assessment by the eurozone institutions. In short, it is like delivering the keys of a car to a person without having put the fuel and pretending that it starts. It is often said that with the start of monetary union the constraints on fiscal policy laid down in the Maastricht Treaty - i.e. net debt of not more than 3% of GDP and debt of 60% of GDP - are further tightened with the adoption of the Stability Pact, which requires that the budget balance should be balanced or close to balance in the medium term. This rule has been reinforced by the so-called fiscal compact, which reiterates that the structural balance - i.e. net of cyclical developments - should not exceed 0.5% of GDP, while the gap between the share of debt in GDP and 60% should be reduced by 5% per year. What does that mean in practice? Let's take an example: Suppose Guy turned on a mortgage for 20 years to buy a property. Of course, he'll have chosen a installment that matches his standard of living and his salary. Suppose, now, that the bank suddenly asks him to pay the mortgage in the middle of the set time. What do you think happens? It seems obvious that Guy will find himself in such conditions that he must strongly sacrifice his standard of living. For example, you will not be able to pay your child's university fees or you will have to give up medical treatment or, worse still, you will have to go into debt with other credit institutions. Does that sound like science fiction? However, this is what we must prepare ourselves for when the fiscal compact enters our budget law forcefully. In fact, we will be forced to increase revenue strongly or to cut spending drastically. But what does all this really mean? It means an additional maneuver of approximately EUR 40 or 50 billion per year, or twice the IMU's revenue. However, we have seen very well the depressive effect on the economy of an increase in the tax burden, which is already at intolerable levels. Already citizens are well aware of what deep cuts in public spending mean. But then, I wonder: have we forgotten that in the acronym SGP - the Stability and Growth Pact - the letter "C" stands for "growth"? But on the basis of what economic logic must we punish the deficit of some Member States and never consider the surpluses of others that are complementary? Why insist on dividing Europe into good and bad when the system can only survive if there is mutual support between Member States? You, gentlemen, have relegated us on the international scene to a succub role of a philosophy that has shown all its weakness to the first economic crisis. That euro, which was intended to guarantee the prosperity and well-being of the peoples, is now perceived as a noose around the neck and not only among the bad guys, but also among the so-called good, afraid of having to bear the costs of the failure of this policy. The truth is that the balance of the budget and the progressive reduction of the debt stock cannot guarantee, on the one hand, a revival of the European economy and, on the other hand, respect for the institutional rules that must characterize a completed democracy. I do not say that, but the Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman says, who believes that the inclusion in the Constitution of the balance of the budget can lead to the dissolution of the social state. I would like to take this opportunity, among other things, to say that we certainly do not need a Parliamentary Budget Service to explain certain things; we have understood them alone, without technicians and experts in economics. The 5 Star Movement doesn't want to hear from the premier anymore Read words like: I confirm my commitment to being below 3% at the end of the year. The passage concerns an adjustment of 0.1%, which is absolutely within reach and which will not require particularly significant interventions, or words such as: The objectives set in the DEF are all attainable, provided there is political will and stability. Gentlemen, let's face it: the car has run out of gas, no matter how hard the throttle is pressed, it won't go anywhere. It is therefore time to throw away the mask and tell things as they really are: we are the victims of a colossal and gross mistake, which can only be resolved by a total change in the relationship between the Member States. It is for this reason that the 5 Star Movement commits this Government, with regard to the Stability and Growth Programme, to undertake, in the appropriate fora, a renegotiation of the European Treaties in order to achieve a new alliance between peoples aimed at the well-being of citizens and the strengthening of European governance, considering the opportunity to strengthen the role of the European Central Bank, so that it becomes a lender for public debts, being able to finance productive investments directly and issuing securities and urobonds. Remember: wandering is human, but persevering is diabolical! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u27	Senator D'Adda is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u28	Madam President, representative of the Government, colleagues, the 2013 Economy and Finance Document Update Note also has relevant data on labour and social security issues. Some elements are not elusive. For the current year, GDP is expected to fall by 1.7% (4 tenths more than expected). The new estimate of the above negative value implies an increase in the debt rate of 2 tenths compared to that set by the DEF of 2013. The increase in the deficit is due to the trend in revenue which, as we know, is less favourable than expected before April. The trend in expenditure is - on the other hand - positively in line with the estimates we had forecast. However, a series of timely and targeted interventions by the Government aim to maintain the value of the net borrowing rate to 3,0, in line with European commitments. These interventions, together with the improved forecasts for the years 2014-2017, see a return to GDP growth and, on the other hand, a gradual reduction in the debt rate. The country's dramatic labour market conditions, conditioned by macroeconomic dynamics, bring the unemployment rate to 12.2 for 2013 and 12.4 for 2014, values 6 tenths higher than the previous calculations. The forecast of a reduction in the unemployment rate to 11.4 for 2017 commits the Government, in compliance with the process of financial consolidation undertaken that has made it possible to close the excessive deficit procedure, to carry out a review of national and European economic policies in order to give increased priority and growth to employment. For the revival of the labour market, in line with the recommendations of the European Union, there are some government intentions on key issues. We highlight some of them: the reform of employment centres to reduce the phenomenon of dystonia between supply and demand; the amendments to Law No 92 of 2012, aimed at increasing the incoming flexibility; the implementation of the programme "Warranty for young people" or "Youth guarantee," starting in 2014. A special attention, which I have not heard here, is addressed to the data on the increase of poverty, in order to address the ongoing experimentation of the new Charter for social inclusion, preparatory to the definition of a national programme to combat absolute poverty, which is present in some European countries, but which has never existed and has never been carried out in Italy, which is the subject of a study by the Ministry of Labour and social policies to support the active integration of people and families. This program will allow to support about 220,000 people by 2014, especially in those areas of the country where poverty has reached levels that are no longer sustainable, as other colleagues have already mentioned. On the pension front, expenditure trends in relation to GDP are currently around 16%, a trend consistent with the forecasts, which in the long run allows to predict a clear counter-trend of Italy compared to most European countries, which will see the ratio of pension expenditure to GDP increase by 1.6 percentage points and the Italian one decrease by 0.9 around 2060. In this regard, let us not shy away from the need to suggest to the Government some opportunities that it would be useful to assess in this case. Let us first consider introducing financially sustainable flexibility into the pension system. Secondly, it is appropriate to consider this structural stability of the pension system also as an element of evaluation and reflection in order to have a greater awareness of the actual social repercussions that it will have in the long run and that could, in some way, allow us to make a different reasoning from the current, especially with regard to the younger generations who, having precarious jobs, will certainly have difficulties. We call on the Government to commit itself to the complete solution of the exodus problem and to the refinancing of social shock absorbers, with particular regard to those by way of derogation. As regards the system of active inclusion and, therefore, the fight against poverty, we want this system to be truly universal and therefore we want to be attentive to the individual rights and responsibilities that protect the weakest individuals, for example, the elderly and pensioners. In conclusion, let us not hide the difficulties we are facing, but let us note an innovative element present in the government's policy on the issues under consideration in the work and social policies. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u29	He is registered to speak Senator Marino Luigi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u30	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in these documents there is an index called "output gap" in English, which is the differential between actual GDP and potential GDP of a country which, with all due respect for economists and the government, is of relatively little interest to us. Similarly, we have little interest in most of the indices contained in the thousands and thousands of pages of this document. What interests us is a single index: GDP, the gross domestic product of the world and of our country, and it is on this issue that I will develop some considerations. The government, as well as all international observers, estimates global GDP growth to around 3.1 percent this year and around 3.8 percent for next year. Next year's global GDP is likely to be compounded by the risk of an increase in the costs of raw materials, financial costs and a growth of the developing countries more modest than in previous years, while a positive element is given that of a growth of the industrialized countries, except two: Spain and, worse than all, Italy. Our country has in fact a growth index, indeed, of decrease for this year of 1.7% compared to 1.1 percent, according to estimated by the Government, and for next year an increase-attention index of 1%. We are therefore in a recessive phase - it is said in the DEF, they all say - that lasts for five years and that in five years has made our country lose 8 points of GDP. The granting of credit, which in our country is much more stringent than in all other countries of the world, also acts negatively on this dynamic. The Government says that only from 2015 consumption would return to an acceptable level, increasing by 1%, but only, I repeat, since 2015. The net debt - as has been widely mentioned here, so it is useless for me to stress it too - is around 3.1 percent, which will be returned to 3%, with a primary surplus, good, of 2.4 percent, compared to an interest expenditure that is instead of 5.4 percent, with a difference, precisely, of 3%. So, ladies and gentlemen, we must believe in growth; we must have confidence in growth, but we must have confidence in it. We have already said on another occasion that this Government really has only one strong shot in the barrel, a shot that must be shot by centering the target, and this target is the law of stability. Despite the great limits of public finance, the law of stability must allow the change of gear, it must allow the lever to reverse the trend, it must allow to move from the consolidation - which has been realized with great sacrifices in the period of the Monti Government and in these first months of the Letta Government - to a phase of revival. We have supported and will support loyally - which does not mean without highlighting elements of criticality - the Letta Government, which we believe has already taken measures that go in the right direction and that I will not be here to list, because they are known, that start from the release of payments of the public administration in order to arrive obviously to the tax concessions and what happened regarding the relaxation of the tax pressure. But all this - and I repeat this: everything that goes in the right direction - produces, according to the Government itself, an increase in gross domestic product of 0.1%: that is, everything that we have done, and that has been approved in this House in terms of relaunching the economy, is worth 0.1% in the current year and probably - it still supports the Government - something more for 2014. If we add the payment of the commercial debts of the public administration we arrive in 2014 - says the same Government - to 1%. Then - and I turn to the government - we would like to understand. We would like to understand whether the Government has made too conservative estimates by predicting growth for the next year of 1% starting from about 1% only because it pays commercial debts, or if the Government believes that growth depends only on its own action and not, instead, on the fact that it sets the economy in motion and therefore, if it sets the economy in motion, it will have a growth of more than 1%, or if the Government overestimates the impact on the GDP of the dynamics of its actions starting from that, precisely, on the payment of debts of the public administration. We would like to understand if the Government believes that in its actions there are incentives not for its own growth, derived only and exclusively from the grafting of public resources into the economy, but there are also the stimuli so that the productive apparatus can allow the growth of the country. We, then, remain attached to the basic objectives of our action and our policy. Therefore, we urge the Government to proceed with structural reforms and not adjustments, to reduce the tax burden on labour and production, to reduce in quantity and to increase in quality public expenditure. We are convinced that despite everything, the Letta Government and this majority, in stability, but in a stability that is not revolted, can ferry the country beyond the recession. 2014 for us must be the year of the reboot of the productive system of the Country and because the problem is not the direction of march, it is not the machine that you use (because the machine that you are using is the right one), but it is the quantity of fuel, the amount of resources that are put in play, and because the recovery is realized increasing the competitiveness of our enterprises, we invite the Government to support in the law of stability strongly the productive apparatus of the Country, committing substantial quotas of resources, more than those that through indiscretions have appeared in the newspapers, to reduce the tax wedge, to reduce the costs borne by the enterprise, to be more competitive, to depend less on the credit, to be more internationalized. Only in this way will we be able to give a strong boost to production and consumption, only in this way will we be able to reverse the direction of the road, only in this way will we be able to give impetus to the revival. It has already been said and I repeat: in 7 years we have lost more than 15% of our production potential; in 23 years we have fallen from 5.5% to 3.5% of world production. We fill our mouths in every circumstance by saying that we are still the second manufacture in Europe, while instead there is a process of deindustrialization of our country. And without competitive companies, without robust companies, you don't generate growth, you don't support welfare, there's no public finance that holds, they don't grow... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Marino. MARINO Luigi (SCPI). ...and there is no widening of solidarity. I have concluded, Madam President. Finally, I would like to ask the Government to add to the draft laws related to the Economic and Financial Document also the annual law on competition and liberalisations and new rules to make the labour market even more flexible in our country. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u31	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, we have great respect for the Minister of Health, and yet we believe that we must address you today, as a representative of the Government, but in particular of the Minister of Economic Affairs, who is now aware that more Via XX Settembre prevails, in the choice of health policies, than Lungotevere Ripa, because we have an action, in the context of our Health, which seems increasingly oriented by the economic needs: a sort of commissioning of the Ministry of Health by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, then in its turn by Europe, which dictates the rules to which we must necessarily submit in compliance with the constraints of the fiscal compact. However, today I believe it is the right opportunity to ask the government, above all, for words of truth. I fully agree with the title in which the DEF contains the promises and commitments relating to health welfare policies: Responding to the major challenges of health and care. Of course, we all have great awareness that within welfare policies and within the National Health Service that from Law No. 833 of 1978 to today we have been able to build there is the distinctive figure of a sensitivity, of a culture, I would like to say of those extraordinary principles of social cohesion and social solidarity that are enclosed in the universality of the health system. However, we must get out of the misunderstanding, and the Government must be close to us in this commitment, because whenever we speak the language of truth to the country on a very delicate subject (and we do well to speak the language of truth in institutional fora, in Parliament and not in conferences) controversy opens up and conditions of opposition are created, even of an ideological type. In September 2012, Prime Minister Monti said: Our National Health System, of which we are proud, may not be guaranteed unless new ways of financing are identified. It is a statement that President Monti, with the absolute authority of his function and competence, issued at a scientific conference. The Minister of Health Lorenzin, on September 25, resumes that concept and states that Health has already given: from 2011 to 2015 it paid about 22 billion euros. Senator Bianco, for his part and with great punctuality, a few minutes ago, speaking on the same subject, referred to this indiscriminate policy of cuts, which, of course, caused many problems. What are the problems caused by the policy of cuts, which in turn are caused by the need to contain expenditure? Waiting lists, non-regional passive mobility, ahinoi mainly of a South that still has to go to chase the right to health by migrating to the North, with an infrastructural gap that is not reflected in the criteria of repartition of the National Health Fund, Mr. Deputy Minister. Again: a quarter of health spending is directly supported by Italian citizens, without levels of mediation (30 billion euros). He also said Francesco Massicci, intervening the other day in the Chamber of Deputies in the context of the cognitive survey on the sustainability of the system (which we in the 12th Commission in the Senate are doing commendably), that citizens pay 3 billion euros of tickets. Again: the shortage of staff (we have also talked about it these days during the examination of the measure on public administration), the precarious in Health, the constantly increasing number of people who in this country no longer even have the economic resources to cure themselves. This is the war bulletin that - as we know - accompanies the times of the crisis, but which in fact determines a situation of deep vulneration of the principle of universality that we continue to consider the distinctive element of our Health. Then, in the DEF Update Note the principle seems to apply: no longer a universal health, but a selective health and welfare. I read in the Note: '... we need to rethink a model of assistance aimed at guaranteeing non-conditional benefits, aimed mainly at those who actually need them' (as if until now there had been someone who had access to health services that he did not need). I believe that on these points the Government should, with greater punctuality and precision, provide elements of reassurance. Let us be clear: with a sense of responsibility we have expressed a positive opinion in the Health Commission, because we believe that the effort must be of the Government and alongside the Government Parliament must deepen all its energy, resources and support to overcome the dramatic times of the crisis. However, we must try to give a clear and timely response, at least to reverse this trend. If then, reading the agencies, I discover that Vice Minister Fassina said yesterday that even in the law of stability there might be further cuts concerning Health, then my concern becomes a condition of alarm. And since I think that the conditions of alarm must be governed with responsibility, I would like to know from the Government what kind of intervention we want to do on the health side, which represents one of the most social interest soils, to avoid that, from being the health sector an important cornerstone of our democracy, on which we have built social cohesion, it becomes the place of a situation of discollation and inequality and makes to record absolutely unbearable situations for a civil country. This is the question I ask and the point around which I believe we have a duty to give precise and precise assurances to the country, and not only to patients, who are the first to have to endure the discomfort and difficulties encountered in our times... PRESIDENT. Please conclude, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (PdL). ...but - let me say - also to all that extensive audience of health professionals who, on the side of health policy, has praisedly transformed their professional activity into a real mission and that probably ends up being even little considered by the policies of support to the sectors of reference. In this context, I believe that it is worth regaining strength for a health government that fights corruption and waste, which points to the principles of governance to deliver efficient, effective and appropriate models, but also fair and ethically acceptable, overcoming the very serious situation we have been experiencing for some time now. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and SCpI groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u33	Senator Tomaselli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, let us hold this debate on the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document a few days away, I would like to say a few hours away from the presentation of the Stability Act. I believe that this discussion in the following, and therefore in the adoption of a resolution that will come to the end of our work, should somehow anticipate, in broad outline, of course, the content that we will find in the Stability Act for 2014. We are in the presence of an Update Note that tells the truth. I do not share some appreciations that some of my colleagues in the minority groups have been presented here, as if there were some kind of exaltation in this document of the results achieved or of defiance of the dramatic economic and financial situation of our country. No, this isn't there. There is full awareness of the difficulties of our country, but there is also the great awareness that we are probably stopping a decline and a recession that in recent months and years has led to a upheaval, a real devastation of the social, economic, productive and industrial fabric of our country. This descent is coming to an end, and there is a possible economic and productive recovery which, I believe, the Government and Parliament have a duty to ensure that it is fully intercepted. Our discussion and the content of the next law of stability must in some way focus on the fundamental axes of these next appointments. First of all, it is a question of enhancing the factors of competitiveness and productivity in our country, directing them clearly towards growth and the revival of employment. On the other hand, it is a question of fueling the recovery, the revival of domestic consumption, which in recent months and years has fallen heavily. In front of us we have dramatic data that give the sign of the epochal crisis that we are experiencing, the most serious from the post-war period to today, since the decrease in consumption even intercesses the food consumption of the families or the medical expenses. In this direction the announced interventions agreed with the social forces go in this direction. Mr Uras called for full involvement: we all agree. I believe that the Government, beginning with the listening started in the past hours with the trade unions and business organizations (yesterday Confindustria and tomorrow with Rete Imprese Italia, therefore with the small and medium-sized enterprise), wants to identify shared interventions aimed at reducing the cost of labour, operating on the so-called tax wedge, of which workers can benefit on the one hand to feed a recovery of consumption and, on the other, the system of enterprises to support the revival in terms of competitiveness and garrison of the national and international markets. In this sense, the choices that the Government is preparing to make in these hours are aimed at confirming not only that the closure of the infringement procedure for reaching the 3% limit in the deficit-GDP ratio is an objective that this Government and the entire country want to maintain, but that this garrison of seriousness and credibility regarding interventions that in recent years have been adopted in continuity for the consolidation of public finances represents a point of no return for our country. In fact, it is not simply a matter of credibility achieved by the Italy system; it is a question of considering that, through the credibility of the country system, this can also bring benefits in terms of reducing interest and recognising a seriousness of the country system, also in order to claim - on which, I believe, the next semester under Italian leadership will have to represent the turning point - different policies of the European Union itself, aimed at putting at the centre interventions to support growth and employment more courageous and less tied simply to financial mechanisms. In this sense, therefore, the support of the Democratic Party is full and convinced, because the great sacrifices supported by Italians in recent years do not deserve to be dispersed in any way. For what they have endured in these years, Italians deserve to be able to achieve the objective of a net recovery of growth, of a revival of employment, so that the role of our country in the international assembly is fully recovered. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Onghia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u36	Madam President, before we deal with the part of the Economic and Financial Document which deals specifically with energy and the environment, I would like to make a small comment, because the main theme of the Note that has been proposed is: There's no money. Since this whining is not only now that there is a budget constraint on balance (which is not a balance, why, if I allow you to overtake 3%, what the hell are we talking about?), then let's do the math and try to figure out why there's no money, and where it's gone. From 1980 to 2011, the calculations show that we spent 2.141 billion interest on debt, that is, we fed a parasitic income, because the holders of debt take advantage of a remuneration of the money invested without doing anything: they sit there and take their coupon. Of this money, 484 billion was the balance sheet surplus, that is, how much remains in my cash register after at the end of the year I paid everything I had to pay and do the bills. It means that in the end all the taxes that we strangled pay produce something: they would produce a good budget surplus which, however, is swallowed up in the sea of interest on the debt. So when you tell us there's no money, there's actually a place to get your hands on, and that's what I said before. Let us now talk about the proposals and guidelines that the Government would like to present with regard to energy and the environment. In particular, it's great to read - because in one page you say one thing and three pages later you go into contradiction; we'd at least ask you to reread what you've written, just to avoid making these fools out! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] -things like a five-year plan of the Soviet Union. We are talking about support for the steel industry: I do not know why we continue to beat the steel industry. I would like to understand how we want to be competitive in the steel industry with countries where labour costs are lower, the cost of supplying raw materials is lower and there are no externalities due to the environment, i.e. they pollute as they please. Clearly it is impossible: that is the answer. We insist, however, that we continue to try to support the steel industry. Why do we want to keep doing favors for someone in Taranto? The answer was not received. Why do raw materials cost more? Because the coal, which serves in the blast furnaces, we do not take it from us; the coal of Sulcis we pull out, but so, because it is of bad quality! We take it "near": Australia, China (when they still gave it to us), South Africa, Brazil. It is clear then that only for transport we spend a shot of money! What about iron ore? From the same places. On the other hand, the dark one doesn't, because that junk, which only serves to promote the blast furnace process, we do. It is then clear that we will have to stop investing rivers of money in trying to support industrial structures that do not work. So when you ask us where the money is, the money is there for example, because the steel industry swallows it. You say he is a private investor: yes, but all negative externalities, and how pollution we pay for them. In the single environmental text there was written "the polluter pays": very well, with one of the last decrees we changed it for a moment: "the polluter pays if he can stay in it with the money". [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Well, since no one is in it with the money, we have found who pays: always the Italian citizen. As far as the energy strategy is concerned, we continue to say that we must focus on renewables, but in the meantime we are talking about fossil fuels. For example, the national energy strategy plans to go to all oil, but there is one reason: if we did not aim for oil, if we consumed less, we would lose excise duties on oil and then open a hole in the state accounts. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So let's face it, you can't give up oil because you'd give up some revenue. Either you come up with something to find an excise duty on the sun, or we have a problem! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I would like to conclude by referring to the Bonifications. In fact - unbelievable but true - there is talk of 20 million for the reclamation of sites of national interest. Actually, 20 million is nothing! However, later it is said that it would be better to increase this appropriation to 100 million. I emphasize, however, that for a single site - the ACNA of Cengio - 400 million were spent, of which 253 were to put the Piedmont Region. That is 2.5 times the ceiling that you provide for. I'm talking about only one site, but there are 53, some of which have been downgraded to sites of regional interest because so maybe the Region thinks about it; too bad that the Regions are covered by debts up to the head (I should stretch out my hand even more, but I can't!); this means that no one will pay for the bonifications. There's worse, you've also made a transaction (not in this DEF, but before). In fact, to those who pollute you said: Give me a little, a few, damned and right away, and then that's it, we're good. In fact, in Brindisi the money gathered by the companies that have polluted is absolutely not enough to make the reclamation; the one who pays is still the State! In the DEF you then outline a whole series of interventions that actually open chasms; that is, not only do you not put money in it but you will have to put it there later. For this reason, the one under consideration is a counter-DEF: in fact, thinking you don't spend, you spend much more! That is what you are trying to propose. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Since I still have some time, I'm going back to the energy strategy. Another of the gems is to focus on the diversification of sources of supply. We have the sun and therefore we could also make the bill: covering photovoltaic panels only the city of Milan, come out 6 gigawatts of installed power; with the coefficient of use of a sixth means a full gigawatt, that is a megacentre of 1,000 megawatts (one of those nuclear ones, that fortunately have not been realized) that, just to understand, would be at zero cost. On the other hand, there is the famous Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP), which is very controversial, which has now slipped. What's the TAP for? This has not come! In fact, it does not serve European supply, since it will bring 10 billion cubic metres of gas, while Europe consumes 500 cubic metres of gas; that means 1 out of 50, 2%, and so it seems to me that it does not contribute. We, however, already have three pipelines that bring us methane, and they are not even 100% employed. Therefore, the argument that we need more gas is not true either, because we need more gas. However, we consume about 100 billion cubic metres, or rather we buy them because, thanks to prudent policies, we are shareholders of the ENI (so, the sharp policy of the ENI reverberates on the state's profits for that 20 percent). We have decided to make contracts of 100 billion cubic meters, for which the ENI does not say how much it pays (but then we pay the bill), but we need 70; therefore, we must take 30 - take or pay - but we do not know where to put, but we must bring them here. It will then be necessary to spend money (also public contributions, because no private person has the possibility to do so), to find storage sites for this natural gas or methane gas. Therefore, the TAP is also another negative externality that will open a further hole in the public accounts, since all negative externalities and all environmental pollution must be paid by the community. It is thought that, however, the private in some way is called to answer, but in reality you can never establish a causal link. In Lake Pertusillo, in Basilicata, a contamination with hydrocarbons was found: Assominary, however, has come to tell us that these are natural oil outbursts (as happens in Kuwait, a dig and come out the spout!). Well, since there is no causal link, the result is that the ENI does not respond and therefore pays the community directly or pays in the sense that then people get sick from the resulting diseases: in fact, I remember that oil is a carcinogen. So, however, new spending chapters are still open: all hidden, but then they come out. Therefore, the DEF could be better written, without even doing too much work. Try to do a little more! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u38	Madam President, the document that we are preparing to consider, and therefore I also believe in voting through a majority resolution, examines with absolute transparency the dynamics of our economy and the prospects that await us. It is clear that we cannot be content with the forecasts and we must certainly give precise guidelines to government action. Our country, in my opinion, needs a few, but certain actions. Of course, the reduction in the tax burden, which frees up resources for citizens and businesses to power, on the one hand, to increase consumption and, on the other hand, to improve investment and production. The country then certainly needs a better relationship between the public sector and the private sector, and the effort that has been made to dedicate a measure of great economic importance to the payment of the debts of the public administration to the enterprises must be completed, meanwhile giving full implementation to that measure, and then providing for a further release of resources for what this type of intervention can still require. There is no doubt that the size of our country must also be improved in the harmonisation of the European tax burden. Today we find a competitive gap with other countries (even in many countries of the European Union) resulting from an excess of tax and contributory pressure and, therefore, of labour costs in our country. Therefore, European integration policies certainly also go through this mechanism. There is no doubt that there are sectors of our economy for which we are calling for targeted and specific action. Of course, private and public buildings must be re-launched: construction has always been the driving force behind our economy. In this sense, the national building heritage must be redeveloped in the light of fundamental principles such as safety, energy efficiency and architectural quality. Just as the ability of our country to spend and invest in public infrastructure must be recovered. Statistics, in fact, say that in recent years this item has been significantly reduced. A different and new mechanism should also be devised in view of certain budgetary policies: in particular, the reduction of public debt. On this subject we have already heard some proposals from the political forces (our own, in particular, has put this issue on the table several times), but we have also heard the proposals of the Minister for Economic Affairs. We expect, as soon as possible, a proposal aimed at reducing the stock of public debt through the exploitation of the available assets of the State and of the entire public sector, aimed at passing, not through a sale, but through a enhancement aimed at reducing the stock of public debt in the immediate future (which also means reducing the expenditure on interest). Italy, as demonstrated also by the data of the DEF, is already one of the most virtuous countries from the point of view of the primary surplus; an operation of this type would certainly make it even more virtuous, but would bring a great benefit to the annual income account of the Country. Therefore, a whole series of interventions that we will allow ourselves to further urge the government and that we are sure that the government will want to present as soon as possible, along with the other measures that it has said today that it wants to adopt, first of all, the return of the deficit-GDP ratio below the 3% threshold. It is true that we have used a margin of less than 3% in recent months, but - I repeat - we have done so above all for important measures such as saving companies. This, however, requires a return, and also the need to curb the temptation of public spending to find corresponding funding in increasing the tax burden. On this side there has been some small failure - we must recognize it - in the last decrees. We want to draw the Government's attention so that this does not happen anymore: to increase some sectors of the tax burden in order to reduce others means to make choices of fiscal policy; to increase some aspects of the tax burden in order to feed expenditure means to return to a road of the past, which has led us to the negative evidence to which today we must shelter through the policy of strict public finances. With all these considerations, therefore, we can only appreciate what is contained in the Document for our attention. This will be much better said by Senator Azzollini in his explanation of vote on the majority resolution that we have tabled. In this motion for a resolution there are many points that have been raised. I have tried to condense some of them, and above all to focus on those which, as a political party, are particularly important to us, first of all, as I said, the reduction of the tax burden, the relaunch of certain productive sectors and, of course, the reduction of public debt. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tonini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u40	Madam President, government representatives, fellow senators, the Economic and Finance Document and the Update Note are first and foremost a photograph of the country's economic situation and public spending. What emerges from the DEF is not, as has been said by all the speakers, a positive photograph, but it is a photograph that fills us with concern and, in some ways, even anguish with regard to the overall situation of the country's economy; it fills us with concern also with regard to the structure of our public spending. Ours is a great expense (800 billion euros), worthy of a great civil country, such as Italy is. Already in the photography (even in the trend, not only in the programmatic) of public spending there is a signal, that I want to grasp, of great importance: the overall reduction of the cost of the machine. Much has been done in this direction in recent years and the Economic and Financial Document records it, with a forecast for which from 19 points of GDP we go around 17; there is, therefore, a tendency to reduce the cost of the machine, which is a very positive fact. Then there is a stability, with some elements of growth, of social spending (a total of 27% of GDP), but with a fundamental problem, relating to its quality: if the data on social inequality in the country are so alarming, it means that 27 points of GDP (which from a quantitative point of view are many, are from a large European civil country) are obviously not effective; therefore, there is a problem concerning the quality of this expenditure, on which we need to intervene. Finally, there is too much interest expenditure (5 points of GDP) and a dramaticly low - it is the most worrying and disturbing element of this picture - investment expenditure, with a declining trend, which is the most worrying element. By pulling a line and making a summary, it is a great expense, but it is not able to be in a sufficient way neither factor of economic efficiency, economic growth of the country (which in fact does not grow) nor element of social equality, because unfortunately also the inequalities grow. This is not the case with ordinary maintenance, but only with reforms, i.e. structural measures to deal with the underlying problems of this expenditure. Here then we see the other part of the DEF and the Update Note, which is yes a photograph, but it is also a program. It is a difficult programme, because growth must be restarted, making social equality and being within the constraints that are necessary for our country, starting with the 3% constraint, which is assumed as a fundamental element, not questionable, in order to achieve the objective of structural budget balance, on which we have committed ourselves with the rest of Europe. I believe that the four policy points of the DEF - as I summarize them - can achieve this quadrature of the circle between growth and equality by being within the budgetary constraints, if of course the Government and the majority will be engaged in a disciplined way in achieving them. Allow me to make one political point about the relationship between the parties. I saw that the secretary of the PdL Alfano, vice-president of the Council, said: We are committed to applying all the points of the PdL programme. I would simply like to say to him that in order to apply all the points of his programme, first we must win the elections. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We didn't win the election, we know we didn't win them, but they didn't win them either. Even Mrs Merkel could not afford to say such a thing by launching consultations to form a government. We must make a compromise between ours and your policy points, which must be upwards and not downwards, and must look at the interests of the country and not at the electoral flags of these and those. Of the four points contained in the DEF on which you can work with commitment and discipline, the first is then the tax issue. The DEF says clear words in response to the European Commission's recommendation: first of all there is work and business; then we wait for the law of stability to strike a strong blow in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group]] to reduce the tax burden on labour and business. Secondly, we need to recover quality and efficiency margins through the spending review. There are very clear and very strong words on this in the motion for a resolution. The spending review is not done with camouflaged linear cuts, but with a medium-term program, which no longer distinguishes between remodulating expenditure and non-modulating expenditure, which tackles and puts the scalpel in non-modulating spending, changing the laws when they need to be changed, changing contracts when they need to be changed and that has to rejustify the expense of each euro. This is the famous zero budget principle: every single euro must be re-justified, within an industrial plan of public spending as a whole, and sector by sector, I would like to say office by office. It's too important and too serious. [[The microphone automatically switches off]] to be entrusted only to a supertechnician: it takes politics and it requires that in every single Ministry there is someone who assumes this as a fundamental objective. I would like to conclude by quoting two other issues. We certainly need to reduce the debt. My fellow Senators of the 5 Star Movement said something sacrosanct: how beautiful Italy would be with the primary surplus, if we didn't have the debt! Allow me to say that this is a bit of a statement at Max Catalano. It is clear that we would be much better off if there were no debt: it is much better not to have the debts than to have them; unfortunately we have them, and we must reduce them with the primary surplus and with the valorization of the heritage. Finally, last point: we need to make a clear speech with Europe. I think we will talk about this in the next few days, if the President of the Council comes to the Senate, when we talk about the Italian Presidency of the European Union. We need a growth compact, that is, a growth pact for growth, to see first of all in the euro area and in its fiscal and budgetary capacity the instrument to be accompanied by a balanced budget, to which individual states must be kept at a political stage of economic expansion by the Union as a whole. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Tonini. TONINI (PD). This is the program that the DEF gives us: a program to which we must work together with conviction. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u41	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u42	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u43	Madam President, just a few lines to comment on a debate that has been very rich and articulate. I think that the update of the DEF takes into account a situation in our country, and it does so in a realistic way, also in the hardness of the numbers it brings, and in the fact that it clearly recognizes that the forecasts, unfortunately, have deteriorated during 2013. I believe that this is the starting point - and I say this with friendship to my colleagues in the Groups who have spoken with great criticism - not an attitude of further negativeization of the situation. The situation is in fact already very negative and it is not necessary to load it: therefore, we should avoid jokes like those we have heard in some interventions, objectively of bad taste. I believe that it would be more useful - and that is what I am saying - if this House were to commit all the groups, of course with their visions and proposals, to take concrete action against the difficulty of building, in a framework that has deteriorated precisely this year, the roads and proposals that can be put into practice to get out of the situation. I believe that we must also recover a sense of national sharing of the hardness of this challenge that the DEF puts before us in all its difficulties. To try to get out of the long, hard season of budgetary constraints, which we unfortunately know is not over, because we still have to measure ourselves with the deficit-GDP ratio and we still have to measure ourselves with the debt reduction, intervening with structural reforms and interventions. We must engage in this policy, which has characterized the tough season of budgetary constraints (which we must continue, however), a policy for growth. It is here, then, that I think it would be really important to recover, as I said, that dimension of national sharing in order to face and overcome this challenge, starting from the next law of stability; that is, reading the DEF, but in reality looking immediately at the law of stability and realizing, as has been said well also in some interventions, an involvement of the whole country and of the institutions: the Parliament first and the Government, of course, but also all the local institutions (I think of the local authorities and the Regions) and also the social partners (justly, in these days the Government is doing all this), so that this malaise, this crisis and this discouragement of the country become - instead - pride of measuring themselves with proposals, participation and ability to go forward. We believe - as the motion for a resolution will say - that the law of stability cannot be any ordinary law: it must contain this spirit, this desire to share, of course reducing the tax burden on labour and investment - I quote only the securities - and by implementing policies to revive in all sectors. The DEF rightly presents six links on the various sectors: industrial policies, green economy, agri-food policies, the Mezzogiorno, infrastructure and simplification. There we must intervene forcefully and with proposals. We also need to take action on the relaxation of the Stability Pact in order to achieve the investments of the municipalities in the territory. Finally, action must be taken to achieve that twofold action on tax delegation, on the one hand, and on the reduction of inefficiencies and waste of public expenditure on the other, which can also create resources to make these policies effective. I conclude by saying that, if we read the DEF in this key, if we commit ourselves and the whole country, starting with the Government, in this horality of action to make the law of stability the first step of a new policy, I think we will have read the DEF well and we will also have made a contribution to our country. I say this in a metaphorical way: it is up to everyone to bring some petrol to this car that is now declared stationary and immobile, because if it remains so they would actually pay people, families, and we cannot really afford it. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u44	I would like to inform the Assembly that, in addition to the motion for a resolution No 1 by Senator Uras and others, motions for resolutions No 2 by Senators Bitonci and others, No 3, by Senator Molinari and others, and No 4 by Senators Zanda, Schifani, Susta, Ferrara Mario and Zeller, whose texts are available to all colleagues. I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to indicate which of the motions for resolutions that have been tabled, the Government intends to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u45	Madam President, the Government accepts motion for a resolution No 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u46	Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for resolution No 4, signed by Senators Zanda, Schifani, Susta, Ferrara Mario and Zeller, the one-hour deadline for tabling any amendments referred to it starts from this moment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u47	Madam President, the debate on the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document allows us to make some comments on the framework of national public finance, but also on what our country needs to improve this framework and, overall, the national economic system. (18.27) (Following Mr CASERO, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance). To think that public finance is disconnected from the development of the real economy is an illusion and we need to see an interconnection between the two systems and try to start from some data to understand how to overall improve the system. Certainly, the overall international and national framework, with a large contraction in consumption and the European economy, has led to an overall deterioration of data. Being able to achieve the public finance objectives set in Europe - I am referring to maintaining the 3% target in the deficit ratio - GDP at a time when there is a large contraction in GDP (you have seen the data presented in the document) - is certainly a demanding action that has led to the need to ask for sacrifices from citizens and to make operations to contain public expenditure. The goal achieved with the exit from the infringement procedure is certainly very important, that we must continue to pursue: our country this year and in the following years intends to maintain the European commitments made. The achievement of this objective has enabled us to take a number of very useful and necessary initiatives in this economic context. There has been talk of the payment of public debt. It is a fundamental measure for the economic development of the country; it was impossible that in a country with a modern and competitive economy there would be a public administration that would pay so late its debts creating a serious state of crisis for companies. I think this measure will have a strong impact on the economic development and growth of our country. The figure has been clearly entered in a conservative way, we will then see what the actual GDP trend will be. I would like to refer again to the provisions on the financing of the Integration Fund. There is indeed a social problem linked to the economic and industrial crisis, and one of the needs and needs of the Government of a country is represented precisely by the financing of the Cassa Integrazione and social shock absorbers, so that the most unfortunate people can have economic support at a time of crisis. I would remind you that the exit from the infringement procedure has enabled us to finance a whole series of measures to support the development of the industrial system: I quote, for example, the ecobonus system, which has provided a tax stimulus for the development of businesses. Those I mentioned are just some of the main measures taken in recent months by the Government in the current economic framework. The analysis of the overall picture allows us to say what our country needs in order to improve the situation. Surely, as it has been emphasized also in some interventions - I think, for example, to that of Senator Luigi Marino, but also of other senators - if you do not return to grow the Country in order to get out of this recessive moment, returning the gross domestic product to a positive level, surely all the other data will follow this negative trend. It is therefore necessary that the measures adopted under the Stability Act and those that will be taken in the future are all linked to growth, and basically to the economic growth of Italy, through a strong investment in the manufacturing sector. In particular, it is a question of intervening mainly in two areas: work and enterprise. This must be the must that must accompany our fiscal and economic policies in the coming year. Only through the development of work and enterprise can Italy emerge from the current situation. How? Through a series of fiscal and economic policy interventions that are capable of supporting this development. I spoke, first of all, of fiscal policy, because it is necessary, through the reduction of taxation, to tax labour and businesses; it is one of the things that the Government is preparing to do, however, always trying to intervene in the context of an overall economic framework of commitments made at European level. We must not forget, in fact, this priority objective which, as I said, has involved so many sacrifices for Italians and which cannot therefore be abandoned at this stage. It is therefore a matter of investing in this direction. As I said, we must first adopt targeted tax policies on work and business, as well as economic policies aimed at supporting investment. A country grows through this kind of action, which must become the fundamental elements of the stability law. As far as resources are concerned, this must be found through careful budgetary policy action. Spending review has been mentioned: we must continue through a redevelopment of expenditure and a definition of resources to be allocated to the reduction of taxation and to new investments. Through the application of the elements contained in the tax delegation, which we hope will also be quickly approved by this branch of Parliament, we will also be able to achieve more effective action in the fight against evasion, which, as has been said, represents one of the weaknesses of our overall public economic system. The fight against evasion must continue and be encouraged, including through the most modern telematic systems. The tax delegation refers to this and to the possibility to intervene more forcefully in this respect. I think that from the fight against evasion resources can come to be allocated then - according to the same tax delegation - to the reduction of the tax burden on citizens who already pay taxes in an honest way. This can be achieved through a system of simplification that leads to simplification, precisely, the tax system, making it simpler, fairer and more modern. We believe that from this resources can be derived to be allocated to the objectives we have given ourselves. The second issue is debt. Much has been said in this debate about the problem of debt, another serious issue affecting national public finances. If on the deficit front our country has certainly achieved positive results (let's remember that in this economic phase keeping the commitments made in Europe is definitely complex and difficult), regarding the debt it is necessary to do more: it is necessary to try to valorize in the best possible way the public assets that decreasing would decrease the same debt. This is another of the political actions that will have to be pursued in the field of economic policy in the coming months; we will have to continue on this path. A third theme is to try to re-launch growth through a series of reforms. Many are already attached to the documents today to our examination: the reform system must continue, it must be developed and it must try to revive the excellence of our country. I have heard that in his reply the rapporteur has supported the need to invest in our country and in the excellence of our country: surely from this stage you can also come out trying to trust everything that is positive in our country, trying to create stimuli, but also providing the tools to make this possible through a great system of reforms that favor enterprise and work. As I said at the beginning of my speech, only by strongly stimulating enterprise and work can we succeed in achieving results, trying - as I said before - to stimulate everything that is positive in our country. It means intervening on competitiveness, internationalization, it means intervening on the credit and liquidity of companies, another critical issue at this time in Italy. One of the objectives of the Government and Parliament is to grant more funds to the economic system to enable it to compete globally. It also means intervening on local authorities in order to give them - as the President of the Council said in his speech - more resources to carry out investment actions, while at the same time asking them to intervene on expenditure in order to reduce part of the unproductive historical expenditure and to devote it to investment. The investments of local authorities are very productive and we must try to intervene on that. It has also been said that we must try to spend money in Europe to support growth: Europe does not just make budgetary policies, but genuine policies to support growth. This, as has been said in the debate, is one of the objectives of the current Government: we must try to ensure that Europe stimulates growth in our country, is a supporter of growth and begins to change some policies that have already been launched, starting with stronger action by the European Bank to pursue with actions to harmonise fiscal policies that must lead Europe to become a continent, a whole of nations that have shared and common economic policies and not just fiscal policies. I think that we must move on to these lines and we can continue to ensure that the data contained in the Update Note under consideration - which, as has been said, photograph the current situation - can be improved as early as next year. [[Applause from Senators Albertini, Sangalli and Santini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u48	We shall then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u51	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last Wednesday the fate of this country was hanging by a thread. A thread so thin that, if broken, it would have had unimaginable consequences: it would have sent in smoke the laborious work carried out so far, that it will allow us - in our opinion - to get out of a deep and exhausting crisis starting us towards a gradual recovery. Fortunately, common sense, responsibility and awareness have prevailed that the good of the country is a priority and that no interest of part or person can interfere on this priority. And on how to continue I can only subscribe to the words just said by Senator Tonini. In fact, the confidence that we hope to be more convinced today must finally guarantee that effective political stability that is essential to relaunch the economy: the long-awaited stability that the European Union also requires us and that is the starting point for starting and completing all those structural reforms that the Deputy Minister has just mentioned and which our country needs, but which is also an element of credibility for national and international investors. The DEF Update Note reviews the macroeconomic and public finance forecasts for the current year and subsequent years until 2017. It is therefore an important document, because it takes a picture of the state in which the government has taken its course for a few months and gives us an update on the ongoing reform actions or to be introduced in the future in response to the recommendations received by the Council of the European Union following the closure of the infringement procedure for excessive deficits. In particular, it confirms that the recovery can start, assuming that a decrease in GDP is expected for the current year. This deterioration, as reported, is certainly due to the evolution of revenues that are affected by the dynamics of less favourable growth and the heavy crisis in consumption. In this regard, we have appreciated the willingness of the Government to take urgent measures to bring back the debt of 2013 to the 3% threshold (of course we hope that what appeared on some agency today is indeed a fugue of unfounded news) in order to prevent Brussels from reopening the infringement procedure against Italy due to excessive deficits and not to lose those margins of flexibility on which we can count today. A comforting figure is that of structural debt which, according to the policy framework, nevertheless tends towards balance from 2015. For 2014, the Note confirms the prospects for recovery of economic activity, although to a lesser extent than the April DEF estimates, thanks in particular to the injection of liquidity resulting from the measure relating to the acceleration of the payment of public administration debts to companies that, according to the reported data, would already have reached the sum of approximately 17 billion euros of payments made. The commitment is to reach the total figure of 50 billion in order to inject liquidity into the business system and to promote the recovery of investments, production and above all to restart a credit policy. And on that I subscribe to what the Deputy Minister has just said. The Government and Parliament, despite the continuing turbulence, have very determinedly put in place a number of useful interventions over the last few months. Emergency situations such as those relating to the environment have arisen; provisions have been made for the benefit of the economy (such as the payment of debts owed by the public administration); the resources of the Social Fund for employment and training have been increased for the financing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation (and we hope, in a few hours' time from the Council of Ministers, that similar provision has also been made for the period from now to the end of the year); the facilities, important for families, on building renovations and on energy redevelopment, have been extended, and from the point of view of the regulations, there has been intervention in the building sector, which is certainly a driving economic sector in a country such as Italy, which must be restarted. This has been done, however, always maintaining a neutral impact on the budget (of this it must be acknowledged to the Government), using mainly resources deriving from the decrease of the expenditures. I have mentioned only a few of the measures taken for the sake of the economy of the times, but I am pleased to point out that they are consistent and in line with the six recommendations of the European Union. These measures are only the beginning of a path which, however, remains obstacles. First of all, it is that of our public debt, as has also been pointed out by others, which unfortunately does not mention diminishing. Interest payments are likely to continue to increase, although rates are lower than in the last two years. It is absolutely necessary to attack this debt, and quickly. We must therefore insist on the therapy proposed by the Government to find sufficient resources: spending review and valorization and disposal of public assets. Rationalize where necessary and also cut unproductive spending: a cut that needs to be studied and done with care, ensuring however the fundamental functions and protecting the weakest categories. A cut that certainly takes time, just as it takes time the plan of disposal and valorization of the real estate already started by the Government. We therefore hope, in view of the urgency, that these processes will not be slowed down and that there will always be careful and constant monitoring, as is happening with the payment of the debts arrears of the public administration. We hope that the Ministry, with the same diligence with which it is verifying the payment of arrears, will verify the progress of the already initiated plan of discharge, obviously finalizing it to the fund in order to repay the public debt We also expect more streamlined times with regard to the fight against tax havens. The issue has been addressed at the last international summits and the work seems to be well under way. If we could close this game quickly, we could count on more resources to benefit our deficit as early as next year. Just look at what has been done by Germany and other countries. It seems to me that the Government, according to press indiscretions, is again taking up the argument with Switzerland and I think that this objective must also be achieved in practice and pragmatically. Another game that is effectively closing is the one that concerns the reform of our tax system. The law delegates that we will also evaluate in the next few weeks in this House gives twelve months to the Government to develop a great reform, which will essentially give certainty to the tax regime and improve the relationship between the tax and the taxpayer. A clearer relationship with Italian taxpayers, but also with foreign companies. Foreign companies that have often not considered it desirable to settle in our territory also because of the uncertainty of the rules and the uncertainty of our tax system, and not only because of the high cost of labour. Speaking of labour costs, this is the next obstacle on which we must work, as solemnly announced by the Government. The Government and the social partners believe that it is necessary to reduce the so-called tax wedge, just as further measures are necessary and urgent to encourage the recruitment of workers (for the transformation of their contracts indefinitely) and to promote the placement of young people, but also the relocation of those who are so young no longer, but who still have so much to offer in working terms to our country. I am referring to the over 50 who are unfortunately losing their jobs. For this reason, we have great expectations in the next law of stability, which will have to translate into concrete measures part of the indications of this Update Note and part of the economic policy to which we of the Group For the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE have given our support, since we believe it is the only way to go in this particular and delicate economic phase and I would say historical. With regard to the law of stability and the news reported by the press about the meeting between Minister Saccomanni and the Presidents of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, we trust in a positive closure of the question of the reserve for the treasury, as well as that of the relaxation of the constraints of the Stability Pact for the virtuous entities. We note, in fact, that the resources that the Treasury should return to the Autonomous Provinces and Regions with special status in some cases have already been partially included in the budgets of these entities. Therefore, it would be desirable to find a shared solution which would meet the need for state consolidation, but without jeopardising any principle or competence provided for in the statutes of autonomy. Of course we still have a long way to go, I would like to draw your attention once again to the example of Germany, which has taken ten years to emerge from the crisis and regain competitiveness. I believe that we too will be able to do so if we are consistent with the reforms mentioned in this DEF Update Note. That is why we are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution No 4, which we signed, which is that of the majority. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u54	SCAVONE (GAL). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in communicating to the House the vote in favour of the Group of the Grand Autonomousists and Freedoms on motion for a resolution No 4, we cannot fail to consider the considerable concern that goes through our hearts and our sense of responsibility in the face of the situation of difficulties that have arisen in the country and which still remains, despite expectations that, as the Update Note itself confirms, have not occurred but have worsened: in fact, we have seen a worsening of the estimates of growth in the economy, so great is the concern for public finances. Public debt is expected to grow for both this and next year, up to 133.2 percent of GDP in 2014. It is hoped that from 2015 this will also lead to a decline in GDP, albeit nominal, to EUR 1,660 billion. We hope that from 2015 part of the stock of the commercial debts of the public administration to the enterprises will be paid. This will determine, as we hope (even if not so far), a twofold effect and positive action in the years to come. We need to focus on the creation of budgetary surpluses which lead to a slow but constant reduction in public debt. We are absolutely convinced that financial manoeuvres, starting with the Stability Act for 2014, must focus on the revision and the consequent redevelopment and reduction of public expenditure. We have some doubts about what is proposed in the Update Note regarding securitisation and privatisation. We live in a phase in which the real estate market has recorded the lowest values: we are careful, because we risk determining the sale of properties whose value is around 25% less than the same values of 2008. It would be just as serious a mistake to proceed with the sale of real estate assets or equity before doing well before those who look at us internationally. If we do not carry out the fundamental reforms that everyone expects and do not reassure the international markets (since they create real competition), we risk making a further hole in the water. We therefore believe that the first serious intervention should concern the recovery of the debt reduction plan on budgetary surpluses. The debt reduction carried out in this way - I remind myself - would gradually release some of the more than EUR 85 billion unnecessarily committed to paying interest payable on the debt. It is precisely from the recovery of these resources that we could start to finance that reduction in the tax burden that we all say is unbearable, but which still weighs very heavily on families and businesses. The Commission, Mr Vice-Minister, rightly believes that it is necessary to link measures for growth in the various sectors of the economy, such as simplifications, to the budgetary maneuver. However, we must not forget that the fundamental sector through which the revival of growth in our country passes is represented by companies. Nevertheless, public administration accounts are what they are. We greet - let us say this with conviction - the appointment of the commissioner for the spending review, announced by Prime Minister Letta in the Chamber on 2 October last: a man of great international experience, who will have to limare and recreate (I hope amply) the physiognomy of the over 800 billion that represent the cost of the central machine. It would be enough to follow - some have mentioned it - the recommendations that the EU Council has punctually listed; they are so simple and of common sense that Italy will only be able to do well if it agrees to follow the points that the EU Council has indicated to us. However, if all these conditions are met, it is right to say to people, to our people, to our people, to the five million citizens who are in conditions never seen in our country, who will have to wait at least 2020 - well that goes - so that an update can reach our families. Therefore, Italians expect (and must expect) many years of sacrifices. We Senators of the Great Autonomous Groups and Freedoms, however, not only remind the Letta Government of what we asked in the course of consultations (and we reminded it in the Chamber just last week), but we demand it, because we believe that, beyond our origin, this country has the possibility to leave again if the South starts again. This country can leave again if this Government will agree to rewrite a new pact for the Mezzogiorno, that is, a policy of overall relaunch for the Country, for which we work, which starts from a reorganization of the system of development of the Mezzogiorno. Since April, we have reminded the President-in-Office of the Council of the figures for GDP, which have now dramatically exploded and which are remembered in this House: the weight of GDP per head, which condemns the families of the Mezzogiorno to an annual figure with which these families must support only 54% of national GDP per capita. In April we were talking about the risk of the fall in consumption, which reached 5% in the Mezzogiorno area. We were talking about industrial desertification: over the last two years we have lost more than 15% of those employed in this sector; industrial desertification means, Mr Deputy Minister, that at the time when there was to be recovery, there is a risk that the Mezzogiorno area will not be in a position to get on the train of recovery. One last note: in the list of investments in infrastructure related to the DEF, we can only bitterly read that only residual interventions in infrastructure are dedicated to the Mezzogiorno. This area does not need alms to survive: it needs a great courage, a government that leaves the best memory in the democratic history of this country for having faced with reforms and courage the recovery of a condition that for eighty years has not been registered in a country like ours, but basically for having taken up a fundamental theme, namely the homogeneization of social cohesion that Italy absolutely needs to survive and to revive its own physiognomy at international level. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u57	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 1 by the Misso-SEL Group and to announce some of the amendments that we will propose to the House, particularly those which deal with the preparation of three intervention plans. The first is focused on work, mainly based on local development and redevelopment of urban centres, on the care and enhancement of the landscape and cultural heritage. A multi-year plan for soil protection. It is these hours and these days the debate on climate change and the condition of our country. Yesterday we witnessed the commemoration of one of the most traumatic events that has suffered our territory. Therefore, a multi-annual plan for soil protection and security, providing that the necessary public resources are excluded from the Internal Stability Pact. Finally, an energy transition plan towards the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy, which imposes 20% share of renewables and energy efficiency, also here thinking that public financial resources are excluded from the Internal Stability Pact. We also call for a guaranteed minimum income for the unemployed, precariously employed and seeking first employment, because it is necessary, at this stage of economic recovery, to think also of modern forms of assistance, which put us fully into the systems used in Europe. The three plans are not plans of a welfare nature: we believe that the intervention of companies and private capital, which must be profitable in this respect, is essential. But we also believe that it is important to proceed with these three plans, because they develop new technologies and new techniques for environmental intervention. And - look out - the front of the environmental industry is an absolutely modern front, capable of producing products that are also competitive on the market. We believe that this recalls the higher professional skills, the university's ability to stand in the field alongside the action of companies on the market and we think that work, the quality of work, the competence that is acquired in work is a competence that translates into enterprise: because it is the enterprise - I repeat - that comes from work, it is not the work that comes from the enterprise. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u60	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, many of us have forgotten to look into the DEF Update Note in detail in the political coffin we have been through over the past few weeks. I tell you this because surely this provision is not one of those documents that can be read with ease: there are data, values, percentages, it is very technical. But what happens, ladies and gentlemen? Just those data reported in all the files we had available can provide us with a more up-to-date picture of the country's economic situation, and it is a terribly worrying picture. When the Note to update the key document for the country's financial programming highlights a reduction in GDP on an annual basis of almost 2 percentage points, then an alarm bell begins to ring. I remember that in April this reduction was expected to be at least 1.3 percentage points: now we are at minus 1.9. Why is there so much, ladies and gentlemen, about the involution of the national product? A negative value, yet another that, combined with the same negative figure of 2012, clearly shows us that what we are experiencing is more than a recession: it is a depression. In the history of Italy, such a period of loss of production capacity and contraction of aggregate demand is not remembered. Certainly not in the hard two years of 1973-1974, when, even after a two-year period of difficulty, gross domestic product returned to grind values with the sign "more" ahead. Not in 1993, the year - to tell us - of the expulsion of the lira from the European Monetary System, when, after only two years from the exit of our currency from the EMS, GDP had already recovered the lost ground. The budgetary policies of recent years, based on a tightening of the tax burden on citizens and businesses, have produced nothing but a further recession. In the Update Note this situation is dramatically certified. All the variables in the economic framework show a slowdown: demand decreases; investment further decreases; the unemployment rate increases from 11.6 per cent to 12.2 per cent and even in 2014, colleagues, will rise to 12.4 per cent; the cost of labour in the last five months has increased further; the tax burden increases. Looking for further conformance? In the first eight months of 2013 the total VAT revenue fell by 3.7 billion euros, marking a decrease of 5.2 percent. Just to remember, the IMU on the first houses was worth, from standard rate, 3.8 billion euros. In practice, in eight months you have burned a tax that in one year generates the same amount. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] It is, in fact, a zero-sum game, which risks becoming even more negative when, colleagues, the increase in VAT, from 21 to 22%, is triggered in the economic circuit. A measure for growth? No doubt! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bulgarelli]] Under the aegis of the European Union and attentive to German diktats, the Italian Government has therefore based its economic policy on austerity, confusing, however, the revision of the inefficiencies, correct and necessary, with the interruption of investment, just as necessary. Moreover, the strong constraints of the Internal Stability Pact have blocked the municipalities in the possibility of generating that much needed wealth and work. Yet we have heard here today that the government has intervened and said so. Yeah, but how? With words, when you say that you have tried to remedy the many flaws by decanting a decree unlocks debts, blaming - as long as you have succeeded - a postponement of that VAT that did not happen and promising, but only by voice, that you would remove a tax that you always, two years ago, imposed: the IMU. You are trying to hide the truth: a bitter truth, made up of a country that no longer produces, in which young people are forced to run away and in which companies close; a truth that, with the numbers present in this document, emerges in all its drama, made of intervention the commercials, confused and unclear initiatives, aimed, in the most classic of Italian traditions, to collect consent in the short term, without taking care of the recessive effects in the medium to long period. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is what the government lacked: the courage and ability to tackle those structural reforms in an organic and forward-looking way, by analysing and planning interventions that can support recovery, by taking decisions that can really resolve the long-standing issue of taxes such as that on buildings. And not as you have done so far, with urgent decrees issued at the last minute, in the hope of being able then over time to find better luck. You see, this Update Note is precisely the picture of what the government has implemented in five months. Take the DEF, which you approved in April, and compare it with this Update Note. This government, instead of using the data available to identify where to intervene and corrective maneuvers to do, what does it do? It sets out measures such as the one on culture or the one on public administration. To clarify the concept, I use the opinion expressed by the 5th Commission: "The measure" - the measure on public administration - is as a whole a loosening of policies on the control of public administration expenditure (...) and risks making available for many years - I repeat: for many years - "access to the roles of central and peripheral administrations, through competition, as provided for by constitutional rules, of young and qualified staff" and - attention! - to the detriment of the quality of the services offered. They also take a measure such as the corrective manoeuvre they are preparing, despite several times this Government has stated that it does not want to do so. In addition to further increasing taxes, according to the drafts that circulate, it seems that it will even remove the parameter of virtuosity that belongs to those municipalities that spend the public resources wisely. The intentions contained in the motion for a resolution accepted by the Government are only fine words, because there is no point in saying that the tax burden will be reduced (this is also said in the Update Note itself), if it is not explained how. Nominating another commissioner for spending review and then keeping reports in the drawer doesn't reduce spending [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] To say that growth must be increased and then to approve measures that ballast, such as increased VAT or corrective action, does not create development. It's been a long time - we did it in April too - that we gave you suggestions and despite everything you failed them. Never before does the document we are discussing expose your inability to look, as the great statesmen do, not today, not tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow, an inability that is slowly but inexorably dragging us into a bottomless abyss. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u63	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, today Parliament approves the update of the DEF and in a few days the Government will approve the Stability Act. These are decisive acts, which can determine or not the transition of our economy from a situation of severe recession, which is devastating our production system, to a significant recovery in the growth rate. The Government and Parliament must therefore be aware of their enormous responsibility. I believe that we are facing a turning point, a challenge almost similar to what our fathers faced in post-war reconstruction. In 2014 the recovery will concern the major European economies: if Italy will not be able to grasp it, if its political and economic ruling class will not be able to make policies that are able to support it and amplify the positive cycle that is prefigured in the world, and that will come to us with greater determination starting next year, then will condemn our country to an uncertain future and will not succeed in offering the new generations a perspective of work. Our generation has had much from fathers, and today it is up to us to do something for our children. Today we have this opportunity - we will have it in the coming months - and the DEF gives us the picture of how we can act, attacking what are the structural weaknesses with which we have to measure ourselves and that we have to remove in order to restart the economy. Quantitative weaknesses: the level of debt and interest expenditure, the high level of pension expenditure relative to GDP, low investment, low level of education expenditure and high level of taxation. However, weaknesses are also qualitative and depend on the poor functioning of the administrative machinery, corruption and tax evasion. For all this we need profound changes that must change these critical points of our system. To make these changes we need courage, political determination and the ability to involve the country all in a great national project. It is here, in the capacity to do all this, that I believe will play the sense of the broad understanding with which President Napolitano has given the opportunity to the parties to redeem themselves from twenty years of immobilism, whose outcome today has aggravated the impact of a profound global economic crisis. We will now see, in the course of next year, whether, as we hope (this is why we wanted this political framework), political stability will also have the capacity to produce reforms. The DEF marks a path, begun with the decree for the payment of debts of the public administration, that we hope accelerates the delivery of liquidity and oxygen to companies that are at risk of asphyxiation. The law of stability will have to show a lightening of the tax burden, but we already know, because the framework of constraints is very tight, that what the law of stability can do will still be little. To do more, to give a real shock to consumption, we will have to negotiate in Europe, and to do so we will need to make our commitment to reforms solid and credible, to those reforms that - alone - can give dynamism to the economic system: liberalisations; the labour market; reform of a fiscal federalism that, with the financial crisis of the large municipalities, is bringing out the break between autonomy and responsibility; a spending review that, in order not to translate into mere cuts, will have to be able to reorganise in depth the public administrations, modify their way of working and push on digitalization, knowing that efficiency in the public administration means increasing our competitiveness. It is not enough to wait for the weak leaf of the recovery: if we want this wind to translate into growth rates that will allow us to still be a great European country, we expect a challenging job. The Civic Choice Group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution setting out this challenging path. We hope that Government and Parliament will actually succeed in achieving everything that is indicated in the DEF and in the Update Note during 2014. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u66	MOLINARI (M5S). Mr President, five months after the dismissal of the DEF in this House, we find ourselves in a new document which is an update of the policy guidelines and the fiscal framework, as well as an instrument to judge the policies that this Government has put in place in recent months, as well as to draw information on future interventions pending the law of stability. The macroeconomic data tell us that the criticisms we made in April are proving to be sound: the main public finance indicators are disappointing and the signals coming from the country are tragic. The latest data in the Update Note tell of an estimated GDP peaked at less than 1.7 percent compared to 2012 (in the DEF - let's remember - it was indicated at least 1.3 percent). Data that already serve the effects on the real economy of the only macroeconomic maneuver put in place by this Government and that had inherited from the previous one: the payment of debts of the public administration; intervention that, to date, on a figure of 18 billion made available, has seen a payment of only 11 billion effective, on a total debt estimated by the Bank of Italy of more than 80 billion. The deficit, meanwhile, has risen to 3.1 percent - not far from what was feared in April in our motion for a minority resolution - with a real tax burden of 53% and a loss of the purchasing power of citizens by more than 4.7 percent (the worst figure of the last 23 years). Added to this is the alarming figure of unemployment, which is over 12%, with youth unemployment reaching 50% in the South. They are pitiful data that tell us about a society in which 8% live in absolute poverty and with a public debt - in July - to 2,073 billion euros. To say that the policy put in place by this government is a failure is euphemistic. I believe, therefore, that it is not demagogic to raise serious doubts about the new growth forecasts reported in the Update Note, for each year until 2017: data that presages further corrective maneuvers at the end of the year or the sale of real estate - other than enhancement - in addition to what already planned in relation to the constituted Invimit SGR, the privatization operations of the Cassa depositi e loani. We do not want to appear Cassandra, but we would like the Italian people to have far-sighted rulers and not smoke sellers, who seriously question the future that they are preparing for the Italians, speaking words of truth. The data reported in the DEF Update Note, on the sequence of GDP growth rates, hope for a faster and higher growth rate dynamic than in the last 15 years, to be fully ascribed to the impact of the economic manoeuvres put in place so far and to those expected by December. The Leo Study Centre analysed its financial effects and showed that, compared to an expected reduction in tax pressure of 2.9 billion in 2013, due to a postponement of the increase in VAT (which, as seen, did not happen) and the cancellation of the IMU on the first house, it is certainly expected instead, net of those interventions, an increase in taxation of about 870 million in 2014 and 2015. We have already seen that the commitments made just a month ago have not been fulfilled and we are paying the increase in VAT (and we fear that the staged act put in place by the PDL with resignation and related pantomimes has constituted yet another trick in order to put in the background an increase in the tax pressure that this Government from the interchangeable group has not been able to avoid), which will result in a further increase in the tax pressure (well above 53 percent real) and, therefore, we have reason to doubt the growth forecasts that they want to sell us. We don't trust you. The increase in VAT is, however, useless since its revenue has been reduced in eight months by EUR 3.7 billion. When taxes are increased in times of economic recession, the effect is opposed to what is desired: the economy is further depressed and revenue is reduced. They even noticed it at the International Monetary Fund, but not at our Ministry of Economy, which continues on the pseudo austerity traced by the ineffective Monti Government. The measures put in place by the current Government, in fact, are simple buffer measures to ease the tax levy immediately. It is the usual management of the public thing of the last 20 years: we postpone the necessary reforms of system hoping for a better future at the expense of the uncertain future of our children, in order not to affect the rents of position acquired. We saw it this morning when we did not want to adopt an amendment that was going to affect golden pensions. It is more than obvious that the one drawn in the DEF Update Note is not as real growth as a tragic - for the consequences it will have on our people - accounting artifice. Growth increases by half a percentage point per year so that it can count 8 billion additional GDP per year, to a total of 32 billion in the next four, making public accounts appear for what will never be. Tremonti school, apparently, has proselytes. We are more than convinced - precisely because of the previous one - that this accounting artifice, perhaps useful in healing the problems of your government coalition, will not be enough to deceive the cunning foreign investors: it is unlikely that the latter will continue to buy public debt securities in order to bring the spread back to Germany at 100, as it is propaganda Minister Saccomanni in the international financial institutions. But what is even more serious is that not even in this Note to update the Economic and Financial Document we find a minimum measure that concerns equity and social justice. The great economic and financial capital of a speculative nature remains inviolate, nor are the waste of politics at all harmed, being left entirely unchanged the privileges of parasitic and unproductive classes, on the altar of which the civil and social rights of the people are constantly sacrificed. There is no measure that reverses the ignoble practice of a redistribution of wealth in the opposite direction. That 10 percent of the population that has continued to grow rich in this period of crisis, while the middle class has impoverished, must be called to the responsibility of greater participation in the future of this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We refer to those who receive salaries or pensions of more than EUR 20,000 per month and who hypocritically barricade themselves behind the rights asked, those rights strangely forgotten when the Fornero reform was launched and which, in reality, represent a defence of unfairly committed privileges. This necessary call for the fairness of citizens must necessarily move away from the call for responsibility of Europe, which must not preserve bureaucracies or business and banking lobbys that have been enriched and are continuing to do so, but must be concerned about the well-being of the people who are exhausted. The crisis, if not, will overwhelm everyone and the consequences will be borne by our children, to whom we will deliver a Europe destined to implode. In addition, in this aseptic and unrealistic picture outlined in the Update Note to our exam we have - alas! - a few words for the Mezzogiorno and no words for anti-corruption law; law that must be revised, re-introduced the crime of fake budget and tax fraud, bringing back to the original formulation the crime of concussion, introducing the crime of self-laundering, providing rules that prevent organized crime from conditioning the vote, increasing the limitation periods for crimes of particular gravity and, above all, for crimes against the public administration: it is necessary to give a new impetus to the sense of honesty that must return to fashion. The greatest despair that can take hold of a society - said one of my co-regionals - is the doubt that living honestly is useless. We do not want to live in a desperate society, nor do we want to give it to our children. For these reasons, we shall only vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 3, which sees me as the first signatory. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u67	I inform the Assembly that the deadline for tabling amendments to motion for resolution No 4 accepted by the Government has expired.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u70	Mr Azzollini (PdL). Mr President, the happy coincidence for the Senate of having approved, in rapid succession, the 2012 report, the 2013 adjustment today, the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document, leads us to some considerations that seem urgent to me to make and, above all, to address. The accounts and the adjustment have said that now the manoeuvre of financial rigour that we have held has grafted on a process of productive crisis of the economy after which, even, the framework of public finance can risk to compromise again. In essence, the maneuvers that have been made have intervened almost all on the revenue side. The increase in taxes, in any way imposed on citizens, has produced for the years 2012 and 2013, in an apparently paradoxical way, but instead entirely logical, a reduction in revenues: which means that now the tax burden is such as to compromise, not only - as we will see shortly - the economic aspects of our economy, but also the financial aspects themselves. The Economic and Finance Document observes this figure and projects an important favorable one: the hoped-for, possible, planned growth of GDP in 2014 to the extent of 1%. The issues already addressed regarding the effects that revenue-based maneuvers have brought to the economy have already given their results. At this moment the Nation, the Italian Republic, the Italians have only one problem: to make feasible that 1% of positive GDP (I have to add it because, unfortunately, it has been negative in recent years) in 2014, to face with determination the real economy and decide that Italy will start to grow again. Only this can now consolidate the public finance framework. I repeat this and, for the work I do, everyone knows how much commitment, sometimes not too much understood, attempts are being made to stop the increase in current expenditure. We are trying very hard, so the objective of consolidating public finances is very clear in us, but we know that for the reasons that I have said before, the revenue-based containment measures have already given everything. Moreover, let us not deceive ourselves - I say something that perhaps seems uncomfortable - because the maneuvers of cutting expenses, beyond the one realized dryly in 2010 and that has produced its fruits, it is difficult for them today to bring results very quickly. Unfortunately, cutting expenses (both through disposals and through targeted and selective cuts) needs time and commitment. I ask that the Government, in addition to naming additional commissioners, apply to something that already exists: address a piece of the proposals for the spending review made by already established Commissions, which have already produced the results, to bring in a certain period of time to the results of the spending review itself. But I want to remind everyone, to me first, that spending review - let's not deceive ourselves with difficult words - needs to cut current spending. Here lies the problem of our state. As many colleagues have already said, investment expenditure has now been cut short of what we say to little light, and the reduction of expenditure on so-called intermediate consumption - as those who have tried to deal with it in practice have already said - in the end, in immediate terms, cannot bring great results: the real problem is that we have to deal seriously with the problem of current expenditure. Therefore, that 1% of GDP (we will vote firmly for the majority motion that raises this problem) will only be attainable if we start, at least, with serious and serenity cuts that may not lead to immediate results but can do so in the short and medium term. On the other hand, you are well aware that Europe itself no longer pronounces itself in terms of balance, but adds the word structural to it. And that word is fundamental, because that's where we have to start to have a serious impact. Moreover (I say another uncomfortable truth), a recent research by Europe has further attested (although Europe did not need to say so) that Italian productivity is the real problem of our nation. It is an index that does not present problems of comparison: compared to the countries of the eurozone, we are the last. Let's put it this way: the last ones. So, our position is easy. When you are penultimate you compete with someone else. No, we're last! So, or the whole nation, starting with us, assumes this as a benchmark for growth or everything we said before risks shipwrecking. There are three issues that we need to start to deal with for productivity right away. The first is simple: the confusion of institutional levels. The decree of doing cannot implement good measures in the field of construction and public works and the regional laws do exactly the opposite; we cannot, we must decide. Someone can decide not to want development anymore; well, each of us will choose where Europe lives; or it is decided that this nation beyond development for the next generations, and then this issue must be addressed at once. It must be said at once who does what, without using difficult words such as codetermination and I do not know which others. There must be someone who says "this is done and this is not done." The second issue, which is very close to the latter, is simplification. We can't do it anymore, let's stop, let's do the unique texts, eliminate the overabundance of laws. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani.]] Let's make the citizen and the entrepreneur a serene environment. Today, running into any permit that is missing, a permit or an expired license, is an impossible thing. I ask all of us who are legislators if we are able to orient ourselves in the forest of laws on which moreover (you will excuse me some small controversy), with enormous extensions of unnecessary times, we continue not to intervene. We propose in the Commissions, made up of Members and senators who are capable of making one-off simplification texts, something that finally forces the Budget Commission - I say it with sympathy, but you understand with how much conviction! - not to give an objection under Article 81 of the Constitution, because it is a question of repealing burdensome rules. Simplification has no cost and can be done simply, but I say to everyone, of all the parties: let's decide, however! First of all, we can no longer be prey to bureaucracies. If we remove the mandatory but non-binding, binding but not mandatory, mandatory and binding opinion of any institution, the cataclysm will succeed. But that's not true. Forgive me for the difficult quotation, but Max Weber, who studied these issues well, said that bureaucracies tend to perpetuate themselves, they want this. The nation needs the opposite. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Candiani.]] The third and final question, Mr President, is that we must begin to say that an effort to work more must be made in Italy. The productivity rate unfortunately says this, and I would add that there are many hundreds of thousands, perhaps a few million new members of the INPS who are non-EU citizens who work and who pay contributions in Italy: thank goodness that there are. We Italians and Italians have to understand this and we have to tell ourselves, looking into our eyes, that some synecure has to be eliminated, some perimeter has to be restricted, something has to be done.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u71	Senator Azzollini, please conclude, you also had an extra minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u72	Mr Azzollini (PdL). Thank you. I am about to finish, Mr President. That is why I think that 1% of GDP can only be achieved with these things: simplification, simplification of institutional levels and, gentlemen, the Italians who bring out their great capacities, including their work. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u75	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document, as has been mentioned, represents (for me it really represents) a realistic picture of the situation in which we are in. It is important that it is realistic, because for a long time we have relied on photographs that had touches of author or artist. This is a realistic picture showing a difficult, structurally complex situation, which needs all the things that have been felt in the debate in this House, but with an awareness: our country is a country that needs a momentum and a reformer push to be credible, it needs to make great structural reforms, but we must tell ourselves with equal sincerity that structural reforms, even if they find sufficient convergence to be put in place, will produce results in the medium and long term. Therefore, we need a reformer push to present to ourselves as an important commitment to innovation in the country, to be presented to the markets as a commitment of seriousness in pursuing objectives and achieving these objectives; but we also need to carry out actions today, now, immediately, that allow us to achieve the ambitious goals that this Note of updating of the DEF and the law of stability will have to contain. Moving from less 1.7% of GDP to more 1 percent within a year is not an easy goal to achieve: it is an ambitious objective. Those underestimating him may think that the economy can be a game of prestige. The economy, on the other hand, is a serious discipline that requires seriousness in those who face it. The key word on which we should base the law of stability is the competitiveness of our country, which sees us - as is said in the photograph presented - in 49th place among the advanced nations, while Switzerland presents itself in 1st place. Those who thought that the problem was labour costs or excessive labour costs for businesses must rethink themselves. Just look at the fact that our companies in the North, but not only in the North, are responding to the appeals of the Municipality of Chiasso that wants to industrialize that area and move there, to look for opportunities in a territory that is certainly not low cost, neither of the job nor of the money, but it is a territory that expresses more efficiency in the administration. It is a territory where the State works, but it is not a redundant or suffocating state, but - as the director of ENA, the French school of public administration management, said 25 years ago - it is a modern state because a modest state. A state is modern and is modest when it does not give up efficient public spending, when it does not give up social spending to recreate balance, when it does not give up an efficient cost of the machine, when it manages to calibrate its own expenditure and does not waste, but is above all a modern and modest state when it does not interfere in any action to prevent the competitiveness of economic actors in the field. Today the State intervenes in every action to slow down, put sand in the gears and block the machine of competitiveness, in this helped by the thousand corporatisms that rage in our country. I am referring to all those who say: you can change, but you change there, not where I am; you can change, but you have to change another. It's always another one that needs to change. This is the case for public administration, this is the case for the laws that we are also examining in these hours on public administration. It is so for those who believe that work can be created by decree. It is so for those who believe that growth can be created through the printing of the money of the Monopoly that we no longer have: there is no more Monopoly and we no longer have the possibility to print money. We need to grow in productivity, but be careful: our productivity is low, and not for two years now. Compared to other European countries, we have been in productivity deficits for at least fifteen years. Even when we grew up we were in a lack of productivity, because others grew more, they invested in technology, they did not make daring maneuvers of public finance, they did not support unproductive apparatus, they did not always listen to all the megaburocracies that, precisely, prevent the growth and competitiveness of the country. The others grew more because they made reformist choices and also exploited the political opportunity: for countries like Germany the Great Coalition was a political opportunity, allowing us to do together what no one on its side has the courage or determination to do. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] This is what others teach us, and these others are not old democracies but systems that continue to innovate, that have carried out structural reforms: those that we do with the gun to the temple have made them choosing to make them and having the political, social and economic consent to be able to do them. This has been missed by our country. And that also means a serious shortage for years of responsible leadership. And the ruling class, of course, is not just politics, as everyone in bad way would want to make people believe. The ruling class is the business class, the ruling class are the unions, the ruling class are the bankers [[Applause from the PD, PdL and M5S groups]] , it is the workers who know that their destiny is not linked to what you conquer today but to the perspective that you give to your country. The ruling class in our country in recent years has ended up in a landscape in which they have ravaged magicians who, in one way or another, thought that you could get out of a situation like this by embellishing the markets. But the markets didn't get caught up when they saw that we weren't competing. And we are a country that does not compete, a country that needs a notary to buy a car, a country that spends an ignoble amount of money in all the professional lobbyies that other countries do not have on the grumpone, a country that does not compete because it prevents public and private monopolies from measuring with the competition of the markets. We are a country that every morning, when someone turns on the light switch lights up a monopoly; when someone opens the gas, lights up a monopoly; when someone raises the screen of his workshop he knows that he has hundreds of monopolists against him disturbed by the fact that he does business and creates work. Well, if we want to make this leap there is a political opportunity to do so, an unimaginable political opportunity at other times. Let us seize this political opportunity: the courage to do things together allows us not to be afraid of doing things that cannot be done by ourselves. This is the political opportunity that allows us to grow by one percentage point after falling by 1.7 the year before. And this is only for this circumstance, which has allowed us to put EUR 50 billion in the field in two years to pay for companies because of the delays of public administrations. This is underestimated. Fifty billion euros correspond to 100,000 billion lire in one shot, a figure that had never been seen in our country on the business system. If we look at the data of this important document, of this important photograph, we can see that much of the expected growth is linked to this public intervention, to this volitional intervention of the State. But that can't be enough. We have to trust businesses and workers, we have to make sure that a worker has more money in his pocket and that a company has to spend less money on that worker. We need to make that money translate into consumption, reactivate domestic demand. There is no international market that accepts you if you live only in sporadic competitiveness and does not have the internal capacity to support the entire economic fabric. These changes can be achieved in a short time, if we want to make them together. Because you go against 100 castes, 1000 guilds: they can only be done together. Reforms, yes, we must put them in place, but they require long-term choices. There are different views of society on the reforms. On those we need the different visions to converge to make our country not a modest, but modern country in its competitiveness, in its services, in its support for those who are worse, in its ability to affect inequalities. A country that knows how to compete with the largest countries does not continue to look at rankings in which they say that we are in the penultimate or last place: for once, we try to say that we are in second or third place for the World Health Organization for our National Service. [[Applause from the PD, PDL and LAG groups.]] And for once we proudly defend this blessed National Health Service. I think this can make us do things together; it is this together that we need now, this being and doing together. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and GAL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u77	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u78	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, I declare that I will abstain from the vote, and I shall of course explain the reasons for that. The Update Note to the Economy and Finance Document is a hypothesis of our future formulated by the Government, but how can we trust it? I remember that in the forecast balance sheet the government assumed issues of securities of 24 billion, which then in the reporting became 80 and in the adjustment 98: not a great hypothesis. How can we be trusted when we talk about growth gained in the accounts and then discover that the growth gained, looking at the numbers, is actually the minus 1.7? In the Note we also find six draft laws that will complete the budget maneuver, and we hope that they will be written better than the decrees that have come to this House so far, because defining them as unpropos is a compliment. Also in the same Note we find a special section for the valorization of the public heritage, estimated at about 350 billion. But there is also the Agency for the disposal of public assets. The only credible hypothesis is that the government is preparing to sell out. You started with Telecom, it's Alitalia's rumor, there are random amendments to sell out the ENI; now you're thinking of selling out all the assets we have left. All this in the total silence of the President of the Republic, who is really not interested in the facts to watch over what happens in Italy and the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u79	We shall now proceed to the examination of motion for a resolution No 4, which was accepted by the Government and on which three amendments have been tabled, which are being distributed. Senator Uras, who tabled amendments 4.1 and 4.2, explained them in his explanation of vote. Before seeking the opinion of the rapporteur and the government on the amending proposals, I would ask Senator Berger, who tabled Amendment 4.3, if he wishes to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u80	Mr President, we can define Amendment 4.3 as a supplement to motion for a resolution No 4, because our problem is always 3%. This amendment was born of the European Union's political Commission, and the criticality of the use of the Structural Funds gave us a boost to ask why the co-financing of Community funds should be counted on the Community Stability Pact. In motion for a resolution No 4, in point 10, we are talking about measures to revise the Internal Stability Pact. In point 11, further measures are envisaged to ensure a faster and more efficient use of the Structural Funds. This is true of the Internal Stability Pact. With the proposed amendment, in the Italian Presidency of the European Council, it would also be good to revise the criteria of the Stability Pact on national co-financing of Community funds, in order to remove national funding from this count if necessary, so that we will also have less difficulty remaining within 3%. I believe that an amendment of this kind closes the circle from the internal stability pact to the external one as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u81	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments tabled to motion for a resolution No 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u82	Mr President, as regards amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators, the substance is contained in motion for a resolution No 4, because it refers to labour policies linked to local development and other interventions, to a plan for soil protection, to an energy transition plan. They are all concepts already present in various forms in the motion for a resolution and, therefore, we do not believe that the amendment is acceptable, even if the substance is acceptable. With regard to Amendment 4.2, also tabled by Senator Uras, there is a very clear intervention here with regard to the guaranteed minimum income, which we do not think we can accept because in the motion for a resolution, there are two precise references to the full refinancing of buffers by way of derogation, which go in the same direction, and also to interventions that improve the economic situation of the population of the weakest groups. And reference is made to that support for active inclusion which is one of the possible actions that the Government puts in place. I repeat, however, that both with regard to Amendment 4.1 and Amendment 4.2, when we do not accept them, it seems to us that we can say that both in philosophy and in substance, they can be accepted. With regard to Amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Berger, we believe that it is acceptable, in the sense that it goes in the direction of renegotiating, in particular at European level, the mechanism of national co-financing which, as included in the Stability Pact, sometimes results in a inhibition of the full use of Community funds. So, as such, this seems to us to be a policy that must be pursued in Europe in order to achieve, also by this way, the objective of making better use of Community funds. I therefore support Amendment 4.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u83	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u84	We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendments tabled to motion for a resolution No 4. We shall proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u87	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u88	I interpret your request as also relating to all subsequent votes. [[to Senator Martelli makes a nod of assent]] From your point of view, Senator Martelli, I understand that I have understood the meaning of your request. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Uras and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 4.1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on document LVII, No 1-a. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.2 tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. I declare the vote open. [[The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Comments from the M5S Group that indicates the presence of lights on which do not correspond senators]] The mistake has been corrected. Calm down! The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on document LVII, No 1-a. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.3 tabled by Senator Berger and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on document LVII, No 1-a. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4, accepted by the Government, in the amended text. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senators Zanda, Schifani, Susta, Ferrara Mario and Zeller to vote by electronic ballot in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Motions for resolutions Nos 1 and 2 tabled by Senator Uras and other Senators, Nos 2 and 2 tabled by Senator Bitonci and other Senators, and No 3, tabled by Senator Molinari and other Senators are therefore excluded. The review of the Update Note is thus concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u90	You have the right to do so. (Brusio). I ask the senators to leave the Chamber calmly to allow Senator Cioffi to make his speech at the end of the sitting. CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I would simply like to ask the Presidency to urge the Government to respond to a number of questions that I have tabled. In these months I have tabled four questions, two of which were in written response, the 4,00088 in April and the 4,00035 in June, one oral, the 3-00309 in August, and one urgent, the 3-00367 in September. These questions were addressed to the President of the Council, the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport and others. We want to know what happens regarding the conferral of delegations to Vice-Ministers and Undersecretaries, in particular with reference to the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, who still holds the double position of Mayor of Salerno and Vice-Minister (although he is not a Deputy Minister but a Undersecretary, having not yet had the delegations).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u91	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] Since even the Antitrust is interested in this issue, it would be time for the people representing the State to decide whether they want to defend the citizens of the cities they administer or the country, since so many things happen. I would like to ask, not as a representative of the Movement, but as a mere citizen, why Mr Lupi does not come to the House to answer. It would be very interesting to know what you have to say about this issue. I would ask you, therefore, to speak up for our request to have an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u92	I will also call Minister Lupi for this reason.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u95	LIUZZI (PdL). Mr President, in the face of the misfortunes and destruction that struck Puglia and Basilicata yesterday, it is essential that the government proclaims the state of calamity. Violent clouds have claimed victims and caused considerable material damage. Particularly affected were the Provinces of Taranto and Lecce, with landslides, collapses and floods. The crops, vineyards, orchards, orchards and citrus groves are unrecognizable. Such a ghostly scenario has cast into despair the people of the fields, farmers, farmers and their family members, their collaborators and employees. In these territories as many as four citizens have lost their lives, overwhelmed by the fury of the waters: they are men and women mainly of young age. Mr President, I would like to say their names: Giuseppe Bari, 35 years old, Chiara Moramarco, 25 years old, Pino Bianculli, 32 years old, and unfortunately there is no news of a fourth victim. Let's make them a deference and moved thought, let's make their relatives feel, grieved and destroyed by the pain, the sorrow of the Senate, so that it is known in the country the crispness that unites the real country with the so-called legal country, that is the institutions, that finally listen and interpret the discomfort of the populations. The Assembly of Senators, Mr Gasparri, participating in the mourning, shows that it is close to the workers, to the citizens, to the civil society of Ginosa and Castellaneta, as well as to that of Latina, where a lightning bolt struck and killed an agricultural worker. In this context, Mr President, it is essential to recognise and give farmers an incisive role in the management of land and the environment, a fundamental role in the protection of the land and the rural landscape, in order to curb land abandonment and cementification or desertification, as stated by the National Confederation of Direct Farmers issued today. With these sentiments, senators and senators, we close this parliamentary day, aware that our attitude is decisive to understand and give voice to the indignation of the territories, the protagonists of economic and social activities on the territory, but it is just as useful and necessary to make those who look at the parliamentary institutions understand as a bulwark of society, of social equity and of the authentic soul of the nation, who will not lack our commitment to avert the tragedies and pain caused by the fury of nature, but also by human ignorance, by the lack of prevention and the absence of ordinary and frequent practices of maintenance and government of the territory. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u96	The Presidency supports his words and also his condolences for all that has happened and for the victims of yet another tragic event, which hits a territory that has already recently suffered so many bitter and dramatic vicissitudes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u99	ZANONI (PD). Mr President, I would like to address the House on a number of new issues concerning the implementation of the reform of judicial geography. The Minister had said that she would monitor the application of the reform and said that she was willing, over the next two years, to verify the criticalities and possibly to put in place acts to remedy them. However, action must be taken more quickly to avoid the creation of irreversible situations. The Commission of the Ministry of Justice aims to provide the Guardasigilli with the precise picture within the year of how the offices have adapted in the new structure, so as to take corrective measures by September 2015, but the commission does not hide that, at the moment, there are different situations of suffering. Beyond suffering, however, I want to report new facts, which highlight the fact that some choices, rather than efficiency, produce new costs, and do not allow us to wait two years for them to be addressed. The restructuring of the Pinerolo court took years for its realization and millions of euros were spent by the State and by the Municipality. Monday morning I went to visit the locals; now they are ready and perfect: just enter. They have been designed to be the seat of a court, from the point of view of safety and functionality, therefore it is absolutely not immediate to foresee an alternative function for these beautiful premises. The novelty is that in the case of this intervention, in the province of Turin there is the court of Ivrea that, having to take charge of an additional job, in order to decongest the metropolitan area, has communicated to the newspapers in these days that it has the necessity of a new headquarters or of a significant widening of the current seat, because a quantity of work has been found decidedly greater than the one expected. I agree with the objective of the efficiency research reform, but in this case we need to give a signal as soon as possible, and we cannot wait two years. On the one hand we do not use a new office, to build another in the same Province, which had not previously reported this need, and it does now - I would not say - also to avoid being suppressed. The objective of the reform - that of decongestantizing the metropolitan areas - has not been taken into account in any account in the province of Turin, nor has the size of the province been taken into account. We have citizens of the Sestriere who must take more than two hours to reach the Turin court. It is enough to think what this means for problematic aspects such as support administrations or protection procedures. These situations put already weak citizens in difficulties. Meanwhile - on October 21 - the judges will already be transferred to Turin. So, what's the committee gonna do? He's gonna go see if he's moved in. What Commissioner will be responsible for saying that a mistake has been made and will ask for more money to be spent to restore the previous situation? [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u102	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that, even today, there have been difficulties in public transport in the city of Naples. It is becoming an unsustainable situation, also because the transport staff are constantly subjected - of course - to discontent and even, sometimes, to the insults of the transporters. But this situation is not the fault of the staff of the transport company, nor of the users: the fault, in fact, is of those who manage the transport company. Well, this transport company goes from Circumvesuviana to Sepsa, to MetroCampania Nord-Est, which is a participant of the Campania Region, and in particular the so-called EAV (Autonomous Authority Volturno). I would like to remind you that Article 16 (5) and subsequent paragraphs of Law No 83 of 22 June 2012 on urgent provisions for the continuity of transport services lists the acts and measures to be taken for the rescue of participating companies in local public transport. The plan provided for in the aforementioned norm has been defined by the Government itself urgent and its disapplication can cause the failure of the transport companies, with enormous inconveniences on the population of the Campania Region: this is what is happening every day. They don't even have spare parts anymore. Slowly it's going to the wreck. However, the transport service of the iron company EAV is the only carrier to reach the capital, without considering the detrimental effects on more than 2,000 employees and their families. It should also be remembered that the moratorium on payment orders will expire at the end of the year. Therefore, one fears the risk of failure of this company. It would be appropriate for the relevant ministers - the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Economic Affairs - to take immediate steps to implement Article 16 of Law No 83. Ministers exist: let them do their job. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u103	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-121.ana.u104	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 10 October, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.14 p.m.
