ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 24 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u4	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.38 a.m. and resumed at 9.59 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u6	Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure starts (10 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u11	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, in the Committee on Justice we launched a draft law which essentially concerned the planning of the destruction of abusive artifacts. That measure, which gathered almost unanimity in the Commission, had been launched in the wake of a number of measures organised by different prosecutors in the Republic. It had been scheduled for the House, the report had been carried out, but then it could not be dealt with. I have to tell you the truth: I understand that all the measures that have been dealt with in the meantime in this House are important, but allow me, Mr President, to point out to you that they probably did not have the same urgency, because, in the absence of the examination and the end of the legislative procedure concerning this measure, other prosecutors of the Republic adhere to the chronological criterion, so that in the last month we have seen the demolition of six other houses certainly of necessity, with all the damage that may result to the Italian citizens who, for a number of reasons, have been induced to this type of construction. It seems appropriate to say "Dum Romae consulitur..." Mr President, the problem is very simple: I would ask you personally and also on behalf of all the senators elected in the Campania Region to urge the immediate timing and immediate handling of this bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u12	President Palma, you are well aware that this matter is known to the Senate Assembly, which had dealt with it several times. At 1 p.m. there will be a Conference of the Leaders, where I am sure that the representative of your Group, with the same determination, will highlight this issue that I will report myself, but that the Conference of the Leaders, as you teach me, should possibly urge, even taking into account the budgetary session and all the deadlines of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u13	The next item is the debate on the bill No 1015-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are examining this decree at third reading. I will look at the changes made to the measure in a brief way so that there is no room for further discussion. In Article 1, on the reduction of expenditure on car service and advice, the ceiling on expenditure on counselling assignments was further reduced to 75% of the 2014 expenditure for 2015. The nullity of contracts has been introduced and disciplinary unlawfulness has been introduced in the event of failure by the administrations to transmit data relating to assignments and recruitments for an indefinite period. The rules on religious teachers have been abolished. With regard to Article 2, laying down provisions on access to public administrations, absorption of surpluses and strengthening of the revision of expenditure, including on staff, it has been envisaged that mobility procedures should be subject to joint examination with trade union organisations. The period referred to in paragraph 1 (a) (1) from 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2016 has been extended. The orders of the territorial professional colleges have been excluded from these forecasts, with extension also to national bodies and associations, provided that they are in financial equilibrium. The principle that these institutions must self-regulate in order to adapt to the principles of public employment has also been introduced: there is no provision for the containment of expenditure because they are not subject to the public budget. The House of Deputies has also introduced two rules. The first, of authentic interpretation with regard to the retirement quotas ante reform Fornero, provides that civil servants, including those of the Regions, ASLs and instrumental institutions, for which exemption under the regional laws of transposition was under way, and for which application was made on 4 December 2011, will have the right to access retirement with the previous discipline. The Italian Drug Agency's contracts to 31 October 2014 have been extended. The nullity of contracts concluded in breach of the rules on incompatibility and incandidability has been introduced. With regard to Article 3 on mobility in the public service and in participating companies, provision has been made by the Chamber of Deputies for retired managers for the suspension of pension treatment; the condition of the absence of operating losses has been laid down. In different cases, at 31 December 2013 work relationships with this staff cease and no cover with subsequent recruitments are allowed. Article 3-a has been amended by providing for the revision of service contracts, excluding those concluded with companies issuing financial instruments listed on regulated markets and with companies controlled by them: this is the introduction of a rule which had previously been specified in the coordination rules. With regard to Article 4 on the entry into service of candidates and winners of competitions, as well as restrictions on extensions of contracts and on the use of flexible work in the public service, it was provided by the Chamber of Deputies that the public administration should sign forward contracts with the winners and grade holders of the same or other public administration. It has been foreseen that the new competitions can be held only after the entry into office of all the winners, including the winners of the competitions that are on the date of entry into force of this decree, and another condition has been laid for the completion of the new competitions: the absence of candidates in the rankings approved since 1 January 2007. As regards the coverage of posts for professional figures common to all state administrations, there have been single competitions entrusted to the Department of Civil Service, which must organize them on a regional basis. Individual administrations may be allowed to conduct competitions directly only for specific professional figures. A contribution from participants to public competitions of up to 10 euros has been introduced. As for the deadline for banning competitions, referred to in paragraph 6, the Chamber of Deputies has brought to 31 December 2016 that originally provided by the decree to 31 December 2015. The Senate had proposed an extension, which had been rejected by the Budget Committee. It was also provided for the non-manager staff of the Provinces to participate in selections of public administrations of the provincial territory of reference. With regard to the use of the rankings of the competitions held pursuant to this Decree No 101 of 2013, the period from 2013-2015 to the four years 2013-2016, extending the period of usability of the rankings. As regards the stabilisation of fixed-term staff recruited on the basis of selective procedures, the deadline was extended from 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2016 and it was established that this stabilisation should take place before launching the new competitions provided for in the same decree. Moreover, the forecast that excluded the precarious winners of the competition on the date of entry into force of this decree from the possibility to participate in these competitions was deleted. Provision has been made for the possibility of extending contracts for precarious persons who have at least three years of service, provided that recruitment procedures are in place. To this end, it has been envisaged that recruitment procedures should be conducted no longer by 2015, but by 2016. For the Provinces, the extension of time contracts was also foreseen until 31 December 2014. For research bodies, the possibility of extension was also provided for with funds relating to specific research within the limits of the duration of the research. For regions with special status and autonomous provinces extensions of fixed-term employees have been allowed, provided that the resources are identified by the institutions themselves and are certified by the internal audit bodies. The legislation on the Italian Red Cross has been reintroduced. It has been foreseen that the certificate for non-competitive sports can be issued by general medical doctors, free choice pediatricians, medical specialists in sport medicine. In the case of research institutions, the possibility of issuing competitions has been allowed; the authorisation must be given at the same time as the three-year plan of staff requirements and the size of the staff has been approved. There are also other minor amendments to Article 5, Article 7, Article 8 and Article 10. The amendments to Article 11 are more significant. As is well known, Article 11 amends the rules of the waste traceability control system (SISTRI), restricting the audience of subjects obliged to adhere to the system and laying down rules for the specification of subjects and the identification of additional categories to be applied by the system. The Chamber of Deputies has amended paragraph 1 by including, among the subjects required to join the SISTRI, in the case of intermodal transport, those to whom special hazardous waste is entrusted while waiting for the latter to be taken over by the undertakings carrying out the subsequent transport. It is also entrusted to decrees of the Minister of the environment and of the protection of the territory and the sea the definition of the modalities of application of the SISTRI to intermodal transport. Paragraph 2, already amended by the Senate, set the initial term of operation of the SISTRI on 1 October 2013 for entities or undertakings that collect or transport hazardous waste on a professional basis, including foreign carriers carrying out the transport of waste within the national territory or cross-border transport from the territory and for entities or undertakings carrying out the treatment, recovery, disposal, trade and intermediation of hazardous waste, including new producers. This paragraph has been amended by the Chamber of Deputies in order to provide for its application to waste that has, in addition to the characteristic of danger, also that of speciality. With further modification it was also imposed that, by decree of the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, the testing of the SISTRI, with effect from 30 June 2014, to the entities and the enterprises that, in the national territory, collect, transport, indent or trade hazardous municipal waste professionally, including the international carriers. The decree-law, in the text resulting from the changes made by the Senate, dictated, in article 11, paragraph 3-a, rules for the application of sanctions for violations related to the system. In the course of the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, the text of paragraph 3-a has been replaced by the new text, where it is provided that for ten months from 1 October 2013 the main and ancillary sanctions for non-compliance with the rules of SISTRI referred to in Article 260-a and 260-b of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006. Instead, Articles 188, 189, 190 and 193 concerning the responsibility for waste management, the register of waste, the obligation to keep a register of loading and unloading, the transport of waste and the same legislative decree continue to apply in the previous text. Moreover, the decree of the Minister of the Environment, provided for in paragraph 4 of the article under consideration, the modification and integration of the discipline of the penalties provided for in SISTRI, as well as the coordination with article 188-b of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006, where the general lines of the control on the traceability of waste are established. The Chamber of Deputies has also amended paragraphs 7 and 8 in several points, where it is provided that, by decree of the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, the traceability control system is to be simplified periodically. These changes were aimed at combining the concept of simplification with that of optimization. In addition, with regard to the planned technical verification of the adequacy of the costs of SISTRI, the provision has been amended in order to provide that simplifications and optimisation are also aimed at reducing costs, provided that this does not hinder the correct traceability of waste and an increase in environmental and health risk. The Chamber of Deputies also introduced paragraphs 12-a to 12-d as well as paragraph 13. Paragraph 12-a intervenes on Article 190 of the environmental code, introducing new and more articulated provisions on the regulation of the keeping of the registers of loading and unloading of waste by those who do not adhere to the SISTRI. The new paragraph 1 of Article 190 obliges the keeping of the registers of loading and unloading of waste: the initial producers of special, hazardous and non-dangerous waste, from industrial and craft processes and special non-dangerous waste for water purification and other treatment; the other holders of waste in the activities of collection, transport, treatment, recovery and disposal; the intermediaries and traders of waste. The new paragraph 1-a excludes from the obligation to keep records: those who voluntarily join the SISTRI and the original producers who carry out the activities of collecting and transporting their own special non-dangerous waste. The new paragraph 1-b lays down a new framework for farmers providing that, where they are initial producers of hazardous waste, they comply with the obligation to keep loading and unloading registers in one of the following two simplified ways: a) with the retention of the waste identification form provided in general for those who collect and transport their non-hazardous waste or of the copy of the waste traceability control card (SISTRI); (b) with the preservation of the hazardous waste delivery document from agricultural activities provided for in the collection system organised by consortia. The new paragraph 1-c lays down, in relation to the various categories of persons required to compile the waste loading and unloading registers, the time limits for carrying out the relevant records on the qualitative and quantitative characteristics of the waste, produced or subject to the different treatment activities. Paragraph 12-b intervenes on the provision that allows producers of waste that have not voluntarily joined the SISTRI, with annual production of waste under a certain threshold, to fulfil the obligation of keeping the registers of loading and unloading of waste also through business associations, specifying that they must be original producers of special hazardous and non-dangerous waste from industrial and craft processes and special non-dangerous waste from poting and other water treatment. Paragraph 12-c extends the provisions on the means of transport of waste, laid down in Article 193 of the Environmental Code, to all those who do not voluntarily adhere to SISTRI. Paragraph 13 provides for the submission to Parliament every six months of a report on its work by the technical monitoring and consultation table of the SISTRI. These are the main changes introduced by the House to the decree, and it seems to me that overall they do not upset the plant. Certainly, some changes would be susceptible to further reflection and probably even further corrections, but since they do not alter the decree's layout and being known to all that the decree must be converted by tomorrow, I believe there can be all the conditions for a favourable vote on the text transmitted by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u15	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico commerciale (Pythagoras) in Taranto. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u16	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u17	Mr President, I will not take much time and I will make some general comments. Certainly, as the rapporteur has pointed out, the general layout of this decree is not distorted. There are some improvements and others, in our opinion, which are pejorative, and I would therefore like to take a few articles as an example of what we think is a matter of method. First of all, the ceiling for spending on service cars is further reduced, but this issue is being dealt with in a fragmentary way. We know that with regard to service cars there are other aspects that could perhaps be considered, where we were going to evaluate the matter in its completeness and organicity. For example, does it make sense for service cars to be made available even where the need is not verified? Or that they travel 10 kilometers a day to go from the storehouse to the palace and another 10 kilometers from the palace to the storehouse, to remain unused? It doesn't make sense. In fact, the cutting of service cars should therefore be included in a broader reasoning aimed at ensuring the efficiency of the system. We will never tire of saying that the work to ensure the efficiency of the system must be thought of within an organic framework. It cannot be realized with decree-laws consisting of many different articles. Just as the problem of exodates cannot be solved through such fragmentary work. Behind all the Arctic, in fact, lies the spectre of the Fornero reform. We must realise that this is a problem that must be tackled in an organic way; otherwise, by proceeding by decree, we will never be able to find an answer for all those citizens who are severely penalized and who are in conditions of great suffering because of a reform that, from the outset, has demonstrated all its fragility. Do we want to do this with work within the parliamentary committees? That's our idea. The work carried out within the parliamentary committees allows an organic approach, a real debate, allows us to look for genuine solutions and not to put some pieces here and there. In Article 11 of the measure, once again, the problem of waste is not dealt with in an organic way. In fact, SISTRI is an untested and easily circumventable system; the only test carried out by a professional association has failed. We should recognise, then, that the issue of waste requires independent legislation and an organic and well-connected path. In the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, he rightly points out that by tomorrow this decree-law must be converted into law. This happens when we are in front of decrees. If Parliament had the ease and space to respond to its regulatory function, this bicameralism would not be a system that chokes on regulatory activity, but rather a correct, organic and functioning system of mutual control, discussion and improvement. I take advantage of the few minutes at my disposal to highlight another aspect. We continue, despite the fact that there has been a constant call in this House for a change in our way of working, to work in emergency conditions. On the other hand, the drafts of the Stability and Budgetary Act to be presented on 15 October came to Parliament on 21 October and the tables still later. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen - and I ask everyone, and especially my colleagues in the majority - to give serious thought to the possibility of the opposition being involved in a regulatory process. In fact, you have to realize that we represent 25% of the country, of the voters on whom the laws passed in the parliamentary classrooms will fall anyway. We therefore call once again for the Government to take its executive role decisively, for these classrooms to regain their legislative function and for this very large majority to realize that only through dialogue, only by addressing the problems together with the opposition can we make important changes for the country. Otherwise we will continue with this activity of extensions, displacements, modifications: pieces that fail to heal serious situations, extremely serious. Mr President, thank you, and thank you all for your attention. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u18	Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all remember the debate that took place on this draft law at first reading in the past few weeks. We have all taken note of the critical comments made by the Committees on Employment and the Budget; the very examination and the debate that followed in the Commission and in this House have led to an improvement in the text and, in particular, the provision of rules that we considered wrong and some corrections on rules that could have been used for incorrect interpretations. With regard to the way in which the measure was transmitted to the House of Deputies, we cannot fail to note that some points have been turned back. In particular, I am thinking of extending the period of extension of the rankings and the period during which time contracts may be extended or renewed pending coverage in accordance with normal procedures in public administrations. In this respect, not so much because of the adoption of this measure, which is now on the verge of arrival (there is no more room to correct and improve it), but above all because of the work that awaits us on the next measures, I would like to consider once again the substance of the problem. The audience to which this bill is addressed consists of about 200,000 people, mainly young, of which 120,000 holders of forward contracts and 70,000 to 80,000 are suitable in rankings of competitions celebrated in the past years. So, it's a total of 200,000 people who have aspired to be in charge of public administrations so far. We also know that, if everything goes in the best way, the public administrations themselves will not be able to put in place in the next two or three years more than 10,000-12,000 of these people and therefore no more than one in twenty. If this is the reality then, if this is the hard fact with which we have to deal, we have to ask ourselves what the point is of extending the term contracts and rankings for 200,000 people by offering them a sort of promise (that is, that sooner or later the long-awaited release will take place), knowing that this promise can only be kept for one person in twenty. We have to ask ourselves whether for the other 19 out of 20 people for whom this promise cannot be fulfilled we do a good service, leading them to remain clinging to this perspective, to the ranking in which they have proved suitable and to that precarious job that is renewed to them or if we would not do a much better service by activating procedures that allow us to communicate with the great flow of recruitment that takes place daily, even in this period of severe recession and economic crisis, in the private productive fabric. I recalled in the discussion at first reading that the Italian productive fabric, even in these years of serious crisis, produced over a year, 2012, 1,700,000 permanent employment contracts (I stress): 1,700,000 regular employment contracts that give the stability that these young people aspire to. I therefore ask why we should encourage 200,000 young people to focus on those 10,000-12,000 jobs that public administrations can offer them and instead give up the prospect of entering into the large flow of 1,700,000 contracts that private companies and the productive fabric offer them. This is the basic mistake that we see in this measure, and we see in it the repetition of a practice, of a political custom that has lasted in the past decades, always centered on the use of public administrations as a welfare lung, the only lung able to give a response to the need for employment. This policy has produced only damage: to the public administration, inflating it improperly in its entirety, but also on the side of the interest of the workers. In fact, this way of becoming supernumerable in a productive structure, in some cases in situations where there is no concrete possibility of exploiting one's work - this is the situation in many thousands of companies controlled by public administrations and in the administrations themselves - does not allow to enhance the work of the people, and the work less valued gives a lower pay and less professionalism. We need to stop using administrations in a welfare way, and instead we need to start active labour policies much more robustly, those that allow integration into the productive fabric. For this reason, at first reading, we presented an agenda, which was accepted by the Government, aimed at promoting regional experimentation of the relocation contract, a contract that can truly be the new instrument able to give protection to the continuity of income of the worker and, at the same time, assistance of first order and high quality, and also able to offer employment and professional prospects infinitely better than those we can offer with instruments such as these, essentially of a welfare nature, or with promises destined to remain for nineteen twenty not fulfilled. I conclude by pointing out that the changes made by the House of Members have not improved (if anything from this point of view they have marginally worsened) the text, extending the terms of the extensions; this cannot be welcomed as a positive fact, even if the marginal nature of the amendments is not such as to cause us to change the overall positive assessment that we have expressed on this measure to the outcome of the changes made at first reading. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u20	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u21	Mr President, I just want to make a few political considerations and some references to the content of this measure, which goes back to the Senate for final approval, starting from a general point of view: this is a measure which aims to rationalise public administrations. I have always considered this title a little too emphatic with respect to the content that had already been proposed in the definition of the decree; I do not consider it in line with our idea of rationalization of the public administration. Rationalization means, for example, reducing the bodies that are present, merging functions, managing matters without creating spaces of conflict of competence, i.e. organising public administration to the best of its objectives: ensuring the peaceful coexistence of our society and our community, guaranteeing rights, organising and providing public services to the best. I have to say that unfortunately, however, this is yet another measure that aims at spending, i.e. how to contract it or how to activate it, but choosing roads that are difficult to share. I am immediately attacking the theme: the Agency for Territorial Cohesion. It is said from various quarters that it is not a system for the responsibilities of the Provinces with regard to the Structural Funds; it is said from several quarters that it is a parallel system of support and assistance to the functions to be exercised by local authorities in this area; it is also said that it must speed up the expenditure of the Structural Funds. I would like to remind everyone that we are talking about about 28 billion people who are not used in public coffers, which are no small thing. The reality is that we are building a system parallel to the existing public administration, i.e. we are doubling the actors of the initiative. I should like to mention - and this is not the subject of this measure - the Commissioner for spending review, but we are full of Commissioners and subcommissaries who intervene to speed up the work of the public administration, which, as a matter of fact, we have to extend from time to time because we have not accelerated anything: that is, the Commissioners and subcommissaries who intervene in an emergency situation do so in order to overcome the emergency; if we continue Commissioners and subcommissaries, the result is that the emergency is never overcome and therefore means that the instrument that we have identified based on Commissioners and subcommissaries does not work. [[Applause from Senator Morra]] Then there are agencies, interministerial committees and scientific committees. Even in this measure we are building a parallel public administration and we would have one on one side and one on the other, which will not meet, which will still give rise to a conflict of competence and will lead to a slowdown in expenditure, not its acceleration. I say this, Mr President, despite the fact that there are, of course, certain measures in the Decree-Law under consideration which we welcome, although we consider them insufficient, in relation to the system of public precariousness (the extensions are better than nothing). There is, however, a philosophy contained in this provision and that we identify in all the measures baked by the government at an accelerated rate - I would say -. The philosophy is as follows: a centralization operation, the construction of a parallel public administration, a weakening of its own premises, of those provided for in the order, of the overall apparatus of local authorities and self-governments and then not an acceleration of expenditure, but in fact a slowing down of its own, because this is an already experienced path. What, then, is the reason for the criticism? The reason is that perhaps the government does not want to spend the public resources present and not spend. The Minister came to talk to us about 28 billion Structural Funds and the Agency was set up; he spoke of 40 billion FAS funds and we added 54 more to a Cohesion and Development Fund. All these resources have not been spent because the public administration does not work and if it does not work there is no parallel, which does not meet the existing one, which costs double and has no effect. If we do this sort of thing after a measure, perhaps, Mr President, we do not want to spend money; that is, we do not want to put this money into the economic system and we do not want to do it to achieve GDP. We are so, that is, in these years we have decided to make an economic policy of contraction of consumption, of contraction of growth, or rather of reduction of GDP, because so we also contain the dimension of the deficit; that is, there is an aggression of the public debt that we intend to achieve through an overall impoverishment of the country and through a reduction of its productive capacity. [[Applause from Senator Morra.]] Moreover, since public administration is crucial to this objective, we are looking for tools, cumbersome procedures, duplication of decision-making venues, multiplication of conflicts of competence, in order to reduce the capacity, the potential of the public system to create economy. Then it will be said: We tried it in every way, we also made commissioners and sub-commissiars, agencies and scientific committees, but we did not succeed. We entrust the most important and productive part of the public apparatus to the private system because they will be able to operate and provide services. This is also how we find in these days' discussions, by Confindustria and beyond, positions aimed at reducing the perimeter of public influence and the public system and at transferring those services, activities, objectives and functions to the business system and the private system. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u22	I address a greeting to the students of the Scuola Medio Statale (Scuola Medio Statale) " Salvo D'Acquisto" (Salvo D'Acquisto) of Cerveteri, in the province of Rome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u23	The general debate is closed. Since the 5th standing Commission will meet at 1 p.m. to express its opinion on the amendments tabled to the Decree-Law, and also in relation to the convening of the Conference of the Leaders, which will also be held at 1 p.m. and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we will have to suspend work until 4.30 p.m. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to reply now or to resume work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u24	Mr President, I would prefer to respond to the resumption of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u25	It seems to me right that the rapporteur should be able to respond to the presence of Mr D'Alia, who will be present in this House. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 10.54 a.m. and resumed at 16.31 a.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, pending the receipt of the opinion of the Budget Committee, which has just finished its work, I shall suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.32 a.m. and resumed at 17.33 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u26	Let's resume our work. The Conference of Leaders approved by a majority changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 22 November. This afternoon and - if necessary - tomorrow will continue, until its conclusion, the examination of the decree-law in the matter of public administration. Next week, the Assembly will meet again on Tuesday afternoon, November 5, at 3 p.m. for the holding of the inspection union. At 5 p.m. - when the prescribed procedure is completed - the examination of the internal budget and of the Senate's statement will begin, which will continue - until its conclusion - at the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 6. At its afternoon session on Wednesday 6 November and Thursday 7, the Assembly will discuss the decree-law on education, university and research, which is being examined in the Chamber of Deputies and is due to expire on Monday 11 November. Then the inspection union will follow. The Assembly will not hold meetings from 11 to 15 November in conjunction with the work of the 5th standing committee on the draft stability and budgetary law. The debate in the Assembly on the draft stability and budgetary law will take place from the afternoon sitting on Monday 18 November. The timing was divided between the Groups in order to allow its conclusion by Friday 22 November. Finally, with regard to the progress of the work of the Permanent Commissions on financial documents, the Conference of the Capigroup postponed the deadline for the submission of reports to the 5th Commission on Thursday 31 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u27	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes and additions to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly's proceedings until 22 November 2013: [[Tuesday 29 October ant. h. 9,30 - Drawing of law n. 1015-B - Decree-Law n. 101, public administration (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 30 October) Wednesday 30 " ant. h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] [[Tuesday, November 5 pom. h. 15 - Questions and questions - Doc. VIII, Nos. 1 and 2 - Internal budget and accounts of the Senate (from 5 p.m.) Wednesday 6 November ant. 9.30 a.m. - Follow-up Doc. VIII, Nos. 1 and 2 - Internal budget and Senate statement Wednesday 6 November pom. h. 16-20,30 - Drawing of law n.... Decree-Law n. 104, education, university and research (Ove approved and transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade 11 November) - Questiones and questions Thursday 7 " ant. h. 9,30]] Agendas to the Docs. VIII, Nos. 1 and 2 (Internal Budget and Senate Statement) must be submitted by 7 p.m. on Thursday 31 October. The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No... (Decree-Law No 104, Education, University and Research) will be set in relation to the transmission times of the Chamber of Deputies. The Assembly will not hold meetings between 11 and 15 November in order to enable the 5th Permanent Commission to examine the financial documents. The 5th Permanent Commission will conclude its examination of the draft Stability and Budget Act by Friday 15 November; the debate in the Assembly will begin from the afternoon sitting on Monday 18 November. Amendments to the draft stability and budgetary law should be submitted to the Assembly by 1 p.m. on Saturday 16 November. [[Monday 18 November ant. h. 11-14 - Legal drawings no. 1120 and 1121 - Stability Act 2014 and Budget Act 2014-2016 (Final ratings with the presence of the quorum) " " " pom. h. 16 Tuesday 19 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16-20,30 Wednesday 20 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16-20,30 Thursday 21 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16-20.30 Friday 22 " ant. h. 9,30]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1015-B (Decree-Law No 101, Public Administration) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 30' Government 30' Votes 1 h. Groups 3 hours, of which: PD 42' PdL 37' M5S 25' SCp 17' LN-Aut 16' Mixed 16' GAL 14' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 14' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 104, education, university and research) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 09' PdL 1 h. 01' M5S 42' SCP 28' LN-Aut 26' Mixed 26' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 23' Dissentents 5']] Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 1120 and 1121 (Stability 2014 and Budget 2014-2016) (31 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 3 h. Minority Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 3 h. Votes 5 h. Groups 19 hours, of which: PD 4 h. 23' PdL 3 h. 53' M5S 2 h. 40' SCP 1 h. 47' LN-Aut 1 h. 40' Mixed 1 h. 40' GAL 1 h. 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 1 h. 29' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u30	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, as you know, at the Conference of the Leaders, the 5 Star Movement voted against the proposed timetable. We wanted to remember that the 5 Star Movement and all honest Italians ask that the Severino law be respected, which provides for the immediate vote on the decadence. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A month has already passed since the vote in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities: politics has once again given a month to the convicted Berlusconi. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PdL Group]] Thirty days of further tensions and attacks on our country's institutions are too many. For this reason, we believed that all sides today were ready to do what is right: apply the law. On the other hand, something very different happened at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders today: the parties refused to set a certain and imminent date for the discussion of the decadence in this House. Excuse me? Wait until the Committee on the Rules of Procedure decides whether to vote with a clear vote, as we have always requested, or with a secret vote. I am very sorry that, regardless of the mode, we will still have to vote. The parties tried to give Berlusconi another month of time. We, unlike others, have clear ideas on the point: we must go to the vote as soon as possible. No delay can be justified. November 5 is a date far too far to guarantee the respect of the will of the Italians. For that day we were proposed to put the Senate budget to the vote for 2013: to say that there is urgency, after ten months of delay, is to say the least ridiculous. We ask that the sessions proposed in the Conference of the Leaders on this subject, and not approved by the 5 Star Movement, be devoted to the discussion and vote on the decadence of the Knight Berlusconi and that instead the budget of the Senate be scheduled for the week from 11 to 15 November, which does not include plenary work. At the same time, we call for the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to continue to be convened in such a time as to guarantee the outcome of the vote. November 5 must be the final day to close an issue that has been open for too long: the vote in the Chamber on Silvio Berlusconi's decadence, because the law is the same for all and our country, our justice cannot tolerate that there are citizens more equal than others. [[Applause from the M5S Group. The Senators of the M5S Group stand up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u31	Senator Taverna, if I understand correctly, you are asking, as a change to the timetable, for the vote on the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to be scheduled on 5 November. TAVERNA (M5S). You understand perfectly, President Calderoli. I had no doubt.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u34	CASINI (SCPI). Mr President, we, on the other hand, express our confidence in the President of the Senate. We do not consider it a minimal problem to choose between secret voting and clear voting, because this House is committed to respecting the rules of the rule of law. [[Applause from Senator Lezzi]] And I would like to inform the Senator who preceded me that beheading is not provided for in the Senate Rules of Procedure. We're not playing here. I understand you have to look good with Cricket in the stands. [[Applause from the PDL Group and the LAGs and from the government benches. Ironic applause from the M5S Group),]] But the problem is another: the problem is that this Senate is obliged to loosen a knot that is serious. [[Comments of the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u35	Colleagues, please! CASINI (SCPI). Look, I remember some student assembly as well, so if you want to interrupt me, I'm in no hurry, I can stay here as long as you want.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u36	[[Senator Lezzi's comments.]] This is about being serious! The President of the Senate has established... [[Comments of the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u37	Colleagues, shall we stop? CASINI (SCPI). Go on, look, it's not a problem. If you want to come here too and have a debate. The President of the Senate is in the process of drafting an opinion in Junta which is extremely serious, since it concerns the fundamental rule that lays down the procedures by which we will have to decide whether or not a senator is forfeited. Whether it's called Berlusconi or Pinco Pallino doesn't change anything, because this is a fundamental problem and legal certainty must apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u38	[[Comments of the M5S Group.]] Therefore, I do not think it is right to change the set timetable and I am opposed to the proposal of my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u41	Martini (PD). Mr President, on behalf of the Democratic Party, I was present at the Conference of Leaders who addressed this issue. On this point, President Grasso made a very precise commitment: as soon as the Council for the Rules of Procedure has completed its examination of the issues for its attention, the Conference of the Leaders will meet to decide on the timetable. This remains faithful, and I believe we must move in this direction. So, we'll approve the calendar. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] On the other hand, if the Council for the Rules of Procedure will soon finish its work and the Conference of the Leaders will be able to schedule the decision on Berlusconi's decadence on any date, including 5 November, we are ready, but I think it is right that the correct procedure be followed: let's finish the work of the Council and then the Conference of the Leaders will schedule a date. TAVERNA (M5S). It is not written in the procedure that an amendment of the Rules of Procedure is required to enforce the law... [[Comments of the M5S Group. PdL Group protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u42	Colleagues, excuse me: I am sorry that among the many calls to institutional responsibility we also do not think that there is a decree-law that expires this evening and that perhaps we should first convert!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u43	[[Applause from the PD, PdL and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u46	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President, I took part in the Conference of Group Leaders and took note of the Presidency's proposal for a timetable, which, in my opinion, did not adequately include the inclusion of this topic in the agenda until the end of the examination of the stability bill, and this for various reasons. On the one hand, during the examination of the financial maneuver we have rules that provide that only the discussion of decrees-laws or drafts of law which, if they involve expenditure, postulate the unanimous agreement of the Groups; on the other hand, there is an ongoing debate on the interpretation of a rule which, in my opinion, is evidence of its applicability, i.e. that relating to the secret vote under Article 113 (3) that has never been called into question. At the same time, at the end of a week's suspension of the Assembly's work, it is hoped that the 5th Commission will be able to examine the draft financial law. These reasons have led the Presidency not to foresee the inclusion in the timetable of the debate on forfeiture. Let me turn to those who want to turn this House into a firing squad by speeding up delicate issues: today, with the filing of the grounds for the judgment, the judges of the appeal court have introduced new elements on the principle of the irretroactivity of the Severino law, because the revocation was judged by the appeal judges as administrative sanction; as such, the provision of Article 1 of Law No 689 of 1981 is valid: "No one can be subjected to this - colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, this is law and I believe that you know the laws [[Comments from the M5S Group) -]] It shall be administrative sanctions except under a law which entered into force before the commission of the infringement. This is a sensitive issue, and it is delicate to note that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is considering the interpretation of a rule that has always been clearly applied in the secret vote, and with an opinion (I said it at the Conference of Parents) it is likely that it is going to proceed by majority to change its content radically, violating those rules which, as a garrison of our parliamentary democracy, provide for the Regulations to be changed according to procedures and, that is, by providing for an examination in the Junta and then in the Chamber. It's moving on. I know that the Junta was even convened this evening, as if there were a deadline tomorrow. We have a deadline: that of the decree-law provided for in the agenda. I am surprised and I am sorry that President Grasso is not here to listen to me, because I would like to ask him, with respect, why he even called the Junta this evening: perhaps for night work? Maybe because you want to speed up a vote? Mr President, we respect the rules, but we will not be overwhelmed by the violation of the rules and the ignition of tones. We respect democracy, we respect this Parliament, but we will in no way accept that the rights of any citizen, the rights of any senator, the rights of Senator Silvio Berlusconi are trampled on! We are for the rule of law, we are for this House to be able to work peacefully on the issues on the agenda, and then to deal with the issue of decadence. When the right time comes, we will not get away from that debate. However, I ask President Grasso to submit the issue to the election board in the light of the new decision of the appeal court that opens up new reflections, new perspectives... [[Comments of the 5 Star Movement Group.]] It is useless for you to do so because the judgments of the court of appeal must be respected: when it suits you, they must be respected, when it is not appropriate for you to do so. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] So let's agree. If there are judgments, they must be respected! We are all parliamentarians, and we cannot play every other day. The judgment is clear and states that the revocation is an administrative penalty; as such, under a law of the State, it cannot be retroactive. This is state law. If you are here, you must accept these rules in compliance with comparison and dialectic. Mr President, we will reject the 5 Star Movement's proposal to include this subject in the agenda. I also address my colleagues in the Democratic Party who have taken note of that timetable today and approved it: we are working on the stability law, we are working on what needs to be addressed by this House. We will not get away from dealing with this issue, but when the time is ripe, when the work on the Rules is completed and when we have given the country, at first reading, a financial maneuver that is necessary for growth and development, for our children, our country, our nation. This is important, this is necessary, and we will not compromise on this. We will not let anyone overtake us, nor will we subjugate any kind of imposition by blows of majorities. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u49	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have heard that the leader of the PdL, Mr Schifani, also calls everyone to respect the sentences. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] That's new, too, but that's okay. With regard to the timetable, today we held a debate on the substance which also addressed the issue of the inclusion of the Junta's proposal on the validation of Senator Berlusconi. As far as we are concerned, we have taken note of the commitment made by President Grasso - of which we certainly could not doubt - to the fact that the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups would meet immediately after the decision of the Junta to include that vote on the agenda. Then, however, Senator Schifani's intervention took place and we must consider what is happening in the Junta for the Rules of Procedure, where surreptitiously some elements have been introduced, such as that relating to the motivation of the judgment of the Milan Court of Appeal and others. Moreover, I believe that broad reasons have been given, also by Senator Finocchiaro, who have largely dismantled the considerations on the Milan judgment and the fact that the incandidability provided for by the Severino law would be an administrative sanction. They have been put in place, and continue to be carried out, by the PdL Group within the Council for the Rules of Procedure clear attempts to prolong the decision of the Council itself, with arguments that I do not consider absolutely appropriate; on the contrary, I believe they are presumptuous issues that lead me to consider this obstructive attitude. The aim is not to make the Council decide on the Rules of Procedure. That is why, at this point, I think it is appropriate for the Assembly to set a timetable, as proposed by Senator Taverna, for next November 5th, the date for examining the report of the election and immunity committee, precisely in order to prevent further obstructive and dilated manoeuvres over time, as is happening now in the junta for the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u52	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, as you know, I took part in the meetings of the election committee as a member of that body. One of the things about the decision made and the arguments put forward by colleagues who did not think like me and like others was the fact that the famous provision of Article 3 of the Severino law was a requirement, a precondition, and not a sanction. In this sense, it was necessary to reconsider, and in this regard the judgments of the Council of State and the Administrative Court have been cited (I believe I am not mistaken in saying that one was of 2003 and the other was of 2007). Now there is a new fact, a fact which cannot be implied, which must be taken into account, because it is a precise judgment. I do not get caught up in the polemic of those who cannot quote the sentences because they have commented on them before. Instead, I allow myself to be involved in a statement which, in my conscience, I believe is a duty for every Member of Parliament, namely the fact that in this House we are trying to assert the right and to give a fair response to the mandate that we must interpret. And in this sense, within the same speech made in order to say that I am opposed, of course, to the proposal to amend the timetable of work which the Conference of Leaders has hesitated by majority, where the 5 Star Movement is dissenting, I intend to reiterate an issue which I have put in Junta for the Rules of Procedure just now and which, precisely because of the reasoning put forward, I propose again in the Chamber. The work of the Board for the Rules of Procedure is governed by Article 18 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and, in particular, what we are doing is regulated by paragraph 3 of the same article, where it is provided that the Board is responsible for the initiative or examination of any proposal of... PRESIDENT. Excuse me, Senator Ferrara, but we are deciding on the timetable, we are not talking about the powers of the President. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Yes, Mr President, but in order to save time, I believe that it could be inductive in relation to the decision to be taken that the proposed timetable for the work of the House cannot be changed because this is also relevant - as Senator Martini said - to the debate on the Junta for the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, Senator Schifani's intervention, which widens the whole debate, places me the duty to make another observation, namely that we are regulating the work of the House in order to proceed with the conversion into law of a decree, but - and I do not know where else to say so, since I have already said so in the Junta, where my request has not been fulfilled - I do not understand why we must once again assemble the Junta for the Rules of Procedure at the end of the proceedings of the Chamber, since this body is gathering itself by forcing the provision of paragraph 3 of Article 18, which does not provide that the Junta can be convened. Therefore, in this way we do not convert the decree, we work in Junta, and we want to get this body to work to convene then another Conference of the Leaders presumably to put to the attention of the Assembly the vote on the decadence of Silvio Berlusconi: all this seems like a crazy story. It is a crazy story to change the timetable; it is a crazy story to have suspended the work of the House for an hour, Mr President, because the opinion of the Budget Commission had not yet been prepared, when we know that, as has always been the case in the past, it is sufficient to suspend the work for ten minutes. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Sonego (PD). Rules of Procedure! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, stay calm. Senator Ferrara has ten minutes at his disposal. I have already referred him to this subject. There are no crazy proposals that have been made, because they are laid down in our Rules of Procedure. So just intervene on that, Senator Ferrara. FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, if you, on the basis of the prerogatives of the Presidency provided for in Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, ask me to confine myself to the subject under discussion, I will do so. It was not done otherwise for the speeches that preceded me, both Senator De Petris and Senator Martini. At this point, I reserve the right to speak once I have voted on the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u54	For what, Senator Casson? Senator Martini has already spoken for his Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u55	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I am speaking formally to present an autonomous proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's no longer possible, Senator Casson. CASSON (PD). I'll do it on the schedule. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The proposal should have been put forward at the beginning of the debate on the proposed changes to the timetable, and we are at the conclusion. CASSON (PD). Mr President, I had asked to speak in dissent at the beginning of the debate, or to consider an individual proposal; then the debate began, but I believe that some considerations and reflections on this matter should be made. It has been pointed out to me that it would have been appropriate formally to make an autonomous proposal on the timetable and, therefore, that is what I am proposing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's not the stage. CASSON (PD). Then I ask you to intervene in dissent. As you prefer: for me it is indifferent. All I need to do is think about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u56	Senator Casson, I am sorry to have to disappoint you, but unfortunately this article of the Rules of Procedure does not even provide for dissent: there is specifically a speech for the Group for no more than ten minutes. CASSON (PD). President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: PRESIDENT. - The debate is If we want to discuss the decision of the Milan Court of Appeal there are the speeches at the end of the sitting, and those who want to try this debate will do so on that occasion. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] CASSON (PD). As they concern the calendar... president. Senator Casson, I'm sorry, but I have to take your word off, and I'm gonna do it with regret.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u59	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have voted on the timetable because we believe that an instrumental game is being played around an apparent procedure, all different from the content of a proposal and from a series of deadlines that we have, as you rightly pointed out, Mr President, with regard to expired decrees. Moreover, anyone who opposes or wants an informal inclusion of another item on the agenda does so knowing that that same force had proposed the debate, opened in Junta for the Rules of Procedure, on how to express the vote, whether secret or not, pretending, in the light of the fact that one does not know what principle to make public to the people, to have to make public a vote that concerns the person.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u60	Excuse me, Senator Divine: the same speech I have already made is worth it. This is being discussed in Junta. Today we must decide, as proposed, whether to vote on something on 5 November, not to debate the secret vote or the obvious vote in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u61	Mr President, allow me only a few minutes (I will not use all the time) to finish a reasoning that can be useful to all Members of this House. One of the great achievements has been the possibility for every Member of Parliament to express himself freely and conscientiously. Our Rules of Procedure take up a general principle that, when discussing the person (this establishes Article 113 (3)), the vote must be secret, in order to remove the fate of a person from contingent interests, from games, from exploitations. At this moment, even medialy, there is such a pressure that a non-secret vote, which would be a twist, could alter the true will. Every single Member is not even tied to his own party: there is not even the constraint of the imperative mandate, and this is precisely to sanction the freedom of expression of every individual. We want this to continue, because it has been a conquest achieved with great sacrifices. You'd like to screw it up instead. We vote on this timetable, we voted on it at the Conference of the Leaders, we will hold the floor here in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u62	I would like to remind you that we do not secretly vote on the timetable: we will vote on it in a clear form; therefore we cannot open a debate on an issue that has absolutely nothing to do with it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Having no further requests for intervention, I shall put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Taverna, to schedule for 5 November the vote on the opinion of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in relation to Senator Berlusconi. It's not approved. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u65	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in accordance with Rule 114 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, given that some senators voted as they walked, and the result of the vote was not very clear and clear, I would ask you, kindly, to try again, in order to avoid any kind of doubt. [[Comments from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u66	Senator Santangelo, to please you, let's rehearse. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PdL Group]] Colleagues, I still cannot understand how people with parliamentary experience do not know that it takes much less time to do the counterproof than to challenge it. [[Applause.]] I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. I remember that it is forbidden to take photographs in the Chamber. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u69	FALANGA (PdL). Mr President, I do not believe that you should govern this work on the basis of convenience, given that you said it was more convenient and you wasted less time doing the counterproof. You must govern the House on the basis of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u70	Thank you, Senator Falanga. We shall now proceed to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u71	I ask you to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u72	Senator Ferrara, if you're going to tell me that, when you look at the clear result of the vote, you can reject the request for counterproof, I have to say that I know this rule too.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u73	FERRARA Mario (GAL). No, Mr President, I would like to talk about an issue which has already been raised at the Conference of the Leaders and which I raised again in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure but has not had any consequences, so I am putting it officially in the Chamber. The sitting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which was suspended by President Grasso, brings to the first item on the agenda the continuation of the debate on the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, to the second point the interpretative questions on how to vote in the Assembly. Paragraph 3 of Article 18 provides that: It is up to the Council to decide on the initiative or examination of any proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure and its opinion on questions of interpretation........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At this point it would therefore seem that the Council for the Rules of Procedure is convened at this time pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article 18, but the final part of paragraph 3 refers to interpretations of the Rules of Procedure submitted to it by the President of the Senate. It happens, however, that we are not discussing a proposal from the President of the Senate, but, as can be read from the report of the session of the Council for the Rules of Procedure of 15 October, on a proposal made by Senators Santangelo and Buccarella, for which the President instructed the Senators Russo and Bernini to instruct the issue. The problem is as follows. I would like to put to the House a question relating to the sitting of the Junta which is being held. I would also like to ask whether or not the President has the power, in accordance with Rule 8, which gives him the prerogative to ask questions, to ask the Committee on the Rules of Procedure questions which are not his own, and also to the fact that the question of the interpretation of the vote by Senators Buccarella and Santangelo does not appear in relation to an eventuality of the House, because we have not yet been called upon to vote on the decadence of Senator Berlusconi. Therefore, there is a question of interpretation in violation of the practice which instructs the President to put the matter at the time when it finds out. [[Comments of Senator Casini]] I therefore call for a sitting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, as I have already done without a result, to decide whether the President of the Senate at this moment keeps the session of the Board on the Rules of Procedure in violation of the Rules of Procedure or with an interpretation that has no precedent of the same Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u74	Senator Ferrara, if the question of interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is entrusted, as you informed the Assembly, to the Council for the Rules of Procedure, which is now suspended and will then come back to meet, you will be answered in that place. There is another question, which I raise personally, as Vice President protempore: if we have decided to make the decree-law lapse, let's say so now. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] BULGARRELLI (M5S). Just tell us, we're ready!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u77	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President, Senator Ferrara's speech goes hand in hand with what I have just said, and I would like to go further so that it remains in the proceedings. I have already said what I will say at the Conference of the Leaders in order to remain entrusted to the proceedings of the Conference: now, as we are discussing this issue, I think it is necessary to make this clear in this House. I believe that a violation of the rules on the protection of the principles governing the amendment of the Rules of Procedure is being carried out. We have rules; the Rules of Procedure are amended on the basis of proposals that are filed in the Junta; it discusses them, instructs them, approves them, the doors in the Chamber, as if they were a law. That's not the case here. In this case, through a surreptitious method, I would say almost devious, a new principle is being introduced, namely that through a majority interpretation given by the members of the Junta the content of an article with another content is being renewed, because this is the opinion proposed by the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] Attention. This is what I am denouncing in this House to protect the rules, which guarantee the functioning of the whole Senate and which can affect each of you or us. The Rules of Procedure cannot be changed, as the President of the Senate is endorsing, through a majority opinion, through a non-innovative interpretation, totally different from the norm that is to be interpreted. I call on my fellow Members to check the opinion they want to vote on the text of the rule: these are completely different concepts; they cannot be given as interpretives, Mr President. And then I denounce in this House, assuming full responsibility for what I say, that this state of affairs cannot go on. The work of the Junta must be interrupted. The President of the Senate, whom I ask to be here to listen to me, because I am sorry that he is not there, must take responsibility for what he is endorsing, because we all have responsibilities, we have all played institutional roles and we have all tried to guarantee the rules. And the current President must also guarantee these rules. Because the rules are there to be respected. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] And so, I turn to the Presidency, to my colleagues, to all my colleagues, also to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, because friends, when these procedures are adopted, they may happen to be intended for others: do not forget that the wheel spins. Then we protect a heritage of principles, of ethical principles, of ethical principles, of institutional principles, because if we alter and trample on these procedures, these principles, we lose credibility, in authority, we strike a majority on mechanisms that are, on the contrary, a fundamental value of our parliamentary democracy. And I appeal from this House, not only to President Grasso, but to the whole of this House, to ensure that there is a whirlwind of dignity and to prevent the Junta from working by majority on a change that it cannot adopt according to that criterion. We respect the principles, we respect the rules, we protect all of us. This is our country, the cradle of law, the cradle of democracy. Let us defend him in this way, all of us, beyond the ranks. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u80	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I believe that the House should take up the invitation you made earlier to discuss the decree-law on the agenda. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] I would also like to add two considerations with great serenity, and I would also like to address President Schifani, who has spoken with great passion. It seems to me that if there is one thing, in the management of the affair to which President Schifani referred without naming it, that was used with great width was the strict attention to the rules. In the procedures that the Senate has adopted so far in the matter - let us be clear - that concerns the decadence of Senator Silvio Berlusconi have been used all possible cautions. Perhaps, Mr Schifani, you have not been well informed of the progress of the work of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure was convened by the President, at the request of a large parliamentary group, and is trying to open an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure in a completely new situation. And I want to say - and I say this to all the Members of this House - that this is the moment when, in our country, we need the rules to be followed carefully by everyone. Following the rules means following the laws of the State; following the rules means following the regulations of the Senate; following the rules also means having respect for the sentences of the Italian judiciary and trying to give the sentences the execution they must have: this is the respect of the rules. [[Applause from the PD Group]] PALMA (PdL). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u81	Senator Palma, if it is on the subject that we are discussing in the Rules of Procedure and that we have improperly introduced into this House, I am sorry, but I no longer give the floor to anyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u82	Let us resume the discussion of bill 1015-B. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u83	Mr President, I am aware that time is running out and that this decree must be converted to protect people who do not have protection and have no privileges. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] It must be converted to protect people who, if anything, from politics initially had favors, but today live a situation of great precariousness. Therefore, I give up my reply. [[Applause from the PD and SCP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u84	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u85	Mr President, I also give up my reply. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u86	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u87	The Commission's economic planning, budget, examined the measure in title, expresses, as far as its own competence, opinion of nulla precludes, with the following premises: - regarding Article 1, paragraph 8, the obligation, under the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Economy and Finance, to arrange, at least once a year, inspection visits to the public administrations is compatible with the financial resources available, in current legislation; - regarding Article 2, paragraph 8-a, the extension of the positions of command of the non-directorial staff of the provinces can be carried out in variance with expenditure; - no additional charges arise from Article 4, paragraph 1, point a-a), which provides for the subscription by the public administrations, of fixed-term contracts with the winners and the appropriate of their graduations in force for public contests without a time limit; - the application of the provision referred to in the preceding introductory paragraph shall be placed within the framework of the assumptions of the administrations concerned; - with regard to Article 49 paragraph 9, the extension of the term contracts by the public administrations is compatible with the sole use of the resources available under Article 7, Article 10, Article 10, Article 10, Article 9, Article 10, Article 10, and the provisions are actually covered by the resources set to cover referred to cover of which are laid down by the provisions laid down by the provisions laid down in Article 10, Article 10, The opinion is of simple contrarability, limited to article 4, paragraph 10-b with the following observation: - in order to guarantee the effective absence of onerous effects, the application of article 4, paragraph 10-b on the reorganization of the Italian Red Cross, must be preceded by a punctual reconnaissance of the staff to whom the norm is addressed; in any case, before the transfer in mobility to other public administrations, it is necessary to ensure the integral respect of the constraints imposed by Decree-Law No. 95 of 2012 converted, with modifications, from Law No. 135 of 2012, on the reduction of the staff, as well as from the other limiting norms of the assumptions of the public administrations. In relation to the amendments, the opinion is opposed, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to proposals 4-a.100, 4-a. 101 and 8,100. On the remaining amendments, the opinion is not precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u88	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1 of the draft law. I note that the amendments are intended to refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views. I would remind you that Amendment 1.1 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u89	I am against Amendment 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u90	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u91	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senators Bisinella and Calderoli to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 1,100. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and of an agenda relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views. The Presidency, in accordance with the provisions of the Commission, declares amendment 2.1 and agenda G3.100 inadmissible, as they relate to parts of the decree-law not amended by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u92	I am against Amendments Nos 2,100 and 2.101, and I am in favour of the inclusion of the G2,100 agenda, if reworded with the addition of the words:'save the needs of public finance', after the words 'take urgent measures'.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u93	I agree with the rapporteur. Mr Pizzetti (PD). I welcome the proposal to reformulate the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u94	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u97	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u98	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.101, tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We proceed to the examination of the agendas referred to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be illustrated and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u99	Of course, I am in favour of the G3200 agenda. The opinion is also in favour of the G3101 agenda, provided that the words "to give" are removed in the device until "to be" is reworded with the commitment to the Government to consider whether it should be foreseen.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u100	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u101	Senator Bencini, do you accept the proposal for reformulation put forward by the rapporteur? BENCINI (M5S). President, yesterday in the Commission the representative of the Government asked us to remove the first two lines of the device and to introduce the words "to consider taking any appropriate initiative so that..."
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u102	I call on Senator Bencini to consider that the Commission's G3200 agenda absorbs the G3.101. BENCINI (M5S). All right, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u103	Having been accepted by the Government, the G3200 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and of an agenda relating to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u104	Mr President, Amendment 4.1 is withdrawn, partly because it is replaced by the G4100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u105	Mr President, the content of the G4100 agenda has been reworded and accepted by the Government in the first Commission. Therefore, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u106	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u107	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u108	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u109	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u110	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u113	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Rule 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u114	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senators Bisinella and Calderoli to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 4,100. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 4101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would point out that the first part of Amendment 4101, tabled by Senators Biinella and Calderoli, has been voted by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. The remaining part of amendment 4101 and amendment 4102 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.103. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.103 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). [[Senator Ciampollo's protests.]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B CHAMPOLLO (M5S). They voted for President Gasparri twice! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But if President Gasparri is in the Chamber! [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Colleagues, the secretary senators don't report any irregularities to me, so the protests are useless. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4104. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4104 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u117	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I apologise, but Mr Ciampollo pointed out in good time that the Vice President of the Senate's position was voting alone. Therefore, since it is not a practice that is possible in this House, I would ask you to take the appropriate measures and to make known to the Secretaries of this practice that is not feasible at all. [[Protests from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u118	Senator Santangelo, to close the vote I have waited for the presence of the interested ones; therefore, the vote took place according to regularity. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4105. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4105 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u120	About what? If you are still on this issue, I do not give you the floor. We checked with the Senators about the senator's presence. If the subject is different, you have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u121	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). There is no proxy vote... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Comments from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u122	We've already closed the accident, which wasn't there because the senators were present. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4106. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4106 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.07. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.07 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.108. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.108 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.109. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.109 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.10 Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.110, tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.11 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.112. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.12 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.113. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.13 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.14 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.15 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.16 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.117. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.117, tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.118. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4.118 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.19. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 4.19 tabled by Senators Bisinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. Amendment 4.1 and the G4100 agenda have been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 4-a.100 and 4-a.101 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment and the agenda referred to in Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u123	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u124	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u125	In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 8,100 is impervious. Senator Bisinella, do you insist on voting on the agenda G8.100 (text 2)? Bisinella (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G8100 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G8.100 (text 2), tabled by Senators Biinella and Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 4015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u126	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. I give a favourable opinion on the agendas G11.100 and G11.102 if reworded by introducing the words "to assess the appropriateness". I am against the order of business, Mr G11.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u127	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u130	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, I apologise but, given the speed of work, I did not have the opportunity to make a speech which I wanted to make on Amendment 8,100. I should like to ask if I can explain this briefly now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Unfortunately, Senator Biinella, you cannot do this, because this type of intervention is not allowed. Bisinella (LN-Aut). Can I then speak on the agenda G8.100? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator, that's not possible. Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, I just wanted to point out to the House, but above all to the Minister that, precisely because of the speed of work, because of what happened earlier, I reserve the right to make a brief reference to the Assembly and the Government at the time of the explanation of vote on an unfortunate matter relating to Article 8, to an amendment approved to the Senate and rejected to the House, which had received a favourable opinion from the rapporteur and the Government and had been approved in the Commission. It deserves special attention. I simply ask for some attention and I reserve the right to explain it in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u131	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u134	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Rule 11.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u135	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Arrigoni and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 11,100. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,101. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,101 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,102. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11,102 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,103. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11,103 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,104. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11,104, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. On the G11.100 agenda, the Government issued a call for rewording, in the sense of including in the device the words: "to assess the opportunity". I ask the first presenter, Senator Arrigoni, if he accepts this reformulation. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G11.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. On the agenda, Mr G11.101, I would ask the first presenter, Senator Arrigoni, if he insists on the vote. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the order of G11.101, presented by Senators Arrigoni and Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1015-B PRESIDENT. On the agenda, Mr G11.102, the Government called for reformulation. I ask the first presenter, Senator Arrigoni, if he accepts this reformulation. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G11.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u138	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, I understand that there may sometimes be problems with nails and nails that are not smooth, but it is about sixty times that Senator Romani votes for the young lady by her side, Senator Rossi, who is still not voting. Since the Rules of Procedure, as you mentioned the other day, say that the vote must be personal, I would ask you to take the appropriate measures. [[Protests from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u139	Colleagues, I say to those who were absent that a wide debate took place between myself and several colleagues. Senator Rossi is sitting in her seat. However, I will refer the matter to the junta of the Rules of Procedure, which has many interpretations to give.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u142	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be voting in favour of this conversion, even though the work done in the Senate in the House has been in many respects upset. A text came back that wasn't the one we fired in the Senate. We find it a little strange that the government has not sufficiently defended the work done in this branch of Parliament. With regard to amendment 1.23, which concerned teachers of religion, the House was rejected, and only because of the fact that we care about the conversion of this decree this time did we not conduct a battle. A very precise agenda has been adopted by the Government, for which we will ensure that the promises made can be kept, because this is a matter of substantive justice. Other amendments have been tabled in the same way. Therefore, in pointing out that we really have come to the fruit of this perfect bicameralism, which in the formation of laws creates unbearable discrepancies... (Brussio).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u143	Colleagues, last time we suspended the sitting, and I am ready to do so again on this occasion. There are a number of explanations of vote, which I think will be very short, so we need each one to be able to argue his or her reasons. Otherwise, we suspend the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u144	Mr President, I am going to conclude, but not without first drawing the attention of this House, also because of the dignity of Parliament and the Senate, that we really have had to undergo treatment in our relations with the other House this time, which we consider to be inappropriate and appropriate. We also entrust to the forthcoming institutional reforms the solution of the problems we have experienced. However, we shall vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]] 18.41 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u147	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, there would be a lot to say, both on the substance of the changes made and on the legislative procedure: we will do it again. For now, I am simply announcing my Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PDL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u150	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we shall vote against the conversion of this decree-law. At first reading, here in the Senate, we had done a considerable amount of work, with the presentation of many amendments, which did not have much luck. They dealt mainly with three issues that were particularly dear to us, and in general the issue of precarious persons, which was subsequently further modified by the House. Unfortunately, the work of the Senate - and therefore of the Government and the majority - is shared by the House, and it is a very serious matter: the stabilization of the very partial precarious people mentioned in this decree, alas, will concern only and only those who have fixed-term contracts, among other things with a series of limitations. Now you, Mr President, who know the subject well, know that unfortunately in recent years, because of the blockades of recruitment and turnover, because of a series of requests for specialization and professionalism and because all the rules on the precarious have offered a range of types of contract, in the public administration there have been many contracts co.co., of job administration or even contracts with the VAT number, especially in the Superintendences. Well, it was not at all intended to take into account all these forms of precariousness, which are also in considerable numbers. The same question relates to the case of socially useful workers (LSU), who have often been asked by the regions and local authorities to take responsibility and for whom no solution has been found. The only positive amendment approved in the House concerns parental leave, which is a positive element for women and men in their parents. For these reasons, we strongly maintain our critical position with respect to the decree-law. I will not go back to the other matter concerning the Agency for Territorial Cohesion. You know our fierce opposition, and my colleague, Mr Uras, has already amply expressed the reasons for our opposition this morning. Let us hope that at least it will help to recover the funds that someone has told us that they have not been spent, and that they can therefore be better used, even if we doubt it, and hopefully it is not another purely centralistic operation. The third issue that we particularly care about is the Ilva affair. We have moved on despite our proposals and, alas, I am afraid that we will soon have more news from the European Union about the infringement procedure. I'm not talking about the SISTRI, but one thing I'd like to stress. In the first Commission an amendment was adopted which provided for exemption for certain producers, in particular agricultural producers, and did not involve increases in expenditure, on which the fifth Commission subsequently gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. The House of Deputies, on the other hand, has accepted a similar amendment, and I am pleased about that. However, I note that there is something that does not work in our way of working, especially when expressing opinions contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. But this is about another matter. The measure in the vote had once again declared ambitions such as the containment of expenditure on blue cars, or the stabilization of the precarious ones: instead, not only have we not received absolutely satisfactory answers, but we are far from solving the problems with which we will be confronted as early as next January, when we will have thousands of workers and precarious workers who will have no hope of being stabilised. Even the commitments that had been made regarding, for example, the lyric foundations have not been taken into account at all, neither during the first reading of the provision here in the Senate, nor in the House of Deputies. Therefore, our vote can only be against, just as it was at first reading, when we had the hope that the House of Deputies would be able to make the necessary improvements to give answers to the thousands and thousands of precarious that the rules of this country have created, problems whose resolution we do not want to take on today. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u151	The Senate greets the students, the students and the teaching staff of the Liceo Classico-scientifico "Luigi Desambrois" in Oulx, in the province of Turin. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u154	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, given the climate we are currently experiencing in this House and the need to save time, as the Lega Nord Group, we would like to announce immediately that our vote on this measure will be a vote of opposition, also in order to be consistent with the examination and investigation phase that we carried out, first here in the Senate and then in the Chamber of Deputies. Moreover, with respect to the fine intention referred to in the title of the measure, which had to provide for the rationalization of public expenditure, in fact with this decree-law, which has become a real omnibus measure, there is instead an increase in public expenditure, an increase in the costs of the central state public apparatus and therefore an increase in our public debt. Ultimately, and in short, the profile of that public expenditure that has been highlighted in recent years confirms all the anomalies of a centralist state that uses the shear with the local autonomy and instead fails to rationalise its own equipment, its own central spending. We would have expected a government that has these numbers, a government of broad understanding, more courage to really affect where there are waste and inefficiencies, for an effective structural reduction of public spending, thus immediately releasing resources that could be used to relieve the tax burden on citizens and especially businesses in order to revive the economy and consumption. Instead, at the moment, we continue to witness a Government unable to face the reforms of which the country is urgent, because it is a Government blocked in a situation of stalemate, of non-action, because of the paws within its own ranks. Families and businesses are aware of this, and so the distrust and feeling of disenchantment towards the institutions grow. We expected a massive intervention to reduce - precisely - public expenditure. In this measure have been done stabilizations and sanatories of staff of the public sector, not so much of the weakest, but of the leaders of the state apparatus, instead of a level of taxation that is now unsustainable for families and businesses. I also recall an unfortunate story that came to be examined during the examination of this measure and that - I want to stigmatize it here - emphasizes how the Government has held an obnoxious attitude. I am referring to the provision of article 8 of the decree-law, and in particular to a paragraph that had been inserted in relation to clinical-instrumental and laboratory investigations for the voluntary staff of the National Firefighters' Corps. For this sector we had succeeded in predicting that the costs were no longer borne by them, but by the administration, as is the case for other sectors and sectors of the public aid. We had laboriously agreed on a cover, obtaining the favourable opinion of the rapporteur and, above all, of the Government, who had made a precise commitment to it; the cover, then, had exceeded the scrutiny of the 5th standing Commission. Then, however, the attitude of the Government was different in the House of Deputies, so much so that paragraph 5-a has been deleted, because the Budget Committee of the other branch of Parliament has expressed an opinion against it, considering the coverage to be incompetent. We would have liked to have had time here to put this matter before the House and the Government and to stress that a commitment made in one branch of Parliament cannot be sunk into the other, among other things because of a question of cover which - I repeat - compared to other public expenditures that are being increased is really ridiculous. We therefore condemn what has happened and stress that we have tabled an agenda on this matter. I hope that the Minister of the Interior and the whole Government will commit themselves to the stability law to remedy what has happened and to provide for this sector. I repeat that this is a minimum expenditure, which benefits the volunteers of the National Firefighters' Corps (and I do not consider all the problems of that sector resulting from the lack of adequate resources); in my opinion, this deserves absolute attention. It is a body that, together with other Forces of Order, provides the security of our citizens, of all of us. I conclude (just because of the difficulty in speaking here today) by pointing out that, if you do not take a serious step forward and do not have an effective impact on reducing public expenditure, there will be no chance for our country. Our vote on the measure, therefore, will be of absolute opposition. [[Applause from Senator Stefani.]] Madam President, I would ask you to be able to attach the text of my speech to the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u155	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. However, Senator Biinella, there was no difficulty in speaking in this House. You had all ten minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u158	MARAN (SPI). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our assessment of the measure, after the changes made at first reading, remains overall positive. We confirm this assessment despite the fact that the corrections approved by the House of Deputies have, in our view, worsened the text. We have understood and shared the basic needs of the measure: the need to rationalise the organisation, current expenditure and public administrations; the need to overcome improper situations of temporary work in positions that should be covered by role-playing staff; the need to prevent the recurrence of undue behaviour by public managers in the field of management of staff. But we fought to avoid the risk that some provisions could lead to contradictory interpretations or practical effects with respect to the intentions and projects of the Government itself, in other words to avoid that the new rules could have the effect of a sanatoria of behaviours and wrong choices by public management, of a circumventing of the constitutional principle of access to the public service through competition, of a weakening of the norm in the matter of staff mobility, of a derogation from the programmatic principle of spending review. Civic Choice has made its own reasons, and I refer in this to the interventions carried out during the discussion by Senators Lanzillotta and Ichino. Moreover, it is not a mystery for anyone that the measures indicated in the Civic Choice programme on spending reviews and active labour policies go in a different direction from the measure under consideration. For this reason, the President of Civic Choice Mario Monti sent a letter to the Minister on 4 September last, in which he noted five concrete points of this incompatibility. However, we have also made significant progress, and we note the Minister and the rapporteur that they have shown their willingness and attention to our proposals and reflections. To give an example, it should be stressed that the Government has undertaken to start experimenting with the relocation contract, accepting a precise and detailed agenda. It goes without saying that the support of Civic Choice for the alliance is not in question (it never was), but neither is our conviction that within this Civic Choice alliance we are going to do something and not so much to be there, to make their ideas pass or at least to rebalance with them the ideas of others. In other words, full support for the Letta Government is the clear defence of a reformist, liberal, Europe-oriented view as a better form of support. We have been going through the most traumatic decade for the West since the 1930s and we will have to review and change many things in the way we govern, produce, work, live and behave of all of us. And of course, the spirit of sacrifice and innovative impetus will be indispensable. A rapprochement between the opposing political fields is also indispensable, as we have repeated, but this does not mean confusion, renouncing their respective identities, but means sharing the indispensable efforts to reopen a development perspective to Italy. Civic Choice, without sacrificing its identity and its reasons, wants to share the indispensable efforts so that Italy can regain its way and announces the vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u161	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the 5 Star Movement Group, taking into account many of the assessments that you yourself produced in this House during the debate that accompanied the processing of this decree, can only take note of the criticalities and negativity that the decree in question still presents, so it announces the vote against its conversion. In doing so, the Movement also wants to point out how totally unacceptable your attitude to vote on a decree that, by the mouth of Senator Ichino, therefore of a component of the majority, will hypocritically produce illusions and deceptions. Again this morning my colleague, Mr Brussio, pointed out - perhaps this is of little interest to my colleagues - that with this decree we are dealing with an audience of about 200,000 potentials entitled to stabilisation in public education. He recalled Senator Ichino, who is considered by all to be a luminary in the field of labour law, that if only 10,000-12,000 of these people will be incarnate with permanent contracts in the next few years in the public administration. Among other things, these days we have before us the law of stability, which reminds us that it is the Government's will to tighten even more the brakes of the so-called turnover. Therefore, there is a decree that knowingly delivers young people to the precarious, which - perhaps for clientele reasons - leads to being increasingly dependent on the politician on duty, who will try with an amendment to make accept that some ten or a few hundred graduate boys can hope to finally have an indefinite contract with the public administration. However, with this awareness, this majority - a majority in Bulgaria, a majority that is aware of what it does - leads to the deception of tens and tens of thousands of young people; young people who are still 50 years old will always have to depend on someone who can make them believe that the amendment that stabilizes is near. I think we should end this policy of deception - conscious deception - and mystification. I still remember that in this decree-law there is another principle - Mr Uras mentioned it - that in recent years is increasingly present in the management of public administration: when something does not work, rather than intervening to correct having understood where the problem is, we create a parallel public structure, because it is thought that in this way we can solve the problem. Of course, all this implies an increase in costs, and then we note that the problem has not actually been solved, and then we start thinking about privatisation. We think that public expenditure must be primarily efficient, because taxpayers' money must be respected, and we must end it with the habit of wasting public money: we must make public spending more efficient. If you intend to give birth to other wheelchairs such as the Territorial Cohesion Agency, Keep 'em. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We think that the money of Italians must be managed with criteria that are not those of clientelism, those of inefficiency, those of procrastination, so much will be seen. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Italians believe and hope that they want another type of public expenditure: a public expenditure that is first and foremost calibrated on quality criteria. For this reason and for a hundred others that I might remind you, the 5 Star Movement will vote against this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u164	BRUNO (PdL). Madam President, in an explanation of vote last time, before the measure passed to the House of Members, I thanked the Minister and the rapporteur that it was a timid step forward, and for this reason the People of Freedom Group would have voted in favour. The same is true today, but bearing in mind that the changes that have been made to the House make me say that it is not a step forward: it is a half step forward, very shy. Therefore, we will follow the work of Minister D'Alia, whom we invite to continue along this path, but let us not deceive ourselves that what we are voting for can be the panacea of the problems of this sector. The move, with the vote we will be voting for, is to continue along this path, but I hope that there can be more significant interventions. Having said that, I repeat that the vote of the People of Freedom Group will be in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u167	DE MONTE (PD). Madam President, I am voting in favour of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. Since there is a need for expedition, I will not give up this explanation of vote and ask the Presidency to be able to attach the text to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u170	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u171	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). There's no need to scream. Those who run can run lightly. [[Applause.]] I take life and age into account. [[Applause.]] The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u174	CASSON (PD). Madam President, I would like to speak on the matter on which I wanted to speak a moment ago in the vote on the proposed timetable, inspired or incited by Senator Schifani's intervention in the matter of the Milan Court of Appeal ruling on the prohibition applied to Silvio Berlusconi and in the matter of secret voting. I would like to intervene because incorrect statements have been made (and this is a euphemism) with particular reference to the Court of Appeal, which in no way in its judgment (which is nine pages in terms of reasons) refers to the concept of administrative sanction; it uses other expressions and terminology and makes a clear differentiation between criminal sanctions, ancillary penalties and situations concerning incandidability or decadence. So what Senator Schifani has mentioned here has nothing to do with the evaluation of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and then of the Council for the Rules of Procedure. Among other things, I would point out that the Constitutional Court has repeatedly intervened on this matter with at least three judgments, the last of which is from the years 2000-2002, and there are interventions of the Court of Cassation and also of the Council of State in 2013, which instead refer to the situation of the decadence as a legal institution which is certainly neither criminal nor administrative sanction, but which is placed to protect Parliament's cleanliness and transparency in relation to permanent sentenced for serious crimes. I move quickly, for the limited time I have, to the second subject as well. Senator Schifani said that it is handheld evidence that we vote secretly: I say instead that it is handheld evidence that in the past legislature in this Senate a few months ago we voted by clear ballot on matters certainly of greater personal importance, such as those underlying the request for protective custody for Senator Lusi, requests for search against parliamentarians, requests concerning the authorisation of the use of data from telephone interceptions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Casson, please conclude. CASSON (PD). I would remind you that, even if twenty senators asked for a secret vote, reference should be made to the articles of the Constitution cited in the Rules of Procedure, and none of these articles refers to the right of passive electorate: they refer to the right of personal freedom, freedom from searches and freedom from interception. In that case, it is correct to proceed with a secret vote: not in this case, because the electorate is dealt with by Articles 48 and 51 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u177	RICHIUTI (PD). Madam President, my statement is shared by Senator Marton of the Five Star Movement. On 14 May 2013, the judge for the preliminary investigation of Monza ordered the custody of three civil servants and four entrepreneurs in Brianza. Two of the civil servants worked at the Municipality of Desio, in the province of Monza and Brianza. One was in charge of the city's procurement and contract office and the other was a surveyor of the public works office. The charges range from the competition in corruption to the abuse of office, to the disturbed freedom of charms, to fraud in public supplies and more. These and others served several months in prison. The investigation was based on two exhibits presented by the deputy mayor and the mayor of Desio. The contracts had the object of clearing snow. Something very serious is happening in my Commune during this last period. The new contests to contract the work of the snow clearing - three - have been systematically deserted. Nobody shows up anymore. Now, if we were in Calabria, although it was a very serious fact, it would probably be less scandalous, but, ladies and gentlemen, here we are in Lombardy, in the deep North. An episode similar to this took place in another municipality in the province of Milan, and precisely in Buccinasco, some time ago. Why is it that in a period of severe economic crisis like the one we are going through, where public contracts have been reduced to light and the companies have been run down, none - I say none - wants to participate in a contract of 200,000 euros with a firm machine of 40,000 euros, which means that if it does not snow one takes home 40,000 euros? Is anyone intimidating companies on the ground? Why would an honest entrepreneur not make his offer and try to bring home a contract of 200,000 euros? Someone wants to put Desio's city administration in serious trouble and is sending intimidating messages very similar to those of the mob. I believe, Madam President, that you should go into this worrying situation with the necessary means. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u178	Thank you, Senator. We'll proceed to the possible checks.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u181	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, I am going to make a speech that I have already had to say in this House, because for the third time in this city a little boy has jumped off the balcony and killed himself as he has been subjected to an anguished and rejecting situation of homophobia. It is a silent tragedy of which we know only the tip of the iceberg, that is, we know that little bit that, in a country where homosexuality is condemned to invisibility, decides, even if only at the point of death, to face visibility. Then there is everything else, there is what the guarantor of childhood and adolescence Vincenzo Spatafora in the Human Rights Commission today told us, namely that in the last two years the attempted suicides - and therefore we should also hypothesize suicides - among young homosexuals have increased by 10%. Then there is what the statistics tell us, not in Italy (because in Italy we do not make statistics about this), but in the United States, where it is found that 30 percent of the kids who take their lives do it for reasons related to their sexual identity. And then there are us, the Italian institutions, totally absent on this. Then there is the Italian school totally deaf and mute compared to this theme. But the Italian school cannot get away with a single week of interventions per year, without any training for teachers, without any project that intervenes continuously on what is flesh and blood of our country, modifying the profound prejudices that exist and condemn to pain and suffering every generation of students, gay or lesbians who live in Italy on school benches as once lived a generation of Jewish boys, that is, understanding, at some point of their adolescence, to be wrong, not to be expected and to be neglected in this society. In the face of the contempt suffered many of these boys do not make it; and if many of these boys do not make it and throw themselves off a balcony, even our Palace and, more generally, the institutions of this State cannot remain silent. It is certainly very important the law against homophobia - which we will go to approve, I hope soon - but it would be equally important that they put in the field of tools to really change the situation of profound prejudice that exists in our country, for example through interventions in schools; that is the place where to intervene and where there is, instead, a loud silence and a dramatic absence from the institutions. Tomorrow night will take place in Rome, on "Gay Street," a mobilization to say no to what is happening in our country. I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to be present, to give a sign of the closeness of the institutions to a community that feels deeply wounded whenever one of its youngest members decides to end it because society does not contemplate it and because politics in this country cannot take charge of him or her too. [[Applause from the groupsPD, PdL and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u184	BONFRISCO (PdL). Madam President, I agree with the words of my colleague who has just finished his speech, who has managed to include, in his summary, all the fundamental issues related to the aversion, which we all feel, compared to the discriminatory phenomena raised with dramatic evidence by yet another last suicide of a young homosexual. It is in the conscience of the country now, and I thank you, Madam President, because you before others, but with so many of us, wanted to represent, not only the closeness to the pain of this family, but also the painful anguish of those who feel this discrimination on their skin. I therefore welcome your appeal, which is also mine, to the President of the Senate Justice Commission, Senator Palma, for the discussion of the bill against homophobia to be scheduled without delay and for no further time to be wasted on an issue relating to the freedoms of citizens and their inalienable, profound and indispensable rights that this law could truly guarantee. Therefore, while I am brief, I would ask all my colleagues to take the request to the Senate to intervene as quickly as possible. I would like to thank you once again, Madam President, for wanting - as a woman, as well as as our Vice President - to draw the attention of all the senators to this issue which can no longer be postponed. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u185	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u187	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I too am speaking on this subject, first of all expressing our sorrow at a young life that has been so dramaticly extinguished. I would like to remind you that in May, President Grasso, President Boldrini and President of the Republic of Naples had taken care to ensure the LGBT community (Lesbiche, Gay, Bisexuals and Transgender) and the citizens all that the law against homophobia was practically done. It is true that we Italians are used to the promises of politicians, but today the headlines tell us a reality so tragic that this habit ceases its soporific effect and anger grows in citizens. In August, as my colleague recalled earlier, a 14-year-old boy died and now this 21-year-old boy. Simone left a note in which he clearly denounced the discrimination he suffered. It is therefore no longer a question of talking only about hypotheses: they are realities that are not perceived by this society. Considering also the attitude of the Chambers to legislate on the basis of the dramas to the honour of the chronicle, we ask that also for this matter they move with as much diligence, as happened for the feminicide and as happened also for the crime of negationism. The law against homophobia must be passed immediately, but we know that it is only the first step, as my colleague also said. The absolute urgency is to start a true cultural reform in this country. What our country lacks is culture, otherwise we will never be able to make it evolve and it is the only way to make the Italian people truly free. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We would thus heal almost all our evils, including serious discrimination against transgenders, gays, lesbians, and all the weakest citizens. Where there is this discrimination, where there is work without rights, there is talk of slavery and the economy, without culture, is reduced to a market of bodies and performance; it is all connected, or at least it should be so. We don't care if we're a civilization, but we're a society that barely has any rights. Simone wrote in his farewell letter that everyone must deal with their consciences. I see that there is some light in this House. It's time to do that. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u190	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I rise to join those who have spoken on ethical issues, and on homophobia in particular (I am also rapporteur for the measure) and to inform the House that I myself today in the Commission, both in plenary and in the Bureau, having already done the report, has asked for the immediate debate on the measure. However, it was only my group that asked for this. AIROLA (M5S). I asked, too! Barani (GAL). The representatives of the other groups called for other issues such as the reform of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, corruption, because they felt that the issue was not of primary importance. I wanted to say this and to stress why President Palma also proposed that we should come to the end of the debate next week and deal with the amendments. Given that I share the fact that everyone has to deal with their consciences, while our Group is counting with conscience on this precise point they have done them (and they have done it publicly and in institutional fora), I also invite colleagues from other groups to tell their group leaders that they are consequential to what is said at the end of the session; otherwise if everyone has their own interests on phobias of laws to see Tizio, Caio or Sempronio fallen, do not tell us that the measure on homophobia is a priority. It must be said concretely in the institutional fora, as I myself did no later than today, on two occasions. AIROLA (M5S). As did the 5 Star Movement.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u193	PADUA (PD). Madam President, I wanted to make a point in order to be serene with my conscience. I, together with the other members of my Group and many senators and senators of the majority, voted in favour of the bill for the conversion of this decree-law but I must say that if we could make amendments amendment by amendment I would have said a strong no to an amendment to Article 8- bis which, among other things, specifies that the management tasks conferred by the Provinces pursuant to paragraph 6 of Article 19 of Legislative Decree no. 165 can be extended until 2014. I would have voted against because in my Province, that of Ragusa (sorry if I speak of my territory, but if I am here it is also for the territory that I represent, like each of us), for two weeks, the mothers and dads of disabled children protest occupying the Province and then - the mothers - chaining themselves because these seriously disabled children do not have access to school, the right to study provided for all the towns and citizens of our country. We do not understand why these particularly unlucky children cannot access the accompanying service that would allow them to attend schools together with their peers. All this happens because the Province of Ragusa, which has already been a police station for two years, has no more funds, no more money to make these kids be citizens like everyone else. Well, by adopting that amendment, we allow management to be extended to a province that no longer exists. I don't resent these executives, who have obviously been in positions for so many good reasons, but if a Province doesn't exist anymore you don't understand why you have to extend the assignments to these people of whom perhaps you could do without, while they can't help but go to school the girls and children with disabilities who have the right like their companions to attend schools, and they have this right because this is how it is written in our Constitution, which we all say we love. I owed this to those boys and girls, to those moms and dads, because I was ashamed, when I went to the Province more than once, to see them there to occupy the classroom and stay in there with those sick guys. There's no way this is gonna happen. Unfortunately, having had to vote in block all the law, I could not do otherwise, out of a sense of responsibility. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Catalfo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u196	ORRU' (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that I voted for the conversion of the decree in its entirety because I believe that the measure on public administration is in part improving and giving some of the possibilities to some workers. However, I cannot help but say that if it had been possible to change the article, I would have voted for the deletion of Article 4. In fact, this Senate, not less than two weeks ago, approved an amendment, of which I was first a signatory, with which some workers were given the opportunity to be stabilised. Given that we are here to represent surely all citizens (but our territory even more) the precarious in my Region of Sicily records a really catastrophic situation, emergency, that invests 24,000 precarious workers. This amendment would have enabled some workers, not so many but some more, to be stabilized. In the House all this was destroyed. I would therefore like to stress that I would absolutely have voted for the deletion of Article 4 of the decree but that, I repeat, the sense of responsibility has led me to vote in favour of the conversion of the decree itself in its entirety. At the same time, I hope that the Government, which has made a commitment, however, in the spirit of the measure, will be able to help these precarious workers - and not just these - take care of them and maintain their commitment at least in the law of stability to improve the situation. I take advantage of this speech to ask at the same time two questions, which I have submitted to the Minister of Transport on transport in Sicily: one in February, which has not yet been answered, on a railway route that connects Trapani to Palermo (it is not known whether the Government plans to intervene); another in August to ask for news of the route Trapani-Cagliari-Cagliari-Trapani, which therefore involves two islands and which seems to have been cancelled. I would like to strongly urge the written answers in the Commission to these two questions, or at any rate there is an answer. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u199	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Madam President, I apologize if I steal a few minutes, but I feel compelled to speak. The intervention of Senator Padua really needs an immediate reply, because the fact that the interventions at the end of the session take place in the absence of the Government cannot allow this space to become a ventilator where anyone can say what he wants. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There are minutes on the end of the sitting and the reasons are stated. MAURO Giovanni (GAL). I was not criticizing the Rules of Procedure which allow it, but those who abuse or perhaps do not think they are sticking to minimum rules in relation to each other, perhaps because they do not have the space to intervene when the House is summoned to the presence of the Government. When people say certain things and take on tone even emphatically by bringing up families of the disabled, of a very weak category, we must be particularly careful, because the political polemic is all there when we are in Parliament, but we must have absolute respect for absolutely important things. The senator said something extremely serious tonight. Instead of recalling the responsibility of the Sicilian regional government that abolished the Provinces during a television talk show directed by Giletti to make propaganda with the President of the Region, leaving nine Provinces without a euro to manage the services, instead of saying that the Provinces in Sicily are without even a euro because the Region no longer sends money and services therefore cannot be paid to those categories, as to all the others, comes to say that an amendment is even so criminal that it determines the discomfort of these families? President, I'm going to finish, but let me say it calmly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't use the language the senator didn't use. He did not use the word "criminogen." MAURO Giovanni (GAL). I've noticed a particular emphasis, and I'm referring to this one. When you bring into play with such delicate problems you have at least an obligation to represent the facts. The amendment that was called for does not give way to anyone and does not give any new prebenda to managers or anything else, so much so that the money for these services is missing now, while these executives are not in service: it is an absolute practical test. We, as Senate, had approved a rule that gave power, where there was need, because of these wicked decisions of commissioning, to give the Provinces amenability. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. MAURO Giovanni (GAL). I'm trying to be polite, but don't interrupt me at such a delicate time. I assure you that - anyone who knows the problem well knows - very delicate aspects have been touched on. I have never believed in the speeches at the end of the sitting, so much so that I never spoke and, if I rushed into this House, it is because things of this gravity deserve a few seconds. It cannot be said from legislators that an amendment can cause such damage to categories: I find it for my conscience, and not for my political side compared to another political side, which is very heavy, and I want to resign to this assessment. The amendment has neither the pre-announced effect of Senator Padua nor can it have it. If others have done more with the vote of the members of Senator Padua's Group, with the vote of Senator Padua in this House this evening, it is other reasoning, but pointing the finger at a person who has an amendment, I think it becomes even a matter of honour in this Parliament, because it is parliamentary attitudes that I do not think are in line with the ethics of the parliamentarians themselves. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u200	I believe that everyone has the freedom to express their opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u201	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u203	LIUZZI (PdL). Madam President, I would like not to miss the respectful greeting of this House to the well-known director Luigi Magni, who has recently disappeared. Another significant loss for our quality cinema. A personality that has strongly marked the history of our cinematography, but in particular wanted to highlight the great epoch of the Risorgimento, that is, that part of our shared history that, precisely, comes from the middle of the nineteenth century - the most famous titles of his filmography are known, in particular, in the year of the Lord and in the name of the Pope King - a moment of our history that becomes crucial for the construction of a unitary state and that, also through art, poetry, texts, but also the great narrative capacity of Magni, has been delivered to us. For these reasons, Mr President, I would also like you, on behalf of the Senate, to share this emotional thought of the whole House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u204	The Presidency supports this remembrance.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u205	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-133.ana.u206	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 5 November, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.35 p.m.
