ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Alberti CASELLATI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 14 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) on initiatives in favour of exodus workers and employment support policies, to which the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Professor Giovannini, will respond. I'm sensing that RAI's live TV is on. So let us turn to questions about initiatives in favour of exodus workers. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u6	GATTI (PD). Mr President, I thank the Minister for his presence. Minister, I quote from the President-in-Office's programme speech: Without growth, the emergency measures that we have committed ourselves to and which I repeat here - refinancing the supplementary funds by way of derogation, overcoming the precariousness also in the public administration - would be insufficient. In particular, with exodus workers the national community has broken a pact and the structural solution of this issue is a priority commitment of this Government. I think that with the time needed for urgency, the necessary insights and the cohesive participation of all the levels of government involved, solving these emergencies is an essential step. As far as the situation of the so-called exodus is concerned, I think I can say that the condition of extreme discomfort in which we have originated also from a mistaken estimate of the phenomenon, made without taking into account the context of a serious crisis in which we are facing (with a foreseeable increase in the loss of jobs) and the consequences induced by the almost total absence of gradual application of the reform. These are absolute emergencies, because the workers involved, waiting to know if they will be able to retire, are entitled to very tight times. As far as delays are concerned, I would like to know how many of the workers covered by the first 65,000 safeguarded are still retired. I understand there are delays that are no longer admissible. We are at 130.000 safeguarded, different regulatory interventions and the solution of the problem has not yet been achieved: some types of workers remain out of the safeguard, for example the dismissals of small enterprises, and, within the already foreseen categories, are continuously reported special cases, even collective ones, such as that of the IBM workers in expectation, that they will need a timely intervention. I stress the need to acquire as soon as possible the numbers of so-called exodus workers and I ask you what concrete action the Government intends to put in place to give the problem the structural solution that the President-in-Office of the Council has mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u9	SACCONI (PDL). Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you what initiatives you intend to take not only with regard to the phenomenon of so-called exodus workers, but also against proof of the limitations of the reform of the social security system produced by your predecessor, but also, and above all, with reference more generally to those older workers who have not been granted the transition that normally regulates the transition from an old to a new social security system. I would like to ask you, in particular, what definition it intends to adopt with regard to so-called exodus workers; in what terms it intends to limit the phenomenon, i.e. what workers would be able to achieve the benefit under the previous scheme; what steps it intends to take to extend the working life of persons and to correct the new social security system by introducing that transition which has not been foreseen; what flexibility do you consider appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u12	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we now know that the generic term 'exodus' refers to those who signed before 4 December 2011, in various forms, exodus agreements (individual or collective), mobility agreements, voluntary contributions, and that, following the pension reform of the previous technical government, they have remained without contributory coverage for their social security. They are people who have suffered immediately and in a dramatic way the effects of a reform that, approved by the same political forces that today support the current Government, has helped to discharge the emergency of public finances directly on Italian families, causing injustice, despair and even death. You too, Minister, are considered a technician, one of the few of this government of broad understanding. You yourself have already had the opportunity to inform us that you will proceed with checks, mappings and accounts to solve the problem of exodus. We sincerely hope that you will do a good and quick job, because as simple citizens we really do not understand how, a year and a half after the reform, the actual number of people to be protected is still unknown today. We ask you, therefore, for the exact quantification of the persons considered exodate, divided by categories; if the figure of about 500,000 units, supposed by the representatives of the committees of exodates, is to be considered reliable; what is the economic need to ensure the total coverage for these people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u15	ICHINO (SPI). Minister, it is true that, like any social reform, the one of December 2011 to some extent broke a pact, but it is also true that this break was indispensable to restore a pact between generations, because it could obviously not stand a situation in which 90% of Italian social expenditure was destined to retire in advance people who instead must be considered able to make their own job contribution to the country. The only way out of this is to replace the old pact, which could not stand, with a pact that respects an unavoidable objective, namely the increase in the employment rate for the 50-year-olds and 60-year-olds above that 33-34 percent which today constitutes an Italian figure absolutely below all acceptable standards. And then should the new pact not (this is my question, Minister) replace the method applied until 2011, i.e. to solve employment crises by anticipating retirement age with a system in which, of course, no one should be left to himself in the labour market, much less in situations where work is particularly difficult, but the support must consist not in early retirement, but in a treatment of unemployment, perhaps even more but conditional on effective availability and perhaps combined with measures to encourage and facilitate the reintegration of 50s and 60s, where possible, into the productive fabric? [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Tonini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u18	MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called Monti-Fornero pension reform has created a new social emergency, that of exodus, that of those who had already left the world of work in any capacity and close to retirement under the pre-existing legislation, that is, ready to leave employment as a result of agreements concluded prior to the reform itself and now can no longer access it because the required requirements have changed, finding themselves without salary or pension. With Minister Fornero we have seen for many months a ballet of figures: an INPS report quantified the exodates in 390,000, while the Minister for months wanted us to believe that there were only 65,000, except then to rethink. On behalf of the Group of the North Legacy, I would like to ask you, Minister, how you intend to proceed in order to arrive quickly at a concrete solution for the protection of all the workers concerned, no one excluded, hoping that it will not continue on the path of your predecessor, who in fact created exodus series A and series B. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Pepe. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u21	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, Minister, unfortunately, the problem on the agenda of today's question time we, in the last parliamentary term, had tried to avert it. We were accused of "cassandrism," but unfortunately Cassandra was telling the truth, and we said that it was not necessary to try in every way to be the first of the class in Europe, also because, in order to be the first of the class in this matter, perhaps other subjects had to be studied. We have thus created a new legal institution: the exodus. We ask you, and we ask ourselves: do you think this Government can intervene in this regard? Do you think this Government can also use EU funds for under-utilised areas (and the Mezzogiorno of Italy is most of those areas)? Does the Government think that it can use all its strength and all the rigour that has already been put in the economic management of this country to spend in Europe in favour of the Mezzogiorno, which is the part that needs this intervention most?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u24	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, I am speaking on the subject of social shock absorbers by way of derogation. The bonus fund by way of derogation is a wage integration measure in support of companies or workers not addressed to the income fund legislation. In March, there was a new, heavy increase (plus 22.4%) in authorised cash-integration hours, from 79 million in February to 97 million, and there was also an increase, both for the ordinary and the special cash-integration, compared to March 2012, but a sharp decrease in the cash-out by way of derogation, for which, however, the decrease in permits, according to INPS, does not indicate a decrease in demand but only that of usable resources. It is clear that this emergency situation is likely to exacerbate the already precarious conditions of hundreds of thousands of workers and thousands of businesses. It is therefore necessary to give immediate answers and solutions through the urgent identification of additional resources for the coverage of the integration fund by way of derogation, since those allocated are running out and will presumably last until mid-year. I would therefore ask you, Minister, if you do not feel that you urgently need to identify the resources needed for the supplementary fund by way of derogation, in order to avoid the risk for the integrated fund not to return to the companies of origin. I would also ask you how you intend to take action in order to implement measures to ensure employment, especially youth, in terms of the integration of young people, the promotion of self-employment and entrepreneurship, the promotion of principles of flexibility, mobility and reconciliation between work and private life and the promotion of a skilled workforce.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u27	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Minister, on this subject we have already discussed ourselves in this parliamentary term with the previous Government. The effects of regulatory interventions in favour of companies (through that system, in fact, the reduction of the costs of management of companies) have obviously hit the workers once again, leaving them without salary, work and, at the same time, the right and matured pension. The first question we are asking is: how many are there? Unfortunately, we do not know, precisely because of the mechanism that has been adopted by the rule we are talking about. You come from ISTAT and you know the number is quality. If you do not know the data, what are the initiatives, apart from those already established in the last decree, that the Government has decided to take and what the measures of support to the subjects who unjustly suffer this condition? [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u28	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Professor Giovannini, may answer the questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u29	Mr President, the questions that have been asked relate in particular to the issue of so-called exodus or so-called safeguards, namely those who, at the moment, through the three decree-laws that have been adopted, are actually covered by certain safeguards. There are also other issues to which I will try to answer. The first point concerns the effectiveness of the first safeguard, i.e. the decree-law relating to 65,000 subjects. Well, just last week I urged the INPS to publish for the first time detailed data on the coverage of this first decree, indicating how, compared to the 65,000 theoretical subjects that were to be safeguarded, 62,000 were safeguarded. This does not mean that the resources related to these additional 3,000 subjects will be lost, because the successive decrees clearly indicate that any economies can be used in them. I remember that the three decree-laws approved so far cover some 130,000 workers. To Senator Gatti's question about how many pensioners, i.e. those who have actually already begun to receive a pension, I answer that they are about 7,000 people: not because the INPS is late in dealing with other cases, but because they are safeguarded and will gradually retire. This allows us to understand immediately the first difficulty of this issue: to be aware of the agreements between companies and workers is extremely difficult. For example, even with reference to the second decree, companies should have communicated by 31 March the lists of persons expected to be fired (so they will lose their jobs) by 31 December, but in fact they did not. Why didn't they? Because there is uncertainty, also from the point of view of the enterprises, whether these subjects will actually be expelled from the production system by this year, or if instead we will go to the next year. I take this as an example to say that we must undoubtedly improve the information system. And this is the request I made to INPS, immediately, to realize, beyond the numbers, what I called a conceptual map (or conceptual maps). In fact, the characteristics of these subjects are extremely varied and, sometimes, change by sector, change naturally by age, change by subjective condition. I think that next week, we will be able to provide this map that I have been talking about. Here, however, I would like to make a very clear distinction: we must distinguish, in fact, between the so-called exodates in the strict sense (i.e. those who have actually lost their jobs or have stumbled into the mechanism) and those who, on the other hand, we might call esodandi (i.e. people who will find themselves in this condition in the future). We must then distinguish these two categories from the so-called blocked ones, that is, those who do not fall under the category that provided for certain characteristics at 31 December 2011 but who, because of the continuing economic crisis, because of the crisis of companies, are destined to lose their jobs and have not yet completed the pension requirements. Attention, however: this category has nothing to do with exodus in the strict sense, because they are subjects that are much closer to the categories to which Senator Ichino referred, for example, people who are, or will be, in difficulty but who do not fall into the category in the strict sense. That is why - and I have made only this example - the definition of these subjects, beyond quantification, is extremely complex. I have already seen preliminary elaborations, but I have asked for further verification, just to have, in the meantime, certainty about the audiences and then an estimate of the data. And here I want to be extremely clear, basing what I'm going to say on my previous experience as well. Since this is a future and uncertain situation, we need to talk about estimates. We cannot say, necessarily: the number is exactly this. The good news, from this point of view, is that the INPS is considering, in any case, also all those questions that, spontaneously received by workers who felt in some way that they belonged to this category, did not have the same requirements. Well, the INPS is analyzing in any case all the conditions, even of these subjects, in order to be able to understand, compared to other audiences, possibly to safeguard, as one can intervene, what entities we are talking about, and therefore the relative cost. Of course, as was pointed out by Senator Sacconi, and also by others, the point is not only that of the protection of exodus, but that of the transition to a pension system which, because of the reform, has undergone a sharp change, a change imposed - I would like to remind you - by the requirements of medium-term containment of public expenditure and, therefore, by financial stabilisation; it is a change which, however, as has been pointed out by various proposals, presented in the previous and current legislature and also in the speech of the President of the Council, can be re-placed in such a way as to reduce this discontinuity. This is one of the points that I have illustrated to the Commissions work, both of the House and of the Senate, and one of the tracks on which the Government is working, of course evaluating also the associated costs (because the costs can be extremely important). Again, we are working on this issue, but it also needs economic assessments. The issue of the flexibility of retirement - I use this general term, because the President of the Council referred to this element - with possible penalties requires a design of the system that needs to be modelled very carefully, for the implications both on people and on the financial elements of the sustainability of the system. In fact, there is no doubt that the dramatic situation of many people, apart from being exodus, exodus, or in any case in difficulty, is a fact of which the Government is fully aware and on which it intends to work. As far as the intergenerational pact is concerned, with reference to Senator Ichino's observation, I must say that, in this case too, by collecting some proposals, one of the proposals that I will feel I will make (but of course not only for this law) is the extension of technical reports to legislation to consider the so-called intergenerational accounts. It is a useful instrument for Parliament when it votes on a new law to understand its impact for generations. Often, in the past, the issue of intergenerational impact has not been taken into account, and we know the failures that this has produced. It is true that there have been - alas - situations of people who feel very similar, but in some cases they are protected and in others they are not. This is part of the speech that Senator Uras also made regarding the definition of the audiences. This is an element of injustice which, as the President-in-Office of the Council said before Parliament, we must take care of. Since I believe that my time is running out, I would like to conclude by answering Senator Ferrara's question. The use of European funds for exodus or, more generally, for dealing with the employment emergency, is of course a possibility, particularly for the Mezzogiorno, as the senator said. However, we must remember that, alongside this, there are also other needs, such as those that have been mentioned by some senators. We need to create new work, and not just protect - rightly - those who have lost their jobs: we need to protect actively, pushing those who have lost their jobs to seek and find a new job, perhaps through a different entrepreneurship. So, as usual, we know that, as they say, the blanket is short. Equally important problems are youth unemployment, unemployment of the over fifty or over fifty-five years old and unemployment in some sectors due to the profound conversion or loss of competitiveness of entire sectors. That is why the Government, meanwhile in Europe, as the President-in-Office of the Council said, is working in practice to ensure that the European Council at the end of June is all focused on this issue. Among other things, I myself will go to Brussels in the next few days to meet the European Commissioner, but I would say that all Italian diplomacy is working in this direction. Moreover, as you have seen from some articles these days, other countries, including France and Germany, are also imagining new interventions specifically for youth employment. Our commitment in this direction is absolutely strong. I then respond to Senator Panizza's question about the integration fund and social shock absorbers by way of derogation. Tomorrow's meeting of the Council of Ministers provides for this very issue on the agenda. A very careful assessment of the resources available in the very short term has been made, because we know that the problem is structural, but we also know that it cannot be tackled simply as it has been done so far, i.e. by refinanceing an instrument without further rethinking. And that is why the government's orientation, also in this case, is aimed at monitoring the behaviour of the subjects who then provide these funds, in order to understand what we are talking about: in fact, we must be clear if we are talking about workers who, due to a crisis, are still somehow linked to a productive activity or those who have now lost contact with the workplace. If we are faced with the second case, then perhaps we must imagine other instruments, other shock absorbers, and not simply continue to refinance. But this cannot happen tomorrow: I am talking, of course, about a perspective that concerns the coming months or next year. Finally, I would like to make a general point which I have already had occasion to make in recent days. The reform of both the labour market and pensions has taken place at an extraordinarily negative cyclical time, which unfortunately continues to continue. I would like to be extremely clear on this point. All these issues in a period of economic expansion would have been addressed in a very different way. For this reason the absolute priority of the Government, but I would say also of the entire Country, must be to reverse the route in terms of economic growth, enlivening funds to the families and to the enterprises in order to stimulate the development. We know that fear of the future is blocking investment plans, including family spending plans. We must be able to regain this momentum in order to mobilise the funds available in a positive way. Finally, Mr President, remembering that the issue of youth employment, in my opinion, is particularly important because, as the studies of the behavioural economy show us, being at that age outside the labour market for so long can have a long-term negative effect on the approach to life which is then reflected on the whole of existence. This is the reason why, beyond the slogans, the Government and everyone must be oriented to ensure that this generation is introduced as soon as possible into the productive system, also because it is the generation with the best education that this country has ever prepared. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, SCpI, GAL and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u30	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u33	GATTI (PD). Mr President, Minister, I am very pleased that you have announced the commitment of the Government to consider the individual condition of discomfort of persons in the different types of exodus, exodus or blocked. I think that the key element is to provide a structural solution. In the conceptual map, however, I would be attentive to the definition because among the exodus at this time are not considered, for example, the dismissals of small enterprises. I am also pleased that the Government has accepted the suggestion made by the Special Commission on the draft law for the conversion of decree-laws when expressing its opinion on the exodus measure with which it proposed not to block the receipt of applications in order to have a more complete general picture.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u36	SACCONI (PDL). Mr President, Minister, I am satisfied with your comments, starting with the definitions you have adopted to narrow down the areas of protection for workers who, in good faith, had accepted agreements to exit the labour market on the basis of the previous regulation. I am particularly pleased that she wanted to point out the need to safeguard a wider audience of workers and workers, of persons who have been placed by the sudden change in the regulatory regime of our social security system at risk of remaining in a condition for which they could not receive either pension or salary. I believe that the government must devote itself to those flexibility which must be introduced into the social security system in terms that are certainly sustainable not only financially but also socially. Numbers yes, but also people.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u39	BENCINI (M5S). Minister, in part, you have already answered the question that I would have liked to put to you on certain times in order to have the actual number of exodus: you said that we will probably have that figure next week. I remind you that behind these numbers there are people who have left the world of work and have not entered that of the pension, so, of course, they do not receive any income. The absence of income also causes an absence of planning and, consequently, as you yourself have already said, a depression of the subject involved. It is therefore really necessary and important to give a firm answer to these people so that they can be reinserted, if still young, into the working fabric or in any case they can have the opportunity to retire, in order to have an income and the possibility to make plans for their future life. When we talk about people who do not have a job, we often refer to young people and employment policies are always addressed to them: but I would like young people to be understood as all those who are 50 years old, who are therefore still young, and are outside the world of work, to give them the opportunity to re-enter it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u42	ICHINO (SPI). Mr President, Minister, I would like to express my full satisfaction both at the news of the Government's understanding of introducing new intergenerational accounts and at the part of its response to the objective difficulty of quantifying such an indefinite notion as that of exodus, and at the same time proposing a new classification and definition of the categories concerned. I intend to propose integration to the Minister. Two figures are certain: only one third of the 50-year-olds and 60-year-olds are included in the labour market and 12% of the recruitment in Italy concerns people over 50. So, I ask that the government's action be aimed at moving on from the idea that the only possible safeguard is early retirement: the real safeguard is to guarantee, encourage and facilitate the integration into the productive fabric. No one must remain alone in the labour market, but the support must be to encourage people to seek entry and facilitate it. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Russo. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u45	MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Minister, we take note of your reply. We know that in times of crisis - as always happens - workers are the ones who make it up, a category that is now more than ever in extreme difficulty, because of a bad management of politics - see the Monti-Fornero reform - and the poor ability of trade unions to protect workers. I would remind you that many national secretaries, of various trade union acronyms, sat in a few seats in Parliament, immediately forgetting their role, turning themselves from workers' representatives into slaves to the system. The past government has experienced increasing unemployment. I believe that, in order to resolve some of the problems, we should definitely cancel the Fornero reform and not make it a partial revision, as the current Government has proposed. That reform has had dramatic effects, especially for the exterminated audience of exodus, people who have always worked honestly and paid contributions, and now find themselves in limbo. Mr. Minister, how many workers committed suicide for lack of work? Family fathers, who no longer have a salary to feed their children. We cannot think of being able to tell a person who has lost his job and no longer has a salary or pension that we cannot solve his problem due to lack of cover. This government must invest more in work and productivity. Minister, the workers need not only good intentions, but facts! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u48	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Minister, we knew, because of your previous experience in the public life of this country, of your ability. His answer makes us now positively assess his knowledge of the problems and his natural predisposition for them to be addressed and resolved. However, rather than good will, we hope to be able to entrust ourselves to its precise and convinced determination in this regard. As for satisfaction, it will allow me: we have voted for confidence in this Government and are therefore satisfied by definition. We hope, in the future, that we can be satisfied by conviction. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u51	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Council of Ministers will already be dealing with the social shock absorbers by way of derogation tomorrow, as well as expressing a strong consensus on the lines that the Minister intends to give to his mandate, thinking of moving not so much in a logic of assistance but, vice versa, of development and growth, paying attention to those who do not have the job, and not only to those who have to keep it, relating on the other hand also to European experiences. Let me remind you, Minister, that other European countries - I am thinking only of the model of the dual system of the German world - have put much more effective policies into the field than our own. This commitment, therefore, to putting in place instruments that are also innovative, flexible and more flexible than those we have, I believe is the right path. In the same way, it seems to me that the attention that the Government today intends to give to the problem of work, enterprise, economy and development is right: we also believe that it is useful for the Commission to have all the necessary consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u54	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr Minister, what you have said is even more worrying. We know that we do not have the quantitative figure and we know that this is an evolving phenomenon, which can be aggravated by instruments currently in place in the service system, particularly the credit system, which will put several tens of thousands of workers in a similar situation. The result is due to the lack of preventive simulation of the effects of the standard, the lack of monitoring of certain phenomena and the lack of definition of effects management measures. This cannot happen and - although we do not have much confidence - we hope that this Government will not fall into the mistakes of the previous one. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u55	Let us now turn to questions concerning employment support policies, which will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Professor Giovannini. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u58	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr Minister, I would like to refer to a subject already touched on by some of my colleagues in the speeches before me. The Council of Ministers of tomorrow is called upon to give a first urgent response with regard to the refinancing of the derogation fund, as you also mentioned. The need is estimated at about 1.5 billion euros (as against a balance for 2012, however still uncertain, of more than 2.2 billion euros) and already a share of the financing previewed for 2013 from the law of stability, from the resources of the interbranch funds for the continuous training for the months from June to December, carries the risk of subtracting resources to necessary interventions to guarantee the professional redevelopment and the relocation of the workers now protected from the shock absorbers. In addition, the new rules for the granting of the Extraordinary Supplementary Fund for undertakings subject to competitive procedures and for the recognition of unemployment benefit for discontinuous workers, low income recipients below contributory capacity, paradoxically leave the very people who border on the limit between employment and unemployment unsupported. In this condition, what we fear most is a negative competition between passive (necessary) policies and active (even more indispensable) labour policies, instead of a virtuous synergy that combines employment subsidies, direct and temporary creation of jobs, vocational training, financial support and services for new entrepreneurship, guidance and employment services, policies that both the European Union and the OECD recommend us to avoid the trap of unemployment. I therefore ask you, Minister, in what times and with what instruments and resources the Government intends to deal with the emergency of protection of the work and income of the people affected by the productive crisis and how it intends to deal with the emergency of inclusion in the active roles of millions of women and men, especially young people, whose exclusion from work is in itself the cause of the economic and social crisis affecting the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u61	SACCONI (PDL). Mr President, Minister, when I ask you what initiatives you intend to take for employment, I would like to stress to you how important it is for these initiatives to lead to more employment. Too often we have seen policies for work that, although in theory could be considered interesting, in fact have generated modest results. We need to generate additional employment volumes because the Italian labour market has deteriorated dramatically over the last year. The unemployment rate in Italy, which compared to the European average in the past, about a year ago, was below two points, has now reached substantially the average, which stands at over 11%. In this context, I therefore ask you what initiatives you intend to take for a widespread maintenance of the so-called Fornero law (the results of which have been, in my opinion, disastrous, because in the short term it has interrupted the propensity to assume and undertake on the basis of a complicated regulation and an immanent threat of inspection of the majority of employment relationships) and what initiatives you intend to take to reduce the indirect cost of labour, particularly with regard to the first permanent contracts for young people, to the first contracts for an indefinite period. I know this is a costly initiative, but I think it is also possible to use the resources of the European Social Fund for it on the basis of more flexible employment, which I believe is acceptable in the Union today. In a particular way I ask you what initiatives you intend to take to integrate theoretical and practical learning more, especially through apprenticeship contracts, which remain too complicated also for the responsibilities of the regions and, therefore, what understanding with them wants to achieve so that this contract, so appreciated, is finally effectively and widely used.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u64	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, Minister, given that Italian companies are in a situation of serious crisis and competitive disadvantage compared to competition from foreign companies, this leads to an impoverishment of employment in our country; given that in the coming months, following the statements of European Commissioner Andor, the Youth Guarantee Fund will be set up and that this fund could lead to an increase in the rate of youth employment; considering that of the 3 million unemployed in Italy, however, only one part is made up of young people and that according to the data contained in the XIII ISFOL Report apprenticeship represents 39.6 percent of the total expenditure on active labour policies and that in the light of the data the apprenticeship contract has not had a great application; that it is talking about the generational bracket and the reform of employment centres, although they have been stripped of their functions, the 5 Star Movement believes that it is necessary to implement programs that increase the economic development of the Italian productive fabric in order to promote employment growth, reduce poverty and strengthen the economy. The apprenticeship contract deserves more incisive action and an audit of the existing active policy programmes. With regard to the Youth Guarantee Fund, projects and actions which have an effective impact on employment are financed and implemented. Policies to integrate the unemployed and the long-term unemployed need to be implemented. In order not to affect the weak and the workers with an income now considered non-dignified, given the high cost of living, the redistribution of income requires action on pensions and gold wages. The effectiveness and efficiency of the existing programmes must be checked for a better redistribution of resources. It is essential to establish citizenship income, not as a subsidy, but as an integrated welfare system, a system coordinated by employment centres that serves as a compulsory link between citizens and businesses. From the point of view of employment development it is necessary to implement programmes in support of new entrepreneurial initiatives, analysing the needs and potential of the territory. On the basis of the proposal to monitor existing data and programmes, we would like to ask you, Minister, what solutions you intend to adopt, given the above. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u67	ICHINO (SPI). Mr Minister, the rules of the so-called Fornero law, which gave effect to the rules of the previous Biagi law, in contrast to the precarious, have, however, led to an emergency. There are a few hundred of thousands of autonomous collaborations that it is right to recognize fakes, which do not correspond in their form to the substance of the relationship, but which are in crisis today. This is a crisis of difficult solution to unchanged legislation, because the transition of these hundreds of thousands of autonomous collaborations in the area of employee work generates a cost shock (with equal hourly pay an increase in cost for the company of 40-45 per cent) and a regulatory shock (the loading on these relationships of a regulatory harness makes migration very unlikely). In the face of this situation, we ask the Government whether the solution it intends to adopt is to go back to the rules of contrast with the precarious or - as we believe right and necessary - complete the draft of the so-called Fornero law, not in the process of reform of the subject, but in the process of experimentation of what could be in the near future a reform, in the sense of making available to companies and workers a model of dependent and less expensive working relationship, attacking the tax and contributory wedge, more flexible and less rigid. Today this is possible and indispensable if we are to solve the crisis, this great problem, forward and not backwards. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u70	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, we are well aware that all employment-related issues, when considered with specific attention and in a perspective related to the South of Italy, tend to be skipped. At that latitude one woman in two does not work, four out of ten young people are seeking first employment; there is a situation which, from the social point of view, risks being explosive and, from the economic point of view, presents enormous difficulties for its resolution. We also know, Minister, and this is the subject of the question, that other countries, first of all France, have used lever systems for employment with regard to tax relief and also a contribution, that is, the so-called first pour l'emploi (for once we speak in French, instead of always speaking in English), for a limit, if I am not mistaken, of 17,000 euros, which seems to be having good results. In this case, even with reference to the answer you gave to my previous question, does the Government believe that European funds can be used, as France is doing, specifically for that part of the territory which has the greatest need for employment, namely the South of Italy?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u73	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, this is a strange country: it approves of reforms, even constitutional ones, but then it does not apply them, indeed it opposes them. As is well known, the regions have competence in labour policy (passive policies and active policies), yet they are excluded from the definition of income support, integration fund and mobility by way of derogation; they have a portfolio that is defined by the government in general without even listening to the needs of the different regional situations. This also concerns active policies, because they must be addressed from a (possibly) perspective of building stable employment opportunities, which create development in the places, which enhance the productive vocations of the places, which allow the citizens of those places to continue to live where they were born and where they have affections and also to produce positive effects for the overall growth of their community. These active policies, which are also development policies, relate to training, certainly, also to the high level of training, the qualification of the new generations, but also to the maintenance in productive work of those who are already mature. The rate of youth unemployment is worrying, but it is a figure which, in absolute terms, is much lower than that of the unemployed of mature age. On these issues, Minister, we would like to know the position of the Government. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u74	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Professor Giovannini, may answer the questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u75	Mr President, I would like to start from this last point: the unemployed, according to the classification and the official international definitions used naturally by ISTAT, are about three million, but to these we must add about three million more people who are discouraged, are still inactive, but they really want to be active. It is therefore an overall situation of underemployment or unemployment which affects about six million people. This is a huge number, of course, and it is a number that - as all the analyses show us - cannot be significantly reduced without economic growth that also involves work, because the risk we face because of technological innovation, due to some structural changes, is that of the so-called jobles recovery (to use an English definition), i.e. the fact that GDP restarts but this does not generate employment. This is the issue we are facing and concerns young people, adults and people close to retirement. As many have observed, labour policies alone cannot solve this problem, but if they are wrong they can hinder the solution of the problem. This brings me to the question raised by Senator Sacconi, who has just noticed how we either manage to have large volumes of these policies or we will not be able to solve the problem on the one hand; on the other hand, we must remove a number of obstacles not so much and not only to flexibility, but also to the use of potential. This is what the Government is working on, and I have already heard from the relevant Commissions that we expect to be able to draw up by June a package of interventions, which will cover not only the adjustments to Law No 92 of 2012, but also new ideas, which are coming from the comparison, for example, with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, with European partners and with the European Commission itself in order to succeed in creating this package of interventions. However, I say it very openly and serenely, bringing all the gravity of what I am about to say: if we can fluidize the market, in the presence of such a negative domestic demand we will never be able to generate the volumes that Senator Sacconi has spoken about. The problem is therefore much more complex, as we know. We have sectors that have invested little in innovation, new products and new markets over the last ten years. One good news is that many companies that were oriented to the national market because of the crisis have moved to international markets, exceeding the limits of cost competitiveness that we know to be relevant. This means that we still have active sectors capable of this conversion, but these alone are not able to generate those volumes of work that we need. The question, then, is what Senator Ghedini put: in the face of this situation, faced with the financial limits that are still very strong, avoiding the downward competition between active and passive policies requires what some of you have said, that is an effort of the different levels of public administration - not only of the Government but, I would say, also and especially of the Regions - to concentrate the funds available on the most important actions. That is why - and I am addressing Senator Ghedini again - evaluating the effects of policies means not only monitoring, but evaluating specific ones. For this reason I have asked Italy Job and the Ministry to organize a particular evaluation of the experimental actions that have been put on the field in the past years, are in course in 2013 and in part will end in 2014. Warning: these are experimental interventions, limited. With the little money invested in those projects we cannot change, but we can avoid making the mistakes of the past. This brings me to the subject of apprenticeship and listening to the social partners. I have already informally met many social partners and will call them for a dialogue; I have been waiting for this opportunity to be discussed with the Senate in order to start this dialogue with the social partners, which is aimed at trying to understand what the interventions are, whether at a zero cost, or at an expensive cost, which is thought to be more effective. (at 11.04 a.m.) (Followed by Mr Giovanninini, Minister for Labour and Social Policy). Again, I would like to point out that the studies available at international level on the subject of 'defiscalisation and decontribution' show that there must be various conditions for those programmes to have effect and, again, in a negative cyclical phase, it is not necessarily the number one priority. Senator Catalfo also pointed out the need for this evaluation of policies, and I have already partly responded. The senator also referred to a very important point, which is youth entrepreneurship, which we have heard so much about. You have perhaps read in the press that France and Germany are also considering directing some funding particularly towards young people, towards so-called new businesses or start-ups. Again, we need to enhance these capabilities, but we know that at a time of great economic difficulty start-ups are born and are, unfortunately, in danger of dying quickly. Then it is not only the launch phase that can be supported; instead, how to strengthen these companies is an industrial policy issue that I think the Government is facing. A word about the income of citizenship or inclusion. The President-in-Office of the Council in his communications to Parliament, on which he has gained confidence, referred to the intention to study this aspect: that is what the Government plans to do, because here too we need to clarify what we are talking about. I would like to recall in this regard the experimentation - which is starting, because the relevant decree has been published in the Official Journal in recent days - of a new social card (maybe we should have found a different name) that concerns the large municipalities, oriented to large families whose members have lost their jobs or who have extremely low incomes. From this point of view, I would like to remind you, and we will discuss this in the future, of the absolute need to approve as soon as possible the new definition of the ISEE, which then covers many performances. I hope that an agreement will be reached between the Government and Parliament and, above all, within the unified conference on this subject. Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. The theme of the precariousness raised by Senator Ichino requires a very articulate answer, which I do not have the time to give now, but the indication is not to go back, but to go forward, as he said. On how to proceed - it is not very simple - there are various proposals in the field and that is what we plan to evaluate. Senator Ichino used a key word: experimentation. And I would like to recall this word, because thinking of our production system as a monolithic system is profoundly wrong. The export sector, with small, medium and large enterprises, has positive data, while other sectors are in difficulty. Well, imagine that the same recipe applies to all sectors and all types of businesses is wrong. We need to experience, even in the name of a great opportunity that presents itself to this country and that we cannot miss: the Expo of 2015, an event that presents itself once in a century. Attention, I am not referring only to the six months of the Expo: I am referring to the preparation of Italy to be able to absorb the millions of visitors who will come and to build the image of the country that the whole world will have through this event. This year and a half before us can be an opportunity to experiment with new initiatives, even in the light of this event. I shall conclude, Mr President, and I hope that I have not been long, with a reference to the Mezzogiorno, on which Senator Ferrara spoke. One of the main constraints on the use of funds is co-financing, i.e. the fact that Italian public finances have to play their part in order to activate European funds. The constraints on the general use of public expenditure resulting from the Stability and Growth Pact are those which limit the possibility, for example, of anticipating future expenditure: if we cannot solve this problem, we cannot even activate Community resources. And that is why it is so important, as the Government expects, hopes and for which purpose it is working, the closure of the excessive deficit procedure at the end of May, because that closure would make it easier to activate a number of funds. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u76	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u79	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, Minister, I am particularly pleased with certain passages in your speech, which I consider to be positive overall. First of all, I am convinced that overall attention should be paid to the productivity of the system and to the growth and potential of individuals, not considering work and the competitiveness of work as the only factor of competition. I am also convinced of the idea of approaching reforms on the basis of a reliable, secure and shared data assessment basis, I hope, among all the levels of the institutions, as you also recalled. We need to deal with the reforms together and, if I may, with the screwdriver, not using the bucket to dismantle things that we still need to assess in depth.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u82	SACCONI (PDL). Minister, I am pleased, particularly for your shared concern to pursue policies aimed at generating volumes in terms of additional employment, and in this regard I once again point out the need to follow essentially two lines: on the one hand, that of maximum simplicity, so that those who have to produce the work, potential employers, are faced with rules that are easily manageable (for this reason, I insist, we should drastically simplify the current regulation, the one introduced by Law No 92 of 2012); on the other hand, that of reducing the indirect cost of labour, with particular regard to the first permanent contracts for young people. If you follow these two simple paths, I think we can achieve results. You have rightly said that the resources we will be able to dispose of will have to concentrate and not spread them among so many projects, but around those two fundamental objectives: simplifications, which do not cost but make, and the reduction of the cost of labour, which encourages to assume. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u85	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, Minister, with regard to the monitoring of the active policy programmes in place, I believe that it is necessary to think of a reorganization and conversion of the funds allocated to them, which could be used for start-ups and accompaniment, because it is true that it is important to set up a business, but it is also important to help new entrepreneurs in order for the enterprise to have a life path. With regard to the social card for unemployed and unemployed citizens, who are so many in Italy, we are faced with an emergency that we must not take under control, which must be in the first place of the politics of the entire country. We therefore invite the Government to immediately think of a citizenship income, which is different from social card: the citizen must feel part of the social life of the country, must be able to be included in the policies of the job, must be able to be inserted in a state that accompanies the project of life and must feel part of it, because the sense of belonging helps us to overcome the obstacles. It is an emergency and must not be caught under the leg: we must immediately help the Italian families. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u88	ICHINO (SPI). Minister, we note with great satisfaction your determination to resolve forward and not backwards the issues posed by the Fornero law and we stress that, on the crucial chapters of this operation (experimentation, simplification, vocational training aimed at the actual employment opportunities and lifelong learning), Civic Choice for Italy has proposed precise solutions, which are available to the Government, the majority and the whole Parliament, in order to finally give concreteness to the choices we must make on this ground.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u91	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Minister, thank you very much because your reply gives me the opportunity to strengthen my conviction that one of the most important issues to be dealt with in the debate in this House and in the Chamber next week on the European policy guidelines of the Government will be precisely that of employment. If we are to talk in Europe not about a balanced budget but about an economic budget and if we have already been able to talk, as far as business credits are concerned, about debt cover, then, with regard to work, this will have to be one of the issues that the Government and this Parliament will have to put to Europe most strongly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u92	Mr President, Minister, in appreciating the broad and robust competence to deal with this issue, we believe, however, that we must insist, first and foremost, on the articulation of interventions. We can no longer talk about employment and unemployment, but about occupations and unemployment: people and contexts change. The other thing we have to do is put everyone together, and to do that we have to build an opportunity. I think that a national employment conference, at which regions, local authorities and social partners are protagonists, can be a useful way of finding the way together.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u93	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Giovannini for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u94	The next item is the question and question. It will be carried out first the questioning 2-00012, with abbreviated procedure, pursuant to article 156-bis of the Regulation, on the realization of the exploratory tunnel in Chiomonte (Turin), within the railway connection to High speed Turin-Lion. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure, the aforementioned questioning can be carried out for no more than ten minutes and that after the Government's statements a reply is allowed for no more than five minutes. I call Senator Scibona to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, by resolution of CIPE No 86 of 18 November 2010 (published in the Official Gazette No 79 of 6 April 2011) the final project of the exploratory tunnel in La Maddalena, in the municipality of Chiomonte, was approved, which was considered to be a preparatory work for the design of the new international Turin-Lyon link. The final draft was drawn up having as technical reference the executive project of the Venaus exploratory tunnel, as stated in the aforementioned decision of the CIPE, in the takings of action, in point 1 (c), work, in fact, abandoned. According to the questioners, there would also have been no preliminary project of the exploratory tunnel in La Maddalena. The executive project taken as reference for the definitive project of the exploratory tunnel of La Maddalena in Chiomonte had to object a very different work, for location of entrance (the one of Venaus is about 4 kilometers far from that in the locality La Maddalena), for altitude (the entrance of the tunnel of Venaus is 566 meters above the sea level, while the one of Chiomonte is at 671 meters), for orographic and water catchment basin (Venaus insists on the creek of Cenischia, while Chiomonte insists on the basin of the torrent Clarea), for length (the tunnel of Venaus is 7,068 meters long, while that of Chiomonte is 7.601 meters) and also for inclination regarding the tunnel (the tunnel of Venaus was planned in fact in the base tunnel, while the tunnel of Chiomonte started from the entrance and runs 3,600 meters before reaching the area of diagnosis of the base tunnel, thus the station of the Pentina, exactly, the utility of the plan of the exploration was to be repeated as well described by the many tunnels of the last October. The above-mentioned prescriptions (128) and recommendations (3), which were laid down together as a suspensive condition of the effectiveness of the resolution, had to be incorporated into the executive project. Above all, the drafting of the executive project had to intervene before the beginning of the works, and therefore it had to take place even before the eviction of 27 June 2011. The chronoprogram included a first part of the drafting of the executive project, and a second part for the work. But an executive project for the works was never filed before the construction site was installed, i.e. before the removal. Therefore, the eviction was unlawful - I remember that the eviction was carried out even with a audience paid to the municipality of Chiomonte - as well as, currently, the yard. The aforementioned decision of the CIPE obliged the contracting entity, identified in the company Lyon Turin Ferroviaire (LTF), to transpose, before the beginning of the intense activities, the 131 prescriptions and recommendations with obligation, for the same company LTF, to communicate such fulfillment before the beginning of the intense activities to the Ministry of Infrastructures and the transports, and with obligation, for the latter, to give it to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - Department for the programming and the coordination of the economic policy, as read in point 4.2 of the same decision: The contracting entity shall, before the beginning of the work provided for in the aforementioned final draft, provide assurances to the said Ministry that the requirements set out in Annex 1 have been transposed into the executive draft; the said Ministry shall, in turn, communicate to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - COPEC. It is clear, therefore, that under these conditions the decision of the CIPE did not allow any opening of the yard, being not existing the executive plan, whose drafting by LTF (it is written in the resolution that it is LTF to have to do), with transposition of the prescriptions, had to be communicated to the competent bodies. Well, the decision of the CIPE certainly has immediate effect for the declaration of public utility of the work; but what work, if there is no executive project with the 131 prescriptions and recommendations required, that completely upset the project submitted to CIPE? Why is there no executive project? Do you want to save money, or has no European tender been made, as foreseen by the 2007 EU funding request? In the absence of a unitary executive project, in the absence of a tender and its public specifications, and with the initial absence of a single project code, how can the costs of LTF be controlled? Does it seem to you that 150,000 euros in a month for the simple water of the toilets of a dozen workers represent a good trend in the use of public funds? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Undersecretary, do you find that the contracting entity Lyon-Turin Ferroviaire has complied with what was decided by CIPE in point 1.3 and point 4.2 above? Is it also clear that the contracting entity, before the start of its work in Chiomonte, drew up the project for the exploratory project "La Maddalena" and transposed into it the 131 requirements and recommendations, to which the approval of this project remains entirely subject, in accordance with the provisions of point 1.3 and 4.2 of CIPE? In our opinion, no. In view of this, what will be the Government's intention regarding the possible lack of controls on the provisions imposed by CIPE by the officials in charge of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the so-called technical mission structure and in relation to the possible suspension of the work undertaken by the alderman at the municipality of Chiomonte, to what appears to the inquirers in violation of what is imposed by CIPE, which made the effectiveness of its deliberations subordinate to the drafting of an executive unitary project? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u96	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u97	Mr President, the new Turin-Lion railway link is the key project of the Mediterranean Corridor, which is one of the ten priority Corridors of the Core Network Europe. On 29 January 2001, the Governments of the Italian Republic and the French Republic signed an agreement to establish a new Turin-Lyon railway line, ratified by the Italian Parliament by Law No 228 of 27 September 2002. The agreement provided for the establishment of a promotional bi-national body, made up equally of the two infrastructure managers of the Italian and French railway networks, subsequently identified in the French company LTF sas, which was 50% owned by the Italian Railway Network and 50% owned by Réseau Ferré de France. In accordance with Article 6 of the Italian-French Agreement, the two network operators have therefore entrusted LTF with the conduct of the studies necessary for the definition of the project of the Italian-French joint part of the Turin-Lyon railway, as well as the carrying out of the reconnaissances and preliminary works (for the national sections the competence is at the head of the respective national railway companies RFF and RFI). These works involve, among other things, the construction of four geognostic tunnels (or descendants) near the path of the base tunnel that develops for 57 kilometers, of which 45 in France and 12 in Italy. This French territorial prevalence means that, of the four descendants, three are in French territory and only one is in Italian territory. These preliminary works allow you to learn more about the geological structure of the soil, test the excavation techniques and thus define the methods of construction, estimating the times and costs of construction of the base tunnel with more precision. Since 2003, and following in the following years, LTF has started and completed the excavations of the three French descendants. The Italian-French agreement provided for the location in Italy of the only exploratory tunnel (7,000 meters long and 6.4 meters wide) in the municipality of Venaus; on 7 August 2003 the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, pursuant to article 3, paragraph 9, of Legislative Decree 20 August 2002, n. 190, approved the project, in agreement with the Piedmont region. The design and implementation of the exploratory tunnel were entrusted, following a negotiated procedure invitation to tender, to a temporary group of companies, headed by the cooperative bricklayers and cement workers of Ravenna with which, on 31 January 2005, the relevant contract was signed. In December 2005, the government identified the creation of the Osservatorio Valle di Susa as a means of ensuring greater participation of local communities, in order to meet the needs of local communities. The first phase of the work of the Observatory ended in June 2008 with the agreement of Pracatinat, in which, among other things, a new hypothesis of route was identified in Italy of the railway line and, consequently, of the exploratory tunnel, whose entrance was located in La Maddalena, in the municipality of Chiomonte, instead of in the municipality of Venaus. On 9 September 2009, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport informed LTF that the procedure for the approval of the tunnel would take place pursuant to Articles 165 et seq. of Legislative Decree No. 163, 12 April 2006, with the drafting of a final project submitted for environmental impact assessment and approved after the conclusion of a service conference. The final draft has been drawn up by LTF in accordance with the rules of law and this, in particular, not only in relation to the norms of the administrative process, but also in compliance with the data and technical elements to which, as we know, the same legislative decree no. 163 reserves a special annex. From the procedural point of view, the implementing entity submitted to CIPE, pursuant to Articles 165, paragraph 5, and 166 of the same legislative decree, its final draft; it was also followed the procedure provided for in Article 166, in which all interested parties were able to express their comments and opinions. At the outcome of the conference of investigative services, held in accordance with the provisions of Article 168 of the same legislative decree, the Ministry of Infrastructures and Transports has formulated to CIPE the final proposal for approval of the definitive plan with modifications and integrations. At its meeting of 18 November 2010, by Resolution No 86, published in the Official Journal No 79 of 6 April 2011, the final draft was approved with 128 prescriptions and 3 recommendations. This resolution provided for the obligation by LTF to comply with the requirements and recommendations at the design and implementation stage of the work, as well as the supervision by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea of compliance with them during the planning phase. The law in force, in fact, previews that, after the approval of the definitive plan, the contracting entity verify that in the development of the same plan is assured the respect of the prescriptions issued from the CIPE in the approval of the definitive and preliminary plan (article 169, paragraph 1, of the decree). This provision is consistent with that of Annex XXI (Article 20), where it is expected that the general report of the Executive Project should contain a statement of compliance with the final draft and any requirements. Moreover, the same Article 169, paragraph 1, provides that, even in the execution phase, the checks and tasks referred to in Article 185 are to be stopped, the latter article governing the tasks of the environmental impact assessment commission. In the case of the exploratory tunnel in La Maddalena, the requirements attached to Resolution No. 86 of 2010 (in total 131, divided into requirements during the project phase and during the implementation phase) are currently the subject of control (so-called implementation verification) by the EIA Commission, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Infrastructure, to which the related drafts have been sent at executive level, starting from 9 September 2011. The activities related to the first phase of the work (cleaning and start of the excavation) have been started only after having complied with the relative requirements, drawing up the relative executive plan and sending it to the competent administrations for the verifications due by law. Moreover, the technical mission structure at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport carried out the checks on the basis of the aforementioned CIPE resolution, in constancy of the ongoing control by the EIA commission at the Ministry of the Environment. In fact, point 4.2 of the final provisions of the aforementioned decision CIPE states that the contracting entity must provide, before the beginning of the work provided for in the aforementioned final draft, to provide insurance to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport on the transposition, in the executive draft, of the prescriptions; the aforementioned Ministry will, in turn, communicate to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - Department for the programming and coordination of economic policy). It remains firm, according to point 4.2 of the aforementioned resolution, that the EIA commission will carry out the checks pursuant to Article 185 of Legislative Decree no. 163 of 2006. Therefore, only after the verification of the EIA commission has been carried out will the contracting entity be able to definitively follow up on the requirements of point 4.2 of the aforementioned resolution and then provide the assurances to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. In particular, the CIPE resolution provides for requirements to be complied with during the execution phase (prescriptions from l to 93) and requirements to be fulfilled during the realization of the works (prescriptions from 94 to 128, in addition to the three aforementioned recommendations); the contracting entity, therefore, must provide, before the beginning of the intense activities, to provide insurance to the Ministry of Infrastructures and the transports on the results of the verifications carried out by the EIA commission, pursuant to Article 185 of the aforementioned decree, about the transposition of the prescriptions from l to 93. With reference to what is expressly required in the questioning under consideration, I would point out that, in the state, LTF forwarded to the Ministry of the Environment the design tables relating to 68 prescriptions, which allowed, as mentioned above, the start of the works. As it turns out, the EIA commission is carrying out the documentation assessment activities submitted by LTFs and other entities involved (ISPRA and ARPA-Piemonte), in order to provide an opinion on the proposed executive project, as well as on compliance with the requirements. In a nutshell, the LTF has carried out the preparation of the executive project and the Ministry of the Environment is proceeding to the implementation of the first phase of the prescriptions previewed from the aforementioned decision CIPE; the same company, moreover, is continuing with the preparation of the ulterior elaborations, for the definitive closure of the verification of implementation currently under way. I assure you here that it is firm commitment of the Government to follow with the utmost attention the regular fulfillment of the prescriptions connected to the realization of the work in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u100	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, I think that the answer given is completely inadequate for a number of reasons. First, the Venaus tunnel was made on design variation but the Chiomonte tunnel is located in another valley: it is another thing, it cannot be realized through a design variation. You also mentioned the Pracatinat agreement, Secretary of State. It appears to me that the agreements must be signed by at least two people: only one signature has been signed on that document, so it cannot be an agreement. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With regard to the environmental impact assessment, as I understand it, it has been, as it were, torn apart and not on the whole of the work; according to a European prescription, it is absolutely necessary that the EIA be done on the whole of the work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It does not appear to me that the prescriptions have been made, also because - to name just one - all the water sources in the area must be subjected to analysis for a whole year; it has not yet been a year, so it is not possible that they have been done. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Finally, in your opinion there is no executive project and, as far as I know, the executive project must absolutely exist and be delivered before planting a single nail anywhere. [[Applause from the M5S Groups]] and Mixed-SEL). I therefore call on you, Secretary, to respond to these exceptions. [[Applause from the M5S Groups]] and Mixed-SEL).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u101	Following is the question 3-00040 on the cancellation of the competition for school managers held in Tuscany in 2012. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make the following points. 641, 643 and 645 of 19 April 2013 the TAR Toscana cancelled the selective written and oral evidence of the competition procedure for the recruitment of school managers for primary, secondary and educational schools of the same Region. The relevant appeal was brought by certain competitors who were not fit for the outcome of the written tests. In the reasons for the judgments cited above, it is clear that the judge considered that the procedures for correcting the drafts did not comply with the law - it is stated, in particular, that the examining committee would not have carried out a collegiate analysis of the individual tasks - and the composition of the commission itself, following the replacement of a new chairman to the original resigning committee. On the point was concerned the regional school office for Tuscany, which stated that it did not consider the complaints brought by the TAR Tuscany to be justified. In particular, in the opinion of the regional school office for Tuscany, the new chairman of the commission successor to the original one would be fully legitimated to carry out the assignment, being in possession of all the requirements provided for by the law. It would then not be acceptable to support the censure on the lack of collegial evaluation of the drafts, as this fact does not emerge unequivocally from the minutes, from which it would seem to be deduced on the contrary how the tasks were individually analysed but jointly assessed by the committee. For these reasons, the Ministry is determined to propose timely appeal against the decisions of the TAR Tuscany and to ask for its precautionary suspension, as they are likely to cause significant inconveniences on the regular conclusion of the current school year and on the start of the following year. In this regard, it should be noted that 106 new school managers are involved in the annulment of the competition, whose merits in overcoming the competition have not been called into question by judicial decisions, and therefore by the same number of schools. In the conviction that the competition procedure has been carried out in full compliance with the legislation in force and trusting, therefore, in the suspension of the effects of the judgments under consideration by the judge of second instance, the Ministry is of the opinion that these new school managers must continue to carry out the tasks assigned to them, thus ensuring the regular conclusion of the school year. It is, however, concluded that at the competent offices of the Ministry of Education, all further measures to be taken both against the applicants and against the winners of the competition are being evaluated in order to avoid the negative impact of a possible outcome of the judgment unfavourable to the administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u105	MATTESINI (PD). Mr. Undersecretary, thank you for the perfect reconstruction of the matter, but above all, I am satisfied with the commitment of the Government and the assessments you have presented here. I remember that, as you rightly said, there are 106 people involved, but the Tuscan schools concerned are 170, i.e. one in three. In fact, among the current regencies and pensions in progress, there will be many schools that in the next school year, without this choice, would be in a situation of serious difficulty. I believe, however, that while respecting the sentence of the TAR, it is right to acknowledge, as you said, the usefulness and the need to appeal with a request for suspension. In fact, it is certainly necessary to find a solution that safeguards the expectations of the right gained by those who, won the competition, have been appointed and have carried out their work for a year - and is still doing - for one year. It is also necessary, as you have said, to recognize very seriously that the work done in recent years in the certainty of its functions is fully recognised, in order to avoid further problems in the school. I therefore agree and really appreciate the choice made by the Ministry. A balance must really be found in order to prevent the remedy to such a complicated situation from leading to serious prejudice to candidates who have carried out competitive tests with merit, but above all, in order to be able to give certainty of administrative operation to schools. Among other things, I would like to stress that in the last parliamentary term, a similar situation - I am referring to the competition for school managers in the region of Sicily - has found a suitable solution to protect together the rights acquired and the functioning of schools.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u106	The questioning and questioning on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u107	I recall that, according to the Conference of the Leaders, the afternoon session on Tuesday 21 May, beginning at 3.30 p.m., will open with the commemoration of Francesco Renda, former senator of the 5th legislature. I would also remind you that the same sitting will also be followed up by the debate on motions for resolutions on genetically modified crops.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u108	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-23.ana.u109	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 21 May, the first at 10 a.m. and the second at 3.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11.44 p.m.
