ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 13 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. I would ask colleagues to come to their seats and proceed with the verification. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) Colleagues, as the first vote, we give the senators time to go and get the cards. I pray to those who still have to reach their station to do so immediately. The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law Nos. 720, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the own-initiative drafts of MPs Mogherini and others, Spadoni and others, Migliore and others, Bergamini and others, Meloni Giorgia, 243, 641 and 729, and motions 1-00056 and 1-00064, by abbreviated procedure pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, for the adoption of measures against violence against women.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u9	Mr President, in yesterday's debate, it emerged above all that two considerations were shared: that in the human way the individual counts more and more of the genre and that violence against women is always a violation of human rights. However, the debate on the Istanbul Convention also puts us in a position to assess how the ancient forms of violence - let us call them, in a terrible, traditional way - are being added and added to the new ones. And it is on the new that it is worth adding our reflection and our considerations. In fact, to the ancient ones, not yet surpassed, they are added forms of violation daughters of religious antithetical customs to the more elementary conquests of freedom, social traditions that keep the woman in various marginalized forms, tribal uses that are imported by some ethnic migrants: from the infibulation ( sad and dramatic cases to repeat that continue also in our Italy) to the matrimonial duties imposed by the family. As I said, it is correct that the Istanbul Convention, which we are discussing and which we are going to ratify, takes into account, among the forms of violence, also what again appears within the Union and the instruments necessary to deal with these new forms of violation, by signing a principle that in my opinion is a value in itself: the enjoyment of freedoms and constitutional rights in any country of the Union does not provide for violations in the name of tradition, customs or even in the name of any claim of a religious nature. Protecting cultural and religious diversity means first of all not allowing anyone to trample on the rights of the individual and therefore of the person. I will conclude by adding very brief considerations on which it is correct for the House to take decisions in the near future, of course if it agrees on these points. The first consideration is that, alongside the Convention, we should work to ensure that the Italian Government and its President-in-Office defend in the heart of the European Union, and therefore in Brussels, a sort of table of common rights, which should be considered a fundamental requirement for all those countries which wish to join the Union. There are already values that must be shared when a country asks for access, but these risks being too generic and vague at this time. This is the table that was mentioned a few years ago (10 years ago) Ralph Dahrendorf, when he asked the European Union to make a concrete effort to ensure that each country enjoyed the possibility of having shared basic rights in a table of common rights. Europe cannot yet be satisfied from this point of view. The second consideration has already been mentioned yesterday by some Senator colleagues, who have spoken before me: to increase the funds available to regional health services to support and help even in advance - and of course later, therefore, not only for the educational part, but also for the support part - those who suffer domestic violence. There are already some regional experiences that go in this direction, but they are of interest to some typical regions: they have worked and, if they have worked, they can become a shared criterion by the other regions that do not yet have such regulations. Thirdly, I believe that we need - and I am talking about a central budget - a national institution that looks at human rights. Italy does not yet have a structure of this nature, but it could have it. This structure could be unifying to the various peripheral experiences and would make sense if it were to sit in its proper seat: the Presidency of the Council. The last issue that is particularly important to me - and I have concluded my speech, Mr President - concerns the adoption of the individual parts of the Nice Charter, adopted in 2000 and adopted by the Italian State a few years later. The adoption of Community documents often does not follow the adoption of the individual parts as a rule: I call on the House to reconsider the Nice Charter of 13 years ago, the parts which have been chosen and fixed in a rule and those which are still unsolved. The examination of the Istanbul Convention would allow us to close a circle of being bearers in Europe of a measure of civilization and freedom that would bind ratification and adoption of the Convention also to a number of specific measures. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and SCPI and Senators Bonfrisco and Fattorini).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u10	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence has been unanimously approved by the House of Members, and I am also sure that this branch of Parliament will be doing so. We are pleased that the whole political arc has joined in the desire to give a clear and strong signal on this issue, but we would not like that with such ratification someone thought that they had already exhausted the commitment on the subject where, even in our country, instead there is still so much to do. In fact, in some respects, the commitment has just begun. I would remind you that the objectives of the Convention, to quote the first articles, are: to pursue and eliminate violence against women and domestic violence; to help eliminate all forms of discrimination against women; to promote real equality between the sexes by strengthening the autonomy and self-determination of women. These are important objectives that need to be addressed not only with a view to predicting the hypothesis of crime, but also on issues that are not easy and immediate, because they affect complex fields that have to do not only with the law, but also and above all with culture, psychology and with complex and complex relational forms. In recent years our country has already equipped itself with important tools that go in the direction of protecting against gender violence, but others will be necessary in order to intervene on social and cultural issues. It will not be easy, we are aware of it, and unfortunately the chronicles confirm it daily. We are therefore trying to focus our attention and direct our efforts beyond today's ratification of the Convention, which, no matter how noble, remains a programmatic act if we do not act on effective plans. Despite the recognition of fundamental civil, social and cultural rights for women, physical, psychological and sexual violence is still one of the most serious and widespread forms of human rights violations. There are numerous episodes of violence committed against harassed women, threatened, raped, raped, killed, victims of all kinds of violence because of their refusal to submit - I stress - to unreasonable fanatic-religious dictates, to forced marriages, to genital mutilation, to human trafficking. This is also the case in our country. I remember that violence against women is not a typical phenomenon of degraded environments and not even typical of today, although the media have given particular prominence to it in recent times. It tends to attribute powers and guilt to legislators, but it is good to mention also judgments such as that of 1 February 2012, by which the Supreme Court decided that it is not mandatory to custody in prison for those who, even in group, raped or beaten a woman, since the Constitutional Court, on 21 July 2010, had defined the provision approved by Parliament by law No 38 of 2009, convention of the so-called security decree, because considered limiting the field of action of the judiciary. These judgments also affect public opinion, which, on the other hand, considers such crimes absolutely hateful. In the context of the evaluation of the contexts in which many violence and discrimination arise, it cannot be kept silent, apart from rhetorical and good-natured considerations, but rather it must be honestly recognized that the exponential increase of the phenomenon of immigration from countries with cultural roots other than our traditional ones has put to the test the integration policies and, at the same time, has evidenced the improcrastinability of legal and cultural interventions aimed at ensuring the respect of the legality and the principles of our civil life on the part of all the communities, even with different cultural roots, present on the national territory. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The inclusion of foreign communities in our country, whatever ethnicity, religion and culture they belong to, inevitably passes through the strength of women to open up to confrontation. I remember that the woman, who is mother and wife, has the ability to transmit within her family the sensibilities acquired. In view of this fundamental role of women in society, we understand why many women become victims of repression within their own family and community. For these reasons too, among the provisions of the Convention that we are going to ratify, there is an invitation to States to monitor - I stress - that culture, customs, religion, tradition or so-called honor should not be used in any way to justify any act of violence. There is one point in the Convention that we would like, however, not to be used to act at a sub-legislative level, perhaps using the pre-conditions of the Convention to create disparities on the contrary. The Convention requires gender-based guidelines and asylum procedures which are sensitive to gender issues, including the granting of refugee status and the application for international protection. We do not want this to create, on the contrary, a disparity, with facilitating practices in which the situation of women could be further exploited to gain benefits, without benefit to gender equality, nor to promote the status of women. In this connection, I would remind you that our Group has presented a specific agenda to the House of Deputies, which has been accepted by the Government. The defence of women, a fundamental element of our society, also passes from the valorization of her role and her figure, not only as a victim, but in the recognition of her value within our community. Today, more than in the past, women are called to face new challenges and their social presence is indispensable to help explode the contradictions of an organized society almost exclusively on productivity criteria. One of the key principles that has always inspired the political and programmatic line of the Northern League is, in fact, the protection, valorization and development of households as an indispensable foundation to ensure the safeguarding of the values necessary for the education of children. We must not deny the strength generated by our identity and the values of equality that arise from all our historical tradition, with the awareness that dignity and rights are elements on which it is not possible to come to terms. It would be even more shameful to do so under the boonist mask of respect for what are hypocritically defined traditions, without having the courage to admit that it is instead barbaric, violent and uncivilized practices. In conclusion, we are talking about violence against women in particular, but let us remember that violence, in fact, has no gender: it must be banned and fought in every way by our society. I therefore recall the provisions of the Convention which must remain a real objective for us and which must be protected: the right of all people to food free from violence. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PdL and PD Groups and Senator Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u12	She is registered to speak Senator Giannini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, kind Deputy Minister, I too believe that today's sitting, like yesterday's sitting, is a solemn act of the Senate of the Republic with high symbolic value. This leads me - and you do not want me to do so - to start with a very brief historical reference that shows us how Western culture has opened up with a literary chapter of masterful tragedy. I am referring to "The Supplices" by Eschilo, who tell us of a first act of institutional violence against a group of women, the Danaids, who flee from Egypt, to the Argolide, Greece, to escape the marriage imposed on them with their fifty cousins. We are in 463 B.C. in the southeastern Mediterranean. I remember that the Danaids then undergo marriage and kill, in turn becoming murderers of husbands; But this is another chapter. It is a first, very modern representation, that of Eschilo, of the complexity of gender relations and of the eternal conflict between universal values and contingent political conventions. I see Deputy Minister Dassu and I remember a beautiful day at Farnesina, when we talked about women who dare, who must dare, as Hillary Clinton told us in a video message. These are ancient women who dared with an act of modernity. But Western history has decidedly taken another road and at a distance of more than two millennia we are here today to see that violence against women, of which feminicide is the extreme act, is now a universal phenomenon, has a widespread and generalized character and affects both advanced and developing countries, even in distinct and culturally codified forms, from domestic and individual violence to socially institutionalized forms. The international community has shown increasing sensitivity to this issue. Those who speak towards the end of these broad debates have the obligation of synthesis and are exempted from mentioning all the legislative references. I simply recall, before commenting on the Istanbul Convention, the stringent UN declaration on the elimination of violence against women, which is perhaps the first institutional and international document in which violence against women is recognised as a violation of fundamental rights and freedoms. In order to arrive at the text of the Istanbul Convention, which the Council of Europe has produced as the first legally binding international instrument, ratification by at least ten countries will give life and concreteness to the legitimate and necessary ambition to create a uniform and comprehensive legal framework that can allow the protection, prevention and elimination of this dramatic phenomenon. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that violence and freedom cannot be together anywhere in the world: even more so in the countries of the European Union, even more so in a country like Italy, where it is true that the crime of honour was formally repealed on August 5, 1981 (in order to have a cultural reference of the period, I recall that it was the year before the triumphant victory of the football world championships in Barcelona), but where it was equally evident the legislative effort to stem a widespread social phenomenon, with the introduction, among other things, of the crime of stalking. And yet the numbers keep shaking. They have been mentioned more or less all of them, and I am therefore referring only to the report by the special rapporteur on violence against women of the United Nations, who has made a very thorough and tough report on Italy. In 2012 124 women were killed in Italy due to gender violence: one every three days. Many foreigners, victims of domestic violence (31 percent) that is often the result of an unprecedented generational conflict between conservative fathers and daughters reneging on tradition. However, 73 percent of the murderers are Italian. I would call this situation a case of strabism between the political initiative - national and international - and society, which seems not to respond to the demands of progress and which requires us, therefore, to act and understand better, beginning with the causes of the phenomenon and its roots in the national context. We have seen that there has been no improvement in the living conditions of women, girls and girls, which are obviously the least protected category in the face of violence of all kinds. This means that this is not just a legislative problem, but above all - many have said - a cultural problem. The text of the Convention spells out this aspect and declines the resulting government commitments, on which I would like to address them quickly. The preamble recognizes the structural nature of violence against women, as it is based on gender and gives a definition of gender that seems very interesting to me. Article 3 of the Convention clarifies that gender is a linguistic and social construct that demands and ennobles diversity in respect of the dignity of the person, man and woman, both in the family and social sphere. Senator Fattorini's motion - in the premisses that precede the commitments, to which we adhere - highlights these aspects very well. This is a kind of sensitivity that is lacking in our country and which must be introduced in the common sense, and the Convention between the specific guidelines - in particular Articles 12, 13, 14 and 15 of Chapter III - obliges us to promote this socio-cultural change, fundamental to progress and necessary to overcome discrimination, creating conditions of real equality. We know very well where and with which tools it is possible to do all this. The places are the school and the university of course, elective locations of production of a critical and independent thought. However, the places - let me say - are also the televisions, which in other periods of our country's history have also had the merit of linking on the linguistic and cultural level a country "too long" as the Arabs said, and very fragmented, while today they risk curbing the cultural development of Italian society, reproducing stereotypes of archaic and aggressive genre, in a serial way. The places are also the new worlds of advanced technology, to which they have constant access mainly young men and young women, many of them minor. In them, above all, the difficult balance between the freedom of individual expression and the protection of the individual himself from the many forms of social and verbal violence must be sought. Finally, let me make a final reference to the family, implicitly mentioned in the title of the Istanbul Convention as a subtle and unexpected form of violence against women - the domestic one - and that we would like and should return to our primary educational and affective function and, in some respects, irreplaceable as a place of production of positive models. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, kind Vice-Minister, our responsibility, therefore, today goes far beyond the symbolic value of the act of ratification that we are about to vote on: it is a first step in replacing gender rhetoric with a solid culture of rights, values of equality and respect for the dignity of the human person. As a Civic Choice for Italy we imagine translating this responsibility not only by fully subscribing to the motions presented today - in particular, we have signed the Fattorini motion, even if all the motions nevertheless represent laudably the same instance - but, above all, by exercising those educational and preventive tasks, as well as of direction, control and monitoring of the media, which the ratification and execution of Chapter III of the Convention, and more generally of the entire text of the Convention, provides and involves. In our idea of Europe - I believe we can agree on this general principle - violence and freedom cannot coexist in any way, neither for men nor for women. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Billardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u15	Mr President, the date of 11 May is a turning point, because it establishes, with the Istanbul Convention, the commitment to preventing violence against women and domestic violence and to combating the same phenomenon, with the aim and effect of making the dignity of women inviolable. As men and above all - let me say this - of the southern world we cannot but support these concepts and postulates which represent the fifth essence of our traditionalist conception of the family and our ideal vision of the woman, whether mother, wife, sister or partner of work or life. Women - it should not be forgotten - have always represented the unity and indissoluble strength of families. In our country only with the approval of law no. 66 of 1996 carnal violence, acts of violent libido and obscene acts were recognized as crimes against the person. Well, unfortunately, 17 years have passed and in Italy most of the violence against women remains submerged. There is, in fact, a gap between complaints about sexual violence and women who would have been raped. This is because women tend to report crimes more easily when suffered by strangers than by known persons. The woman, in fact, tends to want to keep the family together, no matter what it costs. The phenomenon crosses all social classes, regardless of age, race or ethnicity, and is - you have repeated it all - one of the major causes of death or permanent disability in women up to the age of 50. Just remember that from 2005 to 2012 there were about 900 victims. It has become an almost everyday phenomenon, so much so that it seems to pass as a physiological phenomenon. But this is not and cannot be. The story in Corigliano Calabro, where little Fabiana Luzzi, a 16-year-old girl, was stabbed and burned by her boyfriend, is still imprinted in our memory. Violence against women is a social scourge that unfortunately has always found fertile ground in our country, a scourge that cannot be solved by repression alone: there would be neither resources nor personal enough. It is essential, therefore, an education to respect women, which must be transmitted in the family, at school and through the media. It is essential to modify the stereotypes and representations of women conveyed by the media and advertising by introducing codes of self-regulation and lines of behaviour to ensure, first of all, respect for the female figure. The criminal proceedings against the perpetrators must have special attention on the part of the judiciary, both in order to prevent their length from helping to keep open for too long painful wounds and, above all, to avoid stalking, which is also now criminally sanctioned and which can be translated into something far more serious. That is why we ask that law enforcement be properly supported, which often represents the first bulwark of salvation for the victims. These are highly qualified operators who must reconcile investigative techniques and procedural rules with psychological human implications. We call for the issue of violence against women to be on the agenda of all institutional levels, especially the peripheral, municipal and neighborhood levels, because that is where violence is consumed and that is where women must be supported in order to denounce abuse. We need to strengthen the anti-violence network by encouraging victims to report it and we need experienced staff who can give immediate support and help to the woman who has suffered abuse. Violence against women is still one of the most serious and widespread forms of human rights violations in the Western world. However, the most recent recognition of civil, social and cultural rights in favour of women has not stopped, or at least limited, the phenomenon of physical, psychological and sexual violence against women. On ethical issues and on the family Europe identifies principles of reference, leaving to individual States the burden to decline these issues in ratification and ordinary legislation, respecting history, culture and their constitutional principles. This new treaty is the first legally binding international instrument that creates a comprehensive legislative framework to protect women against any form of violence. In conclusion, we hope that ratification of the Istanbul Convention can take place in a unified and shared form, also to give a strong signal to our country of a firm and determined will to combat violence against women. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Campanella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u17	CAMPANELLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence is the first legally binding international instrument aimed at creating a comprehensive legal framework to protect women against any form of violence. From its front pages, in the preamble, the spirit of the Convention emerges, where it is recognized that violence against women is a manifestation of the historically unequal force relations between the sexes, which have led to domination over women and discrimination against them by men and prevented their full emancipation; and again, where it is stated that the structural nature of violence against women is gender-based and that such violence is one of the crucial social mechanisms by which women are forced into a subordinate position with respect to men. An approach that starts from that social and cultural dimension that for years, even in contemporary times, has been considered almost inevitable, historically determined, is now openly indicated as responsible for a distorted reality. There is no cultural relativism or indulgence when it comes to abuse. Nameing things is the first step in identifying and denouncing them. With this in mind, the Istanbul Convention does so from the outset, from Article 3, reviewing the main formulas used to generally indicate violations, abuse, abuse of the so-called weak sex, starting with the expression 'violence against women', by which it is intended to designate a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination against women, including all acts of violence based on gender which cause or are liable to cause harm or suffering of a physical, sexual, psychological or economic nature, including threats to perform such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, both in public life and in private life. The real novelty is to represent this type of violence as a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination. A number of measures are also planned to support the economic support of victims of violence, from the establishment of shelters to the existence of compensation funds, and a policy of education, awareness and prevention. Too bad, however, that the text approved by the House of Deputies does not contain any appropriations without which it will be difficult to follow the principles that have been signed. There is also the fundamental problem of the effective entry into force of the Convention, which will take place on the first day of the month following the expiry of a period of three months after the date on which ten signatories, of whom at least eight Member States of the Council of Europe, have expressed their consent to be bound by the Convention. It will therefore be a monk if the 29 signatory States do not speed up ratification practices which, to date, only concern Albania, Montenegro, Portugal and Turkey, although violence against women is a phenomenon that affects the whole of Europe, from North to South, from East to West. In 2012, according to ISTAT data, 3 million 961,000 women suffered physical violence and 5 million sexual violence. In Italy a woman is killed every three days or so. These data are alarming and are only those that emerged, since there are many others hidden behind fear. This Convention, if implemented by all Member States, could save and change the lives of millions of people and make a concrete contribution to improving respect for human rights and the status of women. That is why we hope that it will be quickly and constructively approved, as it represents a battle of civilizations to which politics and institutions cannot and must not escape. But that is not enough. Today, ladies and gentlemen, here and within the institutions, we are called upon to address a moral issue. We cannot remain silent in the face of violence. We cannot denounce it only after it has taken place. We must not just talk about the punishment of the crime, just the fact that it has been done. We will have to succeed in implementing a real change of course, implementing forms of prevention and education to a real gender equality from schools, also educating on how to denounce and how to protect oneself from violence. The goal to look at in order to generate a real change would, in fact, promote in society a real acquisition of awareness of the complexity and dignity of the person in all his or her genders. The obstacle to overcome is the tendency to reduce to the object of possession, real or virtual, the beauty of the bodies, especially of women, on television, on the web and in the newspapers. Of all the people represented in advertising as an object, more or less expressed, of desire and possession, women are perhaps those who pay a higher price. It is hardly appropriate to note that advertising, due to the refinement of persuasion methods and pervasiveness through newspapers and television, is now a costume generator, perhaps the strongest. It is flanked by commercial television, which feeds on the same schemes and the same schemes proposes: seminal bodies; cryptosexual winks in which food and woman are assimilated and powerful cars are seen as pots in which to entangle young women represented as preys more or less easy. In this anthropo-cultural context we generate not only the representation and self-representation of women as prey to the rich or powerful male, but also the compression of the realization of the female gender. If a woman wants to become a career, she should either let herself be courted by the powerful male or compete with the males at the expense of her femininity, with the sacrifice of motherhood or child care, socially posing as a male. In the end, the single woman succeeds in winning, but femininity is repressed and denied in its aspects that are not suited to the productive system. Such variations of women in contemporary western culture have been grafted into the traditional representations of women, reduced to only wife or mother, predestined therefore to sacrifice themselves to success also at the level of the image of the family: concepts that would have been overcome for decades if they had not been re-injected into the cultural fabric by massive doses of television serials of American or Latin American origin, proposed in the recent past by commercial televisions and chosen for their low cost. The problem we are trying to highlight is that the modification of the order, induced by the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, although necessary to stem the phenomena of violence against women, is not enough if it does not find a correspondence in a converging change of the social role of women, to be defined in the ethical and cultural anthropological sense. The equal dignity of genders must become fashionable; a judgment of ruthlessness towards androcentrism must be spread. To whom should the difficult task of promoting this profound change of culture be assigned? Which potentially most effective agencies? We would propose two: public school and mass media, through public service. Probably, neither of the two elements alone would show adequate effectiveness but, appropriately combined and combined, are elements that are recently proving good, for example in the fight against homophobia. The best vehicle, in addition to programs that stimulate the critical sense, is probably entertainment programs, fictions, which seem to be a driving force in the dissemination of opinions. Therefore, a strategy of this kind seems credible that the new rules can find effectiveness not only in sanctions but, first and foremost, in the progressive introjection of its ethical foundations in the customs of citizens. In conclusion, therefore, the 5 Star Movement proposes to take advantage of the occasion of the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence in order to adopt a multi-level action aimed at a real change of the conditions of women in Italy, which constitutes sufficient premise for the fight against crimes against them, but also for the culture underlying these crimes. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Del Barba and Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u18	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are on an important date which the House has already had the opportunity to approve, in an intense and important debate, and the Senate today concludes this significant path for the history of women, not only Italians, and their aspiration to equality and genuine emancipation. The preamble to this Convention recognizes and identifies the great importance of the issue of violence, that against women, as a manifestation of historically unequal relations of strength between the sexes, and aspires to create a Europe free from this violence. My colleague, Mr Nencini, is right, who spoke so passionately and with very important reflections before: we have so much care and attention to the numbers of Europe and the rules of Europe, but we often forget about Europe's principles and rights of citizenship. The Nice Charter and the Treaty of Lisbon, which Mr Nencini mentioned, are the most significant constitutional maintenance in Europe, the one we still have to build, and there is so much modernity and topicality in the analysis of time - those that formerly reminded us of Nencini of Dahrendorf and, I add, those of Jacques Delors - about Europe free from this violence. Minister Cancellieri is right when he says in a very simple way that violence against women is unacceptable in a civil society; a phenomenon that continues to grow in Italy, a spy of a culture atavistically against women. It is precisely from here that we must start and start again, and this was emphasized very well by the president of RAI Anna Maria Tarantola, in identifying in the joint effort in the workplace, in the family and through the media perhaps the way to go. For some time now we have been wondering how the representation of women through the media and advertising is decisive in strengthening the idea that women have become a commodity and their body considered only sexually and, as such, a property. CENSIS, within the framework of the 'Women and Media in Europe' project, has carried out a survey of the image of women in Italian television, and from this analysis it emerges that women, in the pre-season, use in our public television, dear President Zavoli, especially in the roles of actresses for 56.3%, of singers for 25% and models for 20%. The most frequent image of the woman, therefore, is that of the woman of show, while, in the information programs, the woman appears mainly inside black news services, for 67.8 percent, or in dramatic events in which she is involved as a victim of violence or abuse of all kinds. The research focused on the analysis of laws, self-regulation codes and good practices concerning gender stereotypes, through detection at the European Authorities and major television stations, which shows that the issue of combating gender stereotypes is taken as a major democratic and civil commitment but remains on paper. In the Senate legislative initiatives have been presented against the phenomenon of feminicide by all groups. A few days ago we shared one with Senator Mussolini, who introduced an attack on crimes against the person in cases of violence against women. But all the parliamentary groups have addressed a letter to President Grasso, on the initiative of Vice-President Fedeli, in which they call for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to outline this horrendous phenomenon. The Letta Government has set up an interministerial task force against violence against women and the figure of advisor for policies to combat gender violence and feminicide. I consider this to be an important act, which goes in the direction that Mr Nencini wanted in his speech. I also remember, however, in truth, that during the Berlusconi Government, in January 2011, that protocol of understanding was signed between the Ministry of Equal Opportunities and the Institute of Self-Discipline advertising that is perhaps the only formal act that we still have today. This protocol provides for advertising operators and their users to adopt models of commercial communication which do not contain images or representations of violence against women or which incite violence against women; protect the dignity of women, respecting the principle of equal opportunities and spreading positive values on the female figure; be attentive to the representation of genders and respectful of the identities of women and men, consistent with the evolution of roles in society; They avoid the use of gender stereotypes and further promote and strengthen the application of the ban on the use of the image of women in an offensive or discriminatory manner, or inciting violence against women. All important principles, which are not always expected in the right way, because we continue to see ourselves propose images that more and more women and girls today consider strident with their culture and their evolution. That is why serious work must be started immediately, in order to call everyone to respect and apply the rules that already exist. We have an obligation to give real and effective answers to the citizens, so as not to see any more heinous episodes such as those reported in the news reports. Losing more time on this front is really dangerous for democracy and its institutions. The data released by ISTAT in 2012, cited by many colleagues before me, now speak to us of a massacre, no more of a phenomenon with physiological contours. In fact, there are almost 7 million Italian women between 16 and 70 years of age who have suffered a form of physical or sexual violence in or outside the family; 1 million and 400,000 women have suffered forms of sexual violence before 16 years of age; over 7 million women have suffered or suffer psychological violence; 6.6 percent of the female population between 16 and 70 years of age, as I said before, have suffered forms of sexual violence before 16 years of age and in just under half of these cases violence is perpetrated by an acquaintance or relative. Regions with the highest shares of women who have suffered physical or sexual violence from any man are those of the North and those of the Centre, especially in metropolitan centres (42 percent). In Emilia-Romagna and Lazio there are more than 38 percent of the female population; in Liguria 35.4 percent, compared with a national average of 31.9 percent. Just 7% of those who suffer physical or sexual violence from their partner denounce them. This is justified by the fact that only one in three women considers them criminals and perhaps this is still the most disturbing aspect of this affair. The shares of women who complain are below the national average not only in all regions of the South, with the exception of Puglia, but also in some regions of the North, such as Piedmont or Emilia-Romagna. If one refers only to rape or attempted rape, the percentage of women who consider themselves victims of a crime rises to 26.5%, but complaints remain limited to 4.1 percent in cases of violence. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a sentence by Kofi Annan which seems to me very appropriate to today's vote: Women's rights are a responsibility of all mankind. Fighting all forms of violence against women is an obligation of humanity. The strengthening of the power of action of women means the progress of all humanity. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and SCpI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u20	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u21	Mr President, dear Senators, dear Senators, dear Deputy Minister, I believe that ratification of the Istanbul Convention is indeed an important act, which commits this Parliament to implementing concrete measures (as everyone has already pointed out, starting with the financing of the anti-violence centres for which the money will then be absolutely found) to combat and overcome violence against women, girls and children, and to improve the lives of all women and men. The reasons why the Convention is the most advanced instrument for combating gender-based violence have, in my opinion, been well presented in the excellent report by Senator Fattorini and in the joint motion that we shall be voting on. So, if you will allow me, I want to focus on three points, because violence against women is exactly a structural problem for men. Being a structural fact, I want to touch on three points that I consider important: stereotypes, language, education. Stereotypes are the mental images with which we represent reality. They are rigid simplifications that we use as shortcuts to the complexity of the world. They are social constructions that are gradually rooted, until they become stable ideas that are handed down between generations, in families, in schools. The use of gender stereotypes produces a rigid, distorted and illiberal representation of reality based on what we expect from women and men. They are well-established expectations that are not called into question because they seem to be based on biological differences between women and men. Those expectations, on the other hand, are cultural representations that derive from the experiences accumulated over time. Stereotypes have nothing natural, but they have the advantage of categorizing, of making simple what is complex. They are a cognitive forcing, which eliminates depth, complexity and differences. In Italy in particular there is strong resistance to overcoming a maleistic cultural model that does not conceive women in positions of equal power even in the recognition of gender difference. Also in the family, as evidenced by the question of the mother's surname. And it is not by chance that it is precisely in family models, in conceptions of the relationship of couple based on hierarchy, in an idea of love as possession that hide, often subtlely, not recognized, the cultural reasons that lead to violence against women, often - indeed, almost always - towards loved women. "I love you more than my life" is said; I love you more than your life: so either you're mine or I'll kill you. This is false love. Things have started to change in our society since the feminist and feminine movement, old and new, proposed a different idea of women, put freedom, autonomy and self-determination of women on the agenda and in the debate. But adapting language and overcoming the trivialization of cognitive shortcuts is difficult and slow, and we are very, very far behind. Language is the set of ways in which we give meaning to reality, we call it and communicate. In language stereotypes are formed and reside. In words, in images, in emotions that we use we nest discrimination. They nest, they root, they pass on. Why is it so difficult to adapt language to gender in the third millennium? This is a question of power. The world speaks and represents itself visually to the male, because male has always been the history of society. Let me give just one example: if I say "the ruler" it comes to mind who rules a country, but if I say "the ruler" it comes to mind who runs the house. Language, culturally rooted and crystallized in stereotypes, thus becomes an element of preservation rather than of progress, innovation and change. The media and information systems have a considerable responsibility in this respect, which, with a few exceptions, has not been able to cope with cultural and moral decay in recent years, which has accentuated the weight of stereotypes and gender discrimination. When the media reflect the national sexist climate without contrasting it, they actually amplify and legitimize it. Every time they recreate flattened, passive and stereotyped female models, they consolidate them. That goes for television, for information, for advertising. Sexist advertising isn't just about naked bodies. It is the one that reduces women to few recurrent and impoverished stereotypes. The Grand Jury's intervention is not enough. We need to work in advance: we need rules, we need sharing, we need a deep and constant innovation criterion. That's why I want to talk about education, too, and I'll finish. Educational intervention is the only tool we have to counter stereotypes by restoring to our representation of the world and of genres depth and complexity, equality and difference. School is the only chance we have to change our mindset and build new women and new men; a society in which the word "feminicide" must, at that point, be countered by the depths of the culture of boys and girls. That is why I believe that today, if we can implement everything that the Istanbul Convention proposes to us, we mark an important historical moment in our country. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and the Senators Bonfrisco and Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u22	The joint general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u23	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u24	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, very few words to express my thanks for the richness of this debate. If I may, I would like to make two final points. I am very pleased with the unanimity in the content of the debate, which will have a result in the final motion. However, as I have had the opportunity to say before, I am always wary of easy unanimity and therefore I would like to stress that despite this passion and enthusiasm of all - which I share, for which I thank you and many speeches this morning have emphasized - there is the risk of giving in to an easy gender rhetoric that could also be present in the principles underlying the Convention. I say this because this does not lead to effective results, concrete and confuses the waters a little. She noticed this this morning, Mrs Giannini and Senator Malan yesterday. Therefore, I take these nuances that are not such but significant of a mature, concrete, dry, real and not goodist approach, as the colleague of the League said, that has often resorted, even if the rawness of things, as Senator Faithli recalled in the last intervention, brings us back to the need, however, to really do things: things that have that imprint, a true contradiction that grasps women. However, we must not give in to rhetoric, because so many statements contained also in the preamble, if they can be valid, as Senator Malan pointed out yesterday, for Islam, certainly cannot be valid for us, where, as pointed out earlier by the Senator of the 5 Star Movement, the connection between difference and equality, that is, between being a woman who wants to remain a woman and the demand for real equality, is much more complicated and subtle. We must be aware of this complexity in order to see prevention and culture, to really focus on the reconstruction of the fabric of relationships in a postmodern society that does not have the brutality of an Islamic world (I think about Asian situations), but requires more finesse and much, much concreteness. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the appeal, which seems to me to be well contained in the unitary motion, to a sober and effective recognition of women's rights, which alludes to a vision of human rights as proof of civilization, as we have always said. This leads to two very concrete requests, which I explicitly address to the Government: the first is to limit the operational scope in a few clear requests, which should be supported by this interministerial structure, also light but effective, which manages to find essential funds for protection and prevention. It is therefore a demand for resources, few but certain, and a light structure, which is not added to the plethora of committees and bodies, but which really has the function of draining resources and acting urgently and in the medium to long term. The second request is to really activate, as Mr Bonino and Mr Dassu called for, a concrete, real and effective pressing on the appropriate bilateral and multilateral fora, so that the other Member States of the European Union ratify the Convention quickly so that it can actually be implemented. I therefore urge a common awareness that the gravity of the issue must lead us to an attitude that is not rhetorical or emphatic, but very concrete and effective with demands of healthy and true reformism. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senator Bisinella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u25	I call on the representatives of the Government to speak on the motions before us.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u26	Mr President, the Government's opinion on motions No 56 presented by Senator Bitonci and other senators, and No 64, by Senator Fattorini and other senators, is in favour without any request for amendment, considering that the points made in the arrangements are already the subject of commitments made by the Government to the House, with the approval of unitary motions of all groups and agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u27	Mr President, I would like to say a few words at the end of a debate which I have found very interesting and also very important. I don't think it happens every day, either to you or to us as representatives of the Government, to listen to such convincing speeches and to participate in such an important collective action. You are about to vote on the first bill of ratification of this Parliament: it has already been done by the House of Deputies and today the Senate will have to do so. I consider it important that the first bill of ratification concerns this issue, both symbolically and from a practical point of view. Therefore, I very much thank all of you who have committed themselves to this action: the rapporteur, Senator Elena Fattorini, and yesterday the Senators Biinella and Mussolini, who supplemented the presentation of the two motions. The latter, in my view (in this regard, Mr Legnini has already given the technical opinion), are completed; they have different accents, but in reality they cover the three points that seem fundamental to me, namely prevention, protection and punishment. These three aspects are present, with different accents on the famous three "P" in both motions. I have listened to Senator Fattorini's reply and I believe that as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs it is my responsibility to insist on one point: our commitment to ensure that the Istanbul Convention does not remain on paper (a risk that many of you have rightly pointed out), but will soon be implemented. As you know, ten ratifications are needed, including eight of the countries belonging to the Council of Europe. We are already putting all possible pressure, both bilaterally and multilaterally, on our partners - I am addressing Senator Fattorini in particular. As far as we know - and I would like to inform this House - four Member States of the Council of Europe have already committed themselves to ratifying the Convention this year: Finland, the Netherlands, Serbia and Austria. At that point, we will reach nine countries, a number which - as we know - is not yet sufficient; then there are eight other countries - France, Germany, Poland, Sweden, Norway, Greece, Georgia and Belgium - which have committed themselves to ratify as soon as possible. Therefore, the commitment of Minister Bonino, who has already made clear this point, and my staff and that of my fellow Vice-Ministers, will be to push at least one of these eight countries to ratify as soon as possible so that the Istanbul Convention can enter into force. The fact that this Convention is ratified by our country (for this reason the Government hopes for a very rapid vote, which it would be extremely satisfied with) could have a drag effect; in the end, Italy is the first great country of the European Union to ratify the Istanbul Convention. For Italy it is a key theme for the internal reasons that you have so well described. I believe that the creation of a task force is an important signal of the speed with which we want to move, and this must be acknowledged by Minister Idem (who unfortunately cannot be here today, in this House). Mr Bonino has also received this invitation, and the task force is leaving today. As Senator Fattorini and many other colleagues have rightly pointed out, there is a problem of funds. As you know, there is an opinion on financial neutrality and so today we are voting on ratification under the financial neutrality regime, but this does not prevent us from looking for and finding funds afterwards. For us, this is also an important issue of general foreign policy. Mr Bonino wanted to give a tone, a cut of this kind too, of this kind (to use the word appropriate) to his foreign policy, and so we signed the action of the G8 against violence against women and last April we signed the Vienna Declaration on Femicide: this is an important statement that will be presented as a resolution to the next United Nations Assembly. Finally, if I can combine the threads of this interesting debate, I think I can draw two general indications, perhaps much less conceptual and political than the points that have been outlined here, but which are operationally very important. The first concept, which emerged in all the speeches, is that this is only a starting point. This is a first step, as you have said quite rightly, which will really make sense in the fight against violence against women if we can follow a series of concrete actions both in terms of internal adjustment and in terms of international initiative. This is a first point that seems important to me. The second point you have made quite rightly is that action against violence against women, both internally and internationally, cannot remain an emerging action - as it has been up to now - but must become structural. All the calls made in the very good and interesting debate that took place in this House were therefore important. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u28	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u29	The Economic Planning Committee, the budget, examined the draft law in its capacity, shall express, as far as it is within its competence, a non-obstacle opinion, on the assumption that, when implementing measures are adopted, adequate financial resources shall be allocated, where necessary, to ensure that the commitments contained in the Convention are met in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u30	I warn my fellow Members that, in accordance with the most recent practice, motions will be voted after the final vote on draft law No 720. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the G100 agenda, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u31	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u32	The Government, Mr President, also expresses a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u33	Having been accepted by the Government, the G100 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u36	Gibiino (PdL). Mr President, I would like to point out that during the first vote I was mistakenly abstaining from voting, whereas in fact the vote was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u37	I take note of that. Thank you for your clarification. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 260 Senators voting 257 Majority 129 Favorables 257]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. No 720, 243, 641 and 729 and related motions nos. 56 and 64 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 260 Senators voting 257 Majority 129 Favourites 256 Contrars 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. No 720, 243, 641 and 729 and related motions nos. 56 and 64
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u40	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, I mistakenly voted against. My vote was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u43	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I have not been able to vote. However, the vote was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u46	AMATI (PD). Mr President, my vote was also in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u49	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, my vote was also in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u52	FLORIS (PdL). Mr President, my vote was also in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u55	MASTRANGELI (Mixed). Mr President, my vote was also in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He made a mistake once again; we take note of it... MASTRANGELI (Mixed). But I would like to point out something else... ( [[Comments from the Pdl Group]] PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. I am referring to other errors in voting, not to anything else... MASTRANGELI (Mixed). President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: That's the only reason you have the word. MASTRANGELI (Mixed). But I wanted to point out... Now you don't have to report anything... Mastrangeli (Mist). I want to point out that there was a pianist. [[Comments of the PdL Group]] Can I report it?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u56	Senator Mastrangeli, Secretary Senators will verify. Senator De Biasi told the Presidency that she was unable to vote in favour of a malfunction of the voting mechanism.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u59	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, my Group will vote in favour of ratification of the Convention. I appreciated and shared the debate that has taken place in this House today and I too consider the ratification of the Convention only as the first step in a work, especially cultural work, that we will have to do to change gender relations. The Convention, as has been mentioned, is the first international act that recognises violence against women as a violation of human rights and as a form of discrimination. This is an important point. There have been many interventions that have remembered that the violence consumed within the walls of the house, where there is an habitual aspect, hidden and private, is the first cause of death among women. It is a form of violence that is difficult to extinguish, because women themselves have difficulty in bringing it to light: in fact, it is very difficult to admit that physical, sexual violence and insecurities are born where we seek security and shelter, that is, in the family. From yesterday's and this morning's debate it has emerged that violence is not a problem that concerns the private sphere; on the contrary, it represents the most brutal symbol of inequality in our society, precisely because it is determined by social, cultural and economic factors, and it is one of the worst forms of discrimination. It is the way in which men - as has been said - exercise power and control over partners: many men believe, in fact, that they have the right to use physical, verbal, emotional and sexual violence. If, therefore, there is no clear social condemnation, these behaviours will continue to exist. There is therefore a social dimension to violence, precisely because it affects all and not just individual women, but families and the whole community, in terms of health, psychological and social development and equal opportunities for the people involved, without neglecting the high social and economic costs that it entails for the whole of society. The conquest of equality - it has been said - and respect for human dignity and the freedom of the person must, therefore, be primary objectives for the whole of society. The text of the Convention on this is very clear, speaking precisely of prevention and conflict. We think of a set of targeted interventions, with a long social work of prevention, training and education. We confess that we have not been particularly attracted by the hypothesis of the task force launched by some ministers in the aftermath of the umpteenth cruel acts against women, because this recalls an emerging logic. As the Deputy Minister said a moment ago in her reply, we ask instead for important structural interventions to support that network of people who, in recent years, without a clear legislative framework, have nevertheless represented a starting point, of contrast to the phenomenon and of support for women who have suffered violence. Let us think of the anti-violence centres and the associations of women who promoted them, as well as the houses of refuge; let us think of those situations that have experienced the capacity for concrete reception of women and women with children, through the involvement of a network at a territorial level (social centres, social workers, lawyers, doctors, teachers and magistrates) that has been created even before many legislative interventions at regional level. In this regard, as has been pointed out by many colleagues in yesterday's debate, it would also be important to refer to what has been done in the meantime in so many regions: I think, for example, of the experience of Tuscany - the one I know best - where a law was passed some time ago that, with regard to structural interventions, provided for an integrated multidisciplinary system, in support, precisely, of a network spread in the territories. At a territorial level, we cannot leave out training for law enforcement, which are often the first to be involved, even if they are not always able to intervene and fully perceive the dynamics of complex family contexts. Also important is the involvement of the E.R. structure - we said at least one for ASL - for a fair and prompt reporting, because that is where the long path of freedom of women starts. In the same way, we consider interesting the experiences initiated in some territories of our country of listening centers for abusive men, men who are reflecting on their own behaviors, on anger, on relational problems, on parenthood and who need help and support. In any case, as has been repeated in many interventions, the great work is that of cultural and social prevention, a work to be done with schools for the educational role they have, starting from the school of childhood up to the university with gender studies. Gender equality, in fact, as well as gender language, and the male-female relationship must become a cultural reference throughout the school period, certainly contributing also to the overcoming of gender roles too often stereotyped. We must, therefore, find resources for the training of teachers and workers, precisely for serious and concrete work, so as to be able to have a profound impact on change, on the assumption of the responsibilities of men and women and on the achievement of an equal democracy within family and emotional relationships. No less important, as has been mentioned, is the role of the media, which should use a language more respectful of human dignity and female figures. All too often, in fact, we hear wrong advertising messages in the schedules, television broadcasts and news headlines, where sexism and homophobia prevail in the exasperated exaltation of what Lorella Zanardo has defined very well in the body of women. This is a commitment to which, I believe, not even politics can escape anymore because in the last twenty years a negative contribution has been made to cultural models. I conclude by saying that the Convention will have a fundamental and concrete importance for the mechanisms that it will be able to set in motion, because we would like to prevent it from being yet another excellent statement. The paradox is that for two days in this House we have discussed the dignity and freedom of women through the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, while in these days, in that very city, there is a huge violation of human rights denounced by everyone. I believe that the signing and approval of the Convention can also be a strong signal to help the liberation struggle in Turkey. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u62	Bianconi (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention, made in Istanbul on 11 May 2011 and which we are preparing to transpose by this act, allows Italy to take a further step in the fight against violence, against all forms of violence, but with particular attention to that and to women. This type of violence has multiple manifestations and is one of the most shameful among those who harm human rights: what is more brutal than the violence of a human being on another human being? That is why I will continue to call it a crime against humanity in all my speech, and we must ask ourselves deeply about it. Already in preparation for the signing of the Convention, the Italian Parliament, in the 16th legislature, had addressed numerous acts of direction to the Government. I would like to remind you briefly that on 20 September 2012 the Senate approved an agenda and seven motions, which committed the Government to signing the Istanbul Convention and to implement what it had planned, also following the findings of the UN Special Rapporteur on violence against women in our country. I do not want to go into the usual list of women who have suffered violence in these years, months or days or, because of them, have even lost their lives; there are many, always too many, but relegating them to a trivial list is not useful to them or to our society. On the other hand, I believe it is useful to renew the objectives to be set by the institutions, associations, the media and no less than the world of school and culture. Among these, I believe it is important to promote a radical change in mentality, through the affirmation of a new thought that prevents the reduction of the person concerned, as required by the Convention itself. We must remember that the problem of violence against women is not a remnant of the past and should not be underestimated. In addition to acts of physical and psychic aggression, we must fight all those phenomena that cause the continuous erosion of female dignity. Italy does not start from scratch on the issue of the fight against violence against women. Law No. 38 of 2009 introduced in our country the crime of stalking, which already incorporates good practices to combat persecutory acts, as provided for in the Convention that we are preparing to ratify. However, the state's shortcomings are still evident in the face of an ordeal of threats and violence: women often face the slowness of the bureaucracy of the judicial system. In this obstacle course the case gets lost and the complaint goes into prescription, with the result that the victim remains alone. That is why we need to start from the data, which we can also find through the law enforcement agencies and associations working in the fight against violence against women, and to make serious legislative planning. There are already many legislative proposals in this area, which are also useful for remedying these stretch marks. Allow me, therefore, to say that I welcomed the Government's commitment to dealing with the phenomenon of violence against women by acting in synergy between the different Dicasteries with precise plans and actions: the promotion of an interministerial table for the preparation of coordinated projects throughout the national territory, in order to ensure greater effectiveness in the fight against gender violence, and no less the establishment of a permanent National Observatory on violence against women (of which, I would like to remind you, we have been talking for years), which is certainly an initiative to be taken seriously. I trust, therefore, that the President of the Council, Enrico Letta, Minister Alfano, Minister Cancellieri and Minister Idem will be able to express his commitment immediately. To you, Madam Deputy Minister, I would like to express a particular appreciation for the important result obtained with the recent meeting you have promoted to listen to the base, or rather all that irreplaceable world formed by women's associations and no less by volunteers, representatives of schools, the health sector and the police, daily engaged in the front line in preventing and combating violence against women and children. In this regard, I would like to inform you, Madam Vice Minister, that since I have been in contact with those responsible for the health sector who have activated the principals in Rosa in the First Aid, I am considering with them some actions - which I will propose - to improve the first reception service of the woman who has suffered violence and no less than the children who may be involved. Finally, by declaring the LAG Group's vote in favour, I would like to highlight three priorities that are particularly close to my heart. The first concerns the promotion of a specific cultural campaign through the media, but no less by means of training courses to be carried out in schools of first and second degree that can involve the law enforcement authorities responsible for informing and raising awareness among our young people. On this point I know that the Ministre Idem and Carrozza have already expressed themselves positively. The second priority concerns the creation of a family judge who can only deal with reports of crime concerning gender violence, ill-treatment in the family, personal injury, non-compliance with family obligations and all persecutory acts. In essence, it would be a prosecutor established at each prosecutor's office, in order to obtain faster and more incisive decisions on measures to protect the victim and his family. In this respect, too, I know the great sensitivity of Minister Cancellieri and Minister Alfano. The third priority I intend to address, while acknowledging that we are living in a moment of serious economic crisis, is the establishment of a precise and tied fund for the support of anti-violence centres and to promote, where necessary, the reintegration of the woman who has suffered violence, thus supporting it also economically; without money, Madam Minister, we cannot help women to rebuild their future and very often denounce their husbands. All these steps the Istanbul Convention promotes them; it is now up to us, all together, to implement them in practice. [[Applause from the Gal, PdL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u65	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, Mrs Ministro, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to add anything to everything that has already been said in these two days of authoritative speeches which have preceded me and in which, in practice, we have all touched on the key points of this important problem. So the issue of violence against women is unfortunately extremely topical and continues to engage the institutions in a strict manner at all levels of the so-called most advanced and civilised countries. As we have heard in these two days, the news events that refer to great episodes of abuse and violence, which have as victims a woman, are unfortunately on the agenda also in our country. As the latest events have shown, they are even more serious, absurd and difficult to understand when they are young children who should - I say - have assimilated the basic rules of respect and tolerance, which should be taught by families and especially by educational institutions. So I would like briefly to highlight only two aspects, which are precisely the important point of the document. In addition to the extremely important aspects of the Istanbul Convention concerning commitments to take responsibility from the health and social point of view for the reintegration of women, I would like to highlight Chapter III, which relates to prevention, information and education aimed primarily at young people. These are the most important subjects in order to try to solve at the root this serious problem of distortion, unfortunately, of so many cultures and peoples. It is necessary to enter the schools as soon as possible, in order to affect effectively in the minds of children against ways of thinking and considering women heritage of backward and now outdated mentality, unfortunately still well present in all corners and not only of our country, from the South to the North, but also of Europe. Another point to highlight, which has also been touched on by other colleagues, is the recovery of those who carry out the act of violence, which must be included - I think it is very important - in a cultural operation that affects this important issue at 360 degrees. Before concluding, I would like to recall - as already pointed out in a speech this morning - that we are not in the year zero in Italy: the Regions have already put in place many initiatives and many laws. I had the honour in Valle d'Aosta, as city councilman, to present and have the law against violence against women approved in the regional council, and other regions have moved in this direction. For years, ASL has put in place reception systems for women who are the victims of violence and their children. We are therefore not in the year zero, but surely ratification of this Convention represents a further step towards full recognition and full protection of women in our modern society. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and Senator Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u68	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are finally ratifying a very important Convention, that of Istanbul, aimed at preventing and combating feminicides, rapes and other forms of gender-based violence. In contrast to violence against women, Italy - as other colleagues have also mentioned - is among the first in the class, at least on paper. After the House unanimously approved this Convention on Tuesday 28 May, it is up to us colleagues in the Senate to confirm this strong commitment to will and action. I would also like to thank my fellow men who have spoken in the debate and during the explanation of vote to point out that this is a dramatic problem that must be addressed by all of us in society. The news pages of recent times in fact report too frequently - I would say almost daily - episodes of violence against women perpetrated in most cases in a family and domestic context by men who are fathers, boyfriends and husbands. In the past year there have been more than 120 victims and so far their number is impressive and has still increased; this is unacceptable. The phenomenon that today has gained visibility in the newspapers in all its drama, unfortunately is not occasional or just born, but is now finally analyzed in its specificity. The circumstance that crimes are committed primarily by a man who has, or has had, a relationship of affection or knowledge with the woman, explicit a social dimension of violence, even more worrying because the home walls are often the crime scene. This phenomenon has proved to be of such magnitude as to justify the choice of coining the specific term "feminicide" to indicate man's misogynistic violence against women as women, introducing a gender perspective in the study of crimes. It is of fundamental importance to ensure the ratification of this Convention quickly, because at the moment - I would like to remind you - it is not yet in force; we will be the fifth state, after Albania, Portugal, Montenegro and Turkey, to have ratified it (and in these days talk about Turkey ratifying and proposing a Convention like this, with what is happening there, makes us think). However, there are still twenty states, including France, Germany, Spain, England and Sweden, which have not yet ratified the Treaty. However, the ratifications of five other states will be needed before international discipline can enter into force, which is why it is important to speed up. 11:22 a.m. (Follows Bisinella). On the subject, what exactly does the Convention propose? What I would like to stress is that, from a general point of view, it is established that violence against women is a manifestation of the historically unequal force relations between the sexes, which have led to domination over women and discrimination against them by men and prevented their full emancipation, that violence has a structural nature, being based on gender and is one of the crucial social mechanisms by which women are forced into a subordinate position with respect to men. In terms of definition, violence against women is considered to be a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination. The important thing is that the International Treaty imposes a number of obligations on States to adopt coordinated policies against violence against women and to provide for data collection to monitor the phenomenon. States must commit themselves to the prevention of these hateful crimes by eliminating prejudices, customs, traditions and any other practice based on the idea of women's inferiority or on stereotyped models of women's and men's roles, in particular by supporting awareness-raising campaigns and - I would like to stress this - by also providing appropriate school programmes, encouraging information and media to develop self-regulation rules. The Convention takes into account a series of violent behaviours against women and obliges States to punish them, most of the time also by acting in criminal law; it lists stalking, physical violence, rape, forced marriage, genital mutilation, abortion or forced sterilization, sexual harassment. States must provide compensation for victims in any case and the possibility, in the case of forced marriage, to invalidate the union without excessive charges for those who denounce it. There are procedural provisions, based above all on the identification of protection measures for victims: this is a fundamental aspect, because all too often - and the daily reports of the feminicides say - violence could have been avoided by sterilizing it in the bud, if only it had acted more quickly. The Convention also provides that the offences in question are to be prosecuted even without the victim's complaint. If there is a complaint, but then it is withdrawn and the accusations retracted, the state must provide that the trial can continue. The importance of standards like this has also been seen recently, for example in the case of the young woman of Caserta, who first denounced and then forgiven her persecutor. Beyond the will of the victim (who is often also a victim from a psychological point of view), the State, also ours, must be able to continue the process. Therefore, the Convention that we are about to ratify is, in essence, the objective of protecting women from all forms of violence and of helping to eliminate all forms of discrimination, including from the judicial point of view. But the most important parts of the Treaty to which I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members are those - if well-transmitted - of a more cultural nature, where we are asked to intervene in schools, in the media, in education in general, in order to make those steps which are still necessary for the affirmation of a non-discriminatory image of women. In fact, this is the last part of the Treaty, where it is expected that the States will elect, within one year of the entry into force of the Convention, a body responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Convention. This is the GREVIO, the Group of Experts on the fight against violence against women and domestic violence, composed of persons of high morality and competence, to whom the reports of the States are submitted. Many countries today have observers and data collections that allow them to have data broken down by gender, while in our country the only available data are those obtained from the news reported in the newspapers, since there is no observatory responsible for monitoring this submerged phenomenon. Therefore, with the establishment of this body, Italy will be constantly monitored in its progress in the fight against violence against women, and this represents a significant step forward. And if the instruments already exist in criminal law, then it would be up to policy to focus its efforts on the affirmation of a different cultural model. Violence against women is a manifestation of historically unequal relations of strength between the sexes and one of the crucial social mechanisms through which women are often forced into a subordinate position with respect to men also from an economic point of view. Therefore, the key to preventing this phenomenon, in my opinion, is the achievement of gender equality de iure, but also de facto. We really hope that today's ratification will be a further step towards this objective, which must be the main objective, namely to develop awareness and knowledge of the dramatic phenomenon that is present in our society, and that it can therefore contribute to raising awareness in all institutions and civil society of the actual nature of the problem. Only with a real change, first of all cultural, can the terrible phenomenon of feminicide and in general violence against women be defeated. However, this ratification is only a first step for us, a start on policies that must be serious, supportive and counter-violence. There are a number of open issues that need to be addressed. The government, we have heard in these days, on the one hand affirms important and agreeable commitments on the subject, but then, going specifically, there are some contradictions, for example where it is evident that there is need for funding and contributions for those on the territory, at local level, dealing with the promotion of equal opportunities and gender rights. It seems to me, then, a resounding contradiction with the declarations of intent: the government must take as a priority the financing of these projects and services against gender violence, otherwise the speeches we are making about policies and cultures remain meaningless. It is necessary, then, in addition to preventing, punishing in a strict manner, applying the penalty in a rigorous manner and applying the principles of effectiveness, effectiveness and certainty of the penalty. You're nothing but emptycarceries, colleagues! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Restrictive measures must be applied from the very first warning, because then it almost systematically results in violence. Support, support and dissemination networks for the culture of respect for women should also be financed. In essence, this represents a step forward that helps to fight what can really be called, in my opinion, subculture of possession, which takes value from the lives of women. In 2013, a country that knows and lives daily the brutality of the physical, psychological domination of too many men over women, cannot be defined civil. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u71	ROMANO (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, Madam Minister, we will shortly be approving the draft law "Ratification and enforcement of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence" in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. Our country signed the Convention on 27 September 2012, with the explicit declaration that will be applied in compliance with constitutional principles and forecasts and, in this case, Article 3 (c) of the Convention itself. The Convention's instrument represents the most advanced level of the international standard for preventing and combating the complex phenomenon of violence against women and the protection of victims. In line with the typical formula of the European treaties on the contrast of special forms of violence and abuse, the reference is to the three constituent moments of the conventional guarantee architecture, and therefore to the prevention, protection and support of victims and the punishment of the perpetrators of the violations, accompanied and reinforced by a series of other political and social commitments aimed at the implementation of integrated strategies for the fight against and the elimination of violence against women and domestic violence. These crimes, however, already appear largely sanctioned by the penal code in the context of crimes against individual safety, against personal freedom and against moral freedom, sometimes under a different nomen juris. Within the international community, the Italian law is one of those already ensuring a high degree of compliance with the Convention, including in terms of criminal protection. This obviously does not mean that violence against women and domestic violence are residual crimes in our society. Far from it. Recent chronicles have highlighted the frequent drama, whose statistical listing does not end in the need for mere ratification and implementation of the Convention in question: they are social wounds. Is it not inscribed in the fundamental rights of every human being the protection of life and its intrinsic dignity? Does it still need to say today that violence against women is intolerable? Is there a need for a Convention which announces, as immediately and tangibly evident, the unbearableness of these crimes? Are there, perhaps, crimes against the most bearable person and others less? Every action carried out by force, physical or psychological, aimed at prevarication on the other, to the point of taking away life, is always and in any case unacceptable and unbearable. I ask myself other questions: can the ratification of a Convention represent a concrete, at least desirable, turning point to an increasingly obvious drift? How many conventions, protocols, European charters, recommendations, international pacts and statutes predate the text of the Istanbul Convention, yet the results achieved so far are certainly not encouraging? Do we believe that, with the ratification and implementation of this Convention, we have fully fulfilled our role as legislators? Can the Convention - the last and not the second question - represent the hub for a social culture, fully felt and lived, that recognizes women as referred to in Articles 2, 3 and 32 of the Constitution? Before giving an answer, even partial, to the above questions, a premise is necessary in order to avoid uncertain interpretations: the bill, aimed at the ratification of the Convention, must be approved. It represents a tangible sign of legislative sensitivity and interprets politics as the ethics of coexistence. The national and international community repeatedly affirms - I am right to say - principles and values that must place living where there is no prevarication and oppression, and there is no violence even more against those who - in a certain way - find themselves in situations of particular fragility. Yet, despite the plurality of conventions, norms, laws, declarations and treaties, violence against women (and not only) continues to be news of our day: tips of iceberg, mostly submerged. The common awareness is therefore required that, while making use of the deterrent, punitive and pedagogical role of the norm, it requires concrete cultural action aimed at the recognition of the intrinsic dignity of women. I believe that community action should neither be confined to the mere application of the Convention. Today's debate puts to the attention of all of us the devastating inner void that generates contempt for our own and others' lives, supported by an anthropological reductionism that from the global vision of the person turns to the only body dimension, biological, mechanistic, reductionistic, in which the choices are guided by the simple "feeling," that is to say an absolute to be satisfied. And in homage to this totem, how many women violated, how many lives destroyed, how many open and painful wounds, how many irreparable defeats. If the Convention is to be transposed - in political, social and cultural sharing - as a substantive expression of female dignity, as the reception and care of the female world, it can be hoped that it will foster the development of educational-training paths, in which complementary male-female conjugation represents encounter and non-possession, and not domination. Otherwise it will be yet another sterile statement. In the light of the above, the Civic Choice Group for Italy declares its vote in favour of the draft law ratifying the Istanbul Convention. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u74	DE PIETRO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my particular satisfaction that the Italian Parliament intended to include the ratification and implementation of the Istanbul Convention as one of the first work of this legislature, namely the first legally binding international instrument establishing, within the framework of the Council of Europe, a mechanism for the protection of women against all forms of violence, including prevention, repression but also, not secondary, assistance and protection of victims. As the rapporteur in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Senator Fattorini, to whom she commends her timely and valuable statement, this document represents the most advanced point of international law on the subject, as well as the first treaty recognising violence against women as a violation of human rights and as a form of discrimination, thus constituting a violation of the principle of equality between the sexes. Finally, an archaic and brutal era has closed. The Western world, which has been a global legal driving force for centuries, which has shown its superiority in recognizing civil rights and ethical and moral principles of absolute scope, has finally decided to equip itself with adequate legal instruments aimed at dealing with a modern social scourge that is sadly characterizing the beginnings of this millennium: violence in all its forms against the most exposed and most unable to defend itself and react. The rationale, legislative structure, objectives and ethical need of this standard have been clearly and in detail identified. And this is a great sign of civilization, but above all it is a collective awareness of the international community that this phenomenon had to be regulated in the shortest possible time and in the most decisive and incisive ways. Among the main aspects we want to highlight a peculiarity of this norm, of which it is never rhetorical to speak, especially in the light of the chilling facts of daily news that see protagonists and victims women and unfortunately children, that to pursue not only the aim of legislative protection women from all forms of violence and to counter the inhumanity of domestic violence, but also to help eliminate all forms of discrimination against them and promote concrete equality between the sexes, strengthening the autonomy and self-determination of women as such. We believe that this is a very important aspect of the Convention to consider. For too long the problem of absolute and complete equality between men and women has been addressed, even in this country, with much superficiality, as has happened on other social issues. We hope that, by transposing into our legal system this central international regulatory complex on the protection of women, the entire social concept in Italy on substantial equality between men and women finds its valuable foundation and its legislative lighthouse. Often in the past - and it is certainly not necessary to teach us Italians, sons of the legal body of Roman law - from the ethical core of legal norm society has drawn and developed a common sense and a positive and innovative code of conduct. The fact that we will be the fifth member of the Council of Europe to ratify the Convention must only make us proud. The North European countries, especially in the Anglo-Saxon world, following historical-media stereotypes and pre-conceptual nature, look to the Italians still as a people linked to old-fashioned and anachronistic male family patterns in which emerges the figure of the father-husband master. We know that this has not been the case for some generations now, but abroad they have a different perception. Giving this signal, evidently of opposite sign, means finally getting rid of this ancient image of the Mediterranean family in which the woman plays only a marginal role. However, we cannot deny that the violence that surrounds the black news of the national media is the result of a cultural insufficiency against which it is appropriate to intervene in a timely manner. The institutions of this country have a duty to commit themselves effectively to creating the best legal conditions for combating all forms of suppression of the will and individual freedom of women. We parliamentarians must stand across and without hesitation therefore against all the profiles of moral and material passivity to which Italian women are subjected and against the "prisons of indifference" within which some beceri individuals relegate their wives, ex-wives, girlfriends, ex-girlfriends, sisters, relatives, friends. A passivity that manifests itself in the imposition of the social rules of tradition, invading life choices up to the most barbaric forms of suppression of the will and consequent physical and sexual violence. This unnatural passivity, the inability to rebel, the absence of conditions and welfare to react to abuse then produces the widespread cultural acceptance of violence. It is there that the State, with the appropriate legislative and structural instruments, must intervene, enhancing the resources, skills and professionalism that it has at its disposal. A state that does not deal, through laws, with the phase of social protection of the most exposed subjects, becomes an accomplice of the material executioner. An important instrument of legislative innovation in this respect, in recent years, has proved to be the Act on stalking. It wasn't enough. The news tells us that more must be done to defend women from unjustified violence. The Convention will serve this substantial cultural innovation. One of its objectives is to revisit the whole system of school prevention and information first, and then the media, on the problem. This is another aspect on which to focus the regulatory spotlight following ratification. In terms of education to respect the figure of the woman, a fundamental game is played. Many aberrations that we have read in the newspapers in recent days, concerning the most heinous feminicides, arise from the cultural humus of the lack of consideration of the will to self-determination of women. In this delusional context of values, a sexual or sentimental denial is the prerequisite for the physical annihilation of a person, almost no longer considered as such, but as an inanimate thing, devoid of individual will, unworthy of collective regard and social recognition. With the hope that the transposition and implementation of this measure can only be the first step or at least the cornerstone on which to make legislative substance nervous to the historical need for real equality between men and women, I declare my Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u77	ALBERTI CASELLATI (PdL). Madam President, Senators, Minister, we are about to take a decision on a bill that is finally about women, on which there is the convinced and unanimous applause of the People of Freedom Group. I stress this: women. It is not a banality, it is not a semantic matter, it is a great novelty and I want to explain it. Recently, rules have been adopted that can be considered the precedents of this intervention to combat violence against women, because in Italy, as has been pointed out here, we are not at the zero year. I am thinking of Decree-Law No. 11 of 2009 against sexual violence and persecutory acts: well, of the 14 broad articles of that decree-law, the only one concerning women is that which increases the penalty of persecutor acts to the detriment of a pregnant woman. Being pregnant, one could not help but refer to a woman! For all the rest, the normative interventions concern the person offended, an abstract person offended, who in the greatest totality of cases is obviously a woman. I still remember, in order to have often intervened with the vigour and conviction that I felt necessary, the issue of equal opportunities in electoral matters. I remember - without particular pleasure - the lexical pudore that became necessary, the reference to neutral concepts such as "none of the two sexes" or to "candidates of different sex" because otherwise the principle of equality between the sexes would have been violated - paradoxically enough - the principle of equality between the sexes. Therefore, we intervene to rebalance a sensationally unequal situation at the expense of women, but we cannot use the word woman or, if we use it as in the Constitution, in Articles 51 and 117 that we have reformed, we cannot write alone, but in the formula "equality" between women and men. Even in the code of equal opportunities, these are - indeed - the equal opportunities of men and women. In short, when promoting equal opportunities, women are always flanked by men (which I can also understand), but when it comes to violence, women who suffer it are facing them. It will be obvious, obvious, obvious, but it is significant the clarity with which it emerges in the texts at our examination that it is usually men who kill and beat women and not the opposite. Dramatic data show that every day in Europe seven women are killed by their partners and that last year, in Italy, more than 120 women were killed, practically one every three days: this is a real death! This is the simple but extraordinary novelty of this bill and of the Convention that is ratified with it: it contains seventy times the word women and 70 times the word finally. As I have already pointed out, it is not a semantic issue, but a real qualitative leap, which is already measured in that part of the preamble which, after recognizing the structural nature of violence against women as gender violence, also recognises that women are exposed to a higher risk of gender violence than men. Consequently, Article 3 of the Convention defines gender violence against women as violence directed against a woman as such or which affects women disproportionately. It is an incontrovertible, tragic and urgent fact in the daily news of our country, where the dramatic force of events has made almost inevitable a neologism, which really would not have been coined: feminicide. An aberrant phenomenon against which, together with my colleague Mussolini, first signatory, and many Senators and Senators of the Group, we presented a bill with a clear and unequivocal title: "Introduction of the crime of feminicide". This is the cultural leap. Not abstract norms on gender violence, not abstract norms on the violence of one sex against another, but targeted and more necessary guidelines against a disturbing, hateful, terrible phenomenon that must be countered with clear, specific and determined rules: not rules aimed at countering a theoretical violence of one sex against another, but violence against women. This is the great value of the Istanbul Convention, this is the great value of this ratification, which we hope will contribute to an early entry into force. The degree of readiness and the level of consensus with which Parliament is proceeding to mark, hopefully, a road for other European partners are a source of pride for our country. What we are doing will strengthen the drive for a faster process of entry into force. The Convention goes in the right direction and must be supported. His speech is not different from what had been done in the most recent Conventions of the Council of Europe itself and, among other things, in the Lanzarote Convention, also recently ratified by Italy. It is based on the four "p": prevention, protection, prosecution and participation. I very much welcome (I said this at the outset) the clear and responsible approach adopted by the Convention towards the pursuit of violence against women, the third "p." However, I want to make at least one mention of the first two "p" not less important, protection and prevention, because prosecuting the culprits is fundamental, but alone it cannot be enough. Thus, among the many measures, the Convention stipulates that both non-governmental organisations for women's protection and compensation for women who have suffered violence must be financed from public resources. It is a commitment that must not remain a good intention. This also applies to the news that often does not give the proper prominence to this real social emergency. Just remember the last episode of the sixteen-year-old Corigliano Calabro, about which the aspects of a lost love were emphasized rather than those related to prevarication and violence. It must not remain a good intention also for justice, because a sentence made after too many years, even if it is right, is itself a form of violence. The Minister's statements give us hope. But in Parliament I want to voice the doubt that the national equals councilwoman Alessandra Servidori recently expressed: do we not create expectations of really acting on violence and then do we not have a real chance of it? On this we need a continuous, unique and responsible commitment. I would prefer that we all be accused of jusqu'au-boutism, (to the limit of our possibilities) term which includes a sort of fierceness in pursuing an objective. We need a qualitative leap of the institutions and what is called civil society. An effort that we can and must all make together to make a common sense of the message that violence against women is an unacceptable violation of human rights. New evidence is being added: the new challenges facing us in the Convention. How could the new system of protection of victims to which the Convention is of particular importance be built? How will the equally important measures aimed at affecting forced marriages, increasingly numerous throughout Europe, and not only in Italy, which I consider epiphenomena of unacceptable cultural illiteracy to return? In this sense, it seems to me of great interest - not only from a technical point of view - to the invitation which the Convention makes to the States so that in criminal proceedings brought following acts of violence the reasons based on culture, customs, religion, traditions or so-called honor can never be used as an excuse to justify such acts. We remember Hina's murder and her motives with gruesomeness. Of great interest, I said, this aspect, although not properly valued that will have to push us to carry out deepenings and debates, even if we would never want to reverence ancient disputes on provisions that we have laboriously deleted from our codes (I refer to the so-called crime of honor). A delicate aspect, I said, that we must deal, therefore, with awareness and sense of responsibility, so that those values of which I spoke before (culture, customs, customs and religions) do not expire on principles that can be interpreted in law and consciences, so as not to slip into a cultural and legal relativism, that cultural relativism that unfortunately sees genital mutilation still present. A call for profound changes in cultural attitudes and stereotypes that tolerate, if not even justify, such forms of violence. We must work, therefore, intensely and without savings so that women, especially those of the new generations, eliminate from their imagination the feeling of shame that prevents them to speak, to tell about the violence suffered, the one perpetrated by men who continue to consider it a normal manifestation, the corollary of a tragic impulse of property for an object to their stranger but, even, very close. We know that following up on this international commitment may not be easy, but it is clear that today's ratification is not the end of a commitment and it is not the end of a journey, but the beginning. With this wish, I declare the Group of the People of Freedom to vote in favour. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u80	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Madam President, Minister, Deputy Minister, I would like to start with an episode. Last night in San Giovanni al Natisone, a woman was stabbed by her husband in front of her children aged eight and five. I say this because I believe that the warning made by the rapporteur, Senator Fattorini, of having to escape an easy gender rhetoric, becomes, in the face of the crudeness of the news, a moral imperative. Many colleagues have said in their speeches - and I agree with that - that violence against women and feminicide are structural in nature because it is still structural and the discriminatory element on which they are based; it is the trace and the idea behind the Istanbul Convention. In order to be more brutal, women are beaten, raped, abused, offended, humiliated, mortified as women, because they consider themselves to operate according to a natural dominion on which those bodies, on the basis of a hierarchical relationship, which admits only submission and not freedom; because those women or that woman are property, subject that is possessed; because the autonomy of that woman is subordinate to a superior natural power; because autonomy is in itself insubordination and outrage; because women must, exist to please men (sexually, but not only); because if a man loves a woman he has the right to have her under his own conditions and to bend her with violence to those conditions; because if a woman is tied to a man (husband, lover, boyfriend) the availability of that relationship is only in the hands of that man and the freedom of women to cut off the relationship, affirming an inner freedom and the right to a satisfying sentimental relationship, is arbitrary and outrageous. Because the body of women, as my colleague, Mrs Bonfrisco recalled, is constantly proposed as a place of gaze and male desire, also by the media, also by the educated media of this country, as if it were a public attraction in a carnival; because women must be silenced by traditional banquet; because beating a woman corrects that woman and it is for her good. I could go on forever. Because, for these reasons, that violence is not legal, but it is in some way legitimate, that is, assisted by a cultural consensus; I could say to a large extent by a social consensus. All this is not happening elsewhere. It obviously happens elsewhere in the world, but every sacred day happens here in this country: in this country of whose juridical and democratic civilization we are proud; in this country that has this Constitution, this history, this Parliament. It happens here even more seriously than elsewhere. It happens among our friends, among our acquaintances, among our relatives, among our colleagues. It happens here, not elsewhere. My colleagues mentioned the number of women's killers in this country. I remember very briefly: 127 women were killed in 2011 and, for 7 out of 10 women, there had been previous episodes of violence (an increase of 6.7 percent in a year); in 2012 there were 124 murderers and 47 injuries. According to ISTAT 7 million women - I say 7 million women - between 16 and 70 years of age, of course, in Italy, were victims of physical or sexual violence during their lives: 7 million women! Since the beginning of the 1990s, the number of men's murders on men has decreased: the number of men's murders on women has increased exponentially. We are rightly quoting our legislation. I myself have been co-protagonist, along with many other colleagues, including Senator Mussolini, of the construction in Parliament of the law on sexual violence, in a rare and very happy cross-cutting agreement between women. We are therefore proud to mention our legislation on sexual violence; on trafficking in human beings, and women in particular; on the removal of the abuser from home, on stalking. Of course, we are proud of our regulatory equipment, but obviously, if a woman was stabbed to death last night in front of her children by her husband, we did not do enough; we did not do what had to be done. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S and SCpI Groups]] So, that's not enough. It will be said that this has always been the case. Of course, but every criminal, cultural and social phenomenon affecting women in particular always has two aspects. An aspect of extraordinary archaicity: think of the reduction in slavery, for sexual purposes, of women (we had to re-introduce, modernising, the crime of reduction in slavery, because it seemed to belong to a past so remote that we could not trace it in our legal culture and legislator). But it has, together, a figure of extraordinary modernity, because the killing of a woman today - which refers to archaic rites and primitive cultures - has in itself the aspect of the extraordinary modernity of the reason for which women are killed so frequently, and Italian women: because Italian women, on their freedom, autonomy and self-determination have built in these decades one of the most living, important and vital phenomena of Italian society. It is from the encounter between the primitiveism of cultural possession and backwardness and the modernity of the affirmation of the self of women that arises the gravity, spread and rawness of feminicide in Italy, in the different forms that have been remembered by colleagues. Where is it then that we are wrong, where is it that we are missing? We would probably be wrong and gravely, if we dealt with this issue only from the criminal point of view, which is certainly important, as my colleague, Mrs Alberti Casellati, said: there is also a bill signed by Senator Mussolini. But since we are dealing with a structural problem, we cannot think of solving it by raising the penalties; it does not serve, it does not bite the question, the reason. Mrs Alberti Casellati is right, therefore, when she refers to the five "Ps," to prevention, to information, to stigmatization of behaviour and, of course, to the affirmation of women's freedom. But there is also another essential issue, which is a major political issue. Women's rights are human rights, and I do not think there is any doubt about that now. It follows that their violation is a violation of fundamental rights, and their violation leads to a responsibility of our country in the face of international institutions. Austria has just been sentenced for not being able to prevent the murder of a woman by her husband, and I do not want to quote judgments from the International Court. This means that an appropriate regulatory framework is not enough. Italy must, and indeed must, pay real attention to the application of every rule and every international obligation concerning violence against women, but this must be done to demonstrate the overall quality of Italy's presence on the international scene. We are very attentive to Italy's performance regarding its economic and financial obligations in supranational institutions, but we are too unresponsive to our country's performance when it comes to paying tribute to the obligations we have assumed in the celebration and affirmation of the rights of freedom and human rights. That's the point. I call on the Government and its representatives to say: our debate, the ratification of the Istanbul Convention and the measures that this House is going to take in the coming months are fine, but we need resources, we need organisation, we need policies, we need policies. May it never happen again that Italy does not respond to the 2013 questionnaire on the implementation of policies concerning violence against women, a questionnaire addressed to Italy during the investigation by the United Nations Organization. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and Misto-SEL groups]] A country evaluates itself not only if it respects economic and financial parameters, but if it succeeds in being the place where solemn commitments, to which parliaments also devote so much attention, are verified with the same accuracy, with the same strength and, let me say, with the same pride, because they affirm the democratic quality of our system, the excellence of Italy in the international panorama. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, SCpI and Misto-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u81	Colleagues, the Senate, with the final vote of the bill of ratification of the Istanbul Convention, is about to approve a fundamental act for women. An act that, if we are able to do so, will truly mark a profound cultural and social change in the life of our society. For this reason, in agreement with Minister Idem and Deputy Minister Dassu, I propose to the Assembly to dedicate the vote to all women victims of violence and to remember now, before passing to this vote so important for our parliamentary history, with a minute of recollection all women, girls and girls who have suffered physical or psychological violence in life and death. [[The Assembly stands and observes a minute's silence. Applause]] We shall now proceed to the vote on bill 720, ratifying and implementing the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, held in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. [[Applause from Senator Mussolini.]] I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Ghedini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call for a simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of the bill No 720 as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 277 Senators voting 275 Majority 138 Favourites 274 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. No 720, 243, 641 and 729 and related motions nos. 56 and 64
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u84	MARIN (PdL). Madam President, I would like to say that I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u87	Mr Caleo (PD). Madam President, I would like to make the same request.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u88	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u91	BLUNDO (M5S). I too would like to point out that my vote has not been recorded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u94	FUCKSIA (M5S). I would like to point out that I took part in the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u97	Mr IDEM, Minister for Equal Opportunities, Sport and Youth Policies. I too would like to point out my vote in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. I ask the senators who have had difficulty in expressing their vote to report it to the offices so that the Presidency can take note of it. Thus, draft laws nos. 243, 641 and 729. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. (Senator Santangelo raises his hand and asks to intervene.) I note that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. I put to the vote motion No 56, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators. (Senator Santangelo repeatedly asks for the word.) You can intervene later. The vote is closed. It's approved. Senator Santangelo, would you ask for an electronic vote? Excuse me, but the secretary senators didn't report it. Excuse me. SANTANGELO (M5S). [[Out of microphone]] Madam President, I am asking you to speak on the vote on the motion. You have to give it to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u98	I take note of your request for the next vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u99	[[Senator Santangelo's protests.]] [[Senator Bisinella asks to intervene by raising her hand.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 64. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 64, tabled by Senator Fattorini and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 278 Senators voting 275 Majority 138 Favourites 274 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u101	What are you gonna do about it, Senator Santangelo? SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, on the first vote. I've made extensive gestures... president. Well, we took note of that, but it wasn't reported by Senator Secretary. SANTANGELO (M5S). No. I am speaking on the vote and would ask you to speak politely.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u102	Excuse me, Senator, but I cannot give you the floor because we have overcome this point of the debate. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Your request was recorded later, but was not reported in time by the Secretary Senators that the President makes use of. SANTANGELO (M5S). I am asking you to speak on the vote and you must give me the floor. CARDINALI (PD). Stop! Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What vote? The vote is closed. YOU'RE FROM THE SCPI GROUP. Bravo, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The vote is closed and we have indicated your request, but it has not been recorded by the Secretary Senators. [[Senator Santangelo is protesting.]] Excuse me, Senator, you may speak either on a point of order or on the order of business. You can speak at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u105	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Madam President, I rise on the first vote. I do not wish to argue, but only to point out that, well before my colleague Mr Santangelo, I had raised my hand to ask myself for the vote by electronic means of our motion. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is only a question of clarity, Madam President. For God's sake, it went as it went: having then announced the vote by show of hands, at that moment the hands of the senators stood up at the same time and, while pointing out it, it is evident that the senators secretary did not see me. For the sake of clarity, I was the first to ask for an election vote. I would have liked our motion to be voted on by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u106	Senator Biinella, I take note of your statement. I must tell you that we are sorry. However, since the requests in question are reported to the Presidency by the Secretary Senators, there has been a misunderstanding. The vote was closed and the next vote was taken by electronic means. At this point there is no chance of going back. I would therefore like to turn to the next item on the agenda for today's sitting. [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Giro. Live comments from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). President, you must kindly give me the floor! [[General protests.]] Fazzone (PdL). Call him back, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, excuse me, but we are asking for the floor on specific subjects.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u107	I ask you to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u108	I would like to ask you about what Rule of the Rules of Procedure you are asking for.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u109	SANTANGELO (M5S). This is Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, on the first vote, I raised my hand twice, asking you first to vote by electronic procedure and then to check the vote by show of hands, but you have moved on. Now, then, I would ask you to check the first vote, which was taken by show of hands. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I pray first of all to be silent, otherwise it is difficult to speak and understand each other. Senator Santangelo, to give you an appropriate answer, I would like to understand what vote you are referring to. SANTANGELO (M5S). I am referring to the vote on motion 56.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u110	I insist on the point, very quietly. Given the complexity of the work of the House, the requests have not been notified to the Presidency in good time. This means that on that motion the vote was expressed by show of hands. The request was taken into account in the next vote and the electronic system was used. At this point... SANTANGELO (M5S). You, President, didn't even... [[General protests.]] Excuse me, Senator Santangelo. Since there was obviously no doubt about the outcome... [[Live Senator Airola's comments]] Excuse me, Senator, but I'd like to respond to your group colleague. As I said, since there is no uncertainty as to the outcome of the vote by show of hands, since the motion has been adopted almost unanimously, there is no reasonable argument for repeating the vote, which is repeated only in the event of a dispute. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups]] I would ask you, therefore, to conclude this debate. I need to give you an answer, Senator Santangelo. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , because first you make a request, then you listen and I will listen later to your reply. The annulment of the vote and its repetition can be justified if there is uncertainty as to the outcome of the vote. But in this particular case, because it was practically unanimous, there was no uncertainty as to the outcome and therefore the request for counterproof is absolutely unreasonable. As we have an intense agenda, I would ask you to reply and close the debate and move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u111	Madam President, the reason is simple: the 5 Star Movement did not vote. The counter-test shall be requested immediately after the vote. You did not give the result of the vote and did not ask for the abstentions. We have not been able to vote, and I would like you to remain on the record. I will always ask for the electronic vote, so I ask the Presidency to look at me constantly. [[Comments from PD and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u112	Senator Santangelo, we record your request and so we have been warned since the beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u115	PALMA (PdL). Madam President, I believe that the problem is overcome, since the representative of the 5 Star Movement has changed his demands. However, I would like to say one thing, Madam President, without taking anything away from your speech. The request for a counter-test was known for its lateness, because the counter-test, as she well knows and as required by the Rules of Procedure, requires the identity of the voting body, so much so that the doors are closed. Therefore, to request re-test at a distance of several minutes, when there is no certainty of the identity of the voting body, it seems to me to be a late request. For the rest, if you will allow me, in order to avoid for the future further accidents which probably relate to incorrect reading of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to remind myself - as I used to say in the courtrooms - that, according to the Rules of Procedure, a senator on a personal basis (and not on behalf of the Group) asks for electronic voting; hence the procedure of the request for support and, consequently, voting or not depending on the existence or not of the support. That is to say, from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, that cumulative requests for all votes are not allowed, nor can the request for electronic voting be merely mentioned by a small show of hands. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]] Mussolini (PdL). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u116	Thank you. This is a significant and significant difference, as the senator knows, with respect to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, which perhaps makes this trend on electronic voting complex.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u119	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, Mr Palma, I would like to ask you: if it is not a small show of hands, what should make it clear that there is an expression of a will? PALMA (PdL). Your mouth! MORRA (M5S). We are constantly making this request, since the Rules of Procedure allow us to do so. Among other things, a colleague from another group, Mrs Bisinella, said that she herself had produced a similar product. If this is not Cartesian evidence, one must explain what it is. We consider the behaviour of those who, pretending not to see, do not give minorities and oppositions the opportunity to exercise their right to assert themselves. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of the PdL Group. The Senators of the M5S Group leave the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u122	FALANGA (PdL). Madam President, just to strengthen Senator Palma's position, the vote by electronic vote is arranged either by the President, when he considers that, on the basis of the result, there may be doubts about the number of votes, or at the request of a senator in this House, that he must do so necessarily before the vote is taken. After the vote we are debating, another vote has taken place. So we are going back to discussing and wasting time on an issue that should already have been fired by the Presidency. As we have continued to vote, it seems to me that this debate must be permanently abandoned, so as not to waste any more time in this House. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u123	Senator, I believe that all Members have the right to exercise the powers permitted by the Rules of Procedure. Obviously, there was little or little evidence of the demands, because there was no reason to refuse the request for electronic voting. With regard to the counter-test, I believe that the decisive point is either that it is required in the immediacy of the voting process or that no counter-test can be made, because the electoral body changes. The Presidency has never denied the vote by electronic means when this has been requested. I think that, subject to the need to speed up our work, this attitude will be confirmed in the course of the work, paying more attention to all the requests. Personally, I would add that, if the request for electronic voting were previously made to the Presidency, perhaps this would make it easier for the Secretaries to identify the senator who raises his hand. This did not happen in this vote and the vote was closed. We will ensure that this poor detection of requests does not happen again in the future. I hope, therefore, that this will be enough for Members to be reassured that they do not want to restrict the prerogatives of individual Members or, let alone, of the Groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u126	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Madam President, I do not know what is the way to register to speak: if I have to take off my jacket, I am happy to do so. It is clear, however, that there is a certain distraction from the Presidency in taking note of the speeches made by colleagues. I myself have been trying to make you understand for about 15 minutes that I would like to say my own, as far as my group is concerned, on this subject. Having said that, and therefore calling for greater attention, I would ask my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement Group not to use the request for electronic voting as an impediment to the speed of the Assembly's work. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI. Senator Fazzone's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u127	Excuse me, Senator, but since one of the Group's points to the Rules of Procedure was raised, I did not give you the floor because it seemed to me that your Group had already spoken. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Our Group did not intervene. I asked him to do it on his behalf. PRESIDENT. - The debate is However, I hope that the Presidency will be supported by a signal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u130	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would just like to make a point of checking the regularity of the votes, to point out a case that seems quite incredible to me. We made the first roll-call vote on the transposition of the Istanbul Convention: Minister Idem is present, but he is not voting. It seems strange to me that the Minister does not vote on a motion tabled, discussed and approved by the Senate. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u131	Senator Calderoli, Minister Idem did not intervene in order not to reopen the debate, even out of deference to the Assembly, but asked for his vote to be recorded, so he will be voting. He specifically asked for it. I don't know if the card didn't work, but Minister Idem asked for your vote. So, the Minister's vote is registered. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). And were you in favour, Madam President? It would be helpful to know. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u132	The next item is the debate on draft law No 590. The rapporteur, Senator Compagna, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u133	Madam President, the World Water Assessment Programme is a United Nations programme established thirteen years ago in March 2000 to develop policies that help improve the quality of fresh water resources and identify water crisis situations. This programme aims to coordinate the actions of the United Nations agencies dealing with this management. The draft law at our examination ratified the Memorandum of Understanding on the functioning in Italy, in Perugia, of the Programme Office on Global Water Assessment by UNESCO. The reasons why this Protocol was reached only in 2010 are probably due to difficulties with the regional institution, in the sense that the office of Perugia had perhaps troubled events in the same relations between the Farnesina and the Umbria Region. The fact is that the Protocol, although signed in 2007, was not ratified in our country because of the economic and financial difficulties - I suppose - in the relationship between the national government and the Umbrian Region. The reasons why the Office of the Programme could remain in Perugia allowed one last extension until 31 December 2012. In the meantime, the new negotiations between Italy and UNESCO, which modified the economic content of the 2007 agreement, led to the Memorandum of Understanding of which we discussed in the Commission; we received the favourable opinion of the Budget Commission and we are submitting the text to the House this morning. The Protocol deals primarily with the functioning of the Secretariat, the status of this Secretariat and its administration. It is then defined the contribution that our country undertakes to make to UNESCO, which is reduced by about a third (in fact something more) compared to the past. Article 4 of the Protocol defines the objectives of the Secretariat of Perugia, including the report on the state of world water resources and the support to Member States for assessing the effectiveness of national water policy programmes. There are also rules on joint activities Italy-UNESCO, on the dissemination of research data and studies carried out, on international privileges and immunities related to the office and its staff, on working relationships and on any disputes. In addition to the articles establishing ratification and order of implementation of the Protocol, the draft law brings, in Article 3, the coverage of the resulting charges, equal to about 2.300.000 euros per year. On the basis of these premises, on behalf of the Commission, I hope that the Senate will give the green light to this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u134	Since Senator Fattori, who is not present in the Chamber, is the only person to speak in general debate, I have the right to speak to the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u135	Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Compagna. It is a programme of primary importance of UNESCO and has a significant scientific value. I would like to emphasise in particular that the issue of water management at national and international level will have a particular importance at the Expo in Milan 2015. That is also why I think it is important to maintain the Secretariat in Perugia. Senator Compagna recalled the troubled story of this agreement, which, as he rightly said, is due to financial difficulties and to cover by the Italian Government. However, it has been possible to arrive at the new Protocol we are discussing, which, in my view, presents two very important innovations: on the one hand there is a clear saving (more than 30%), as already mentioned, and, on the other hand, Article 5 of the bill, which is very important, alludes to joint projects between the Italian Government, UNESCO and local authorities. I would like to stress this point in order to propose a more general subject for reflection on how we manage international bodies. In this case it is recognized that the host and financing country (at least in part) an international activity also has the duty and the right to draw from programs of relevant interest to its country. If you want, it is the beginning of a more responsible and active way of making use of the international bodies that we host and finance. For this reason too, therefore, as this is the revision of a Protocol leading to the ownership of a relevant International Programme, I propose to vote in favour of the text of the law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u136	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u137	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the draft law in title, gives, as far as it is within its competence, a non-obstacle opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u138	We shall now proceed to the debate on the G100 agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u139	Madam President, I will present it in a matter of seconds. It is simply a question of the need for careful monitoring of the management of water services, with particular regard to the re-publicisation of water services, to which, as the House is well aware, public opinion has been given great importance over the past few years. It's a simple request for attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u140	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u141	Madam President, as the presenter said, the agenda highlights in particular the issue of the advertising of water services, which is very close to the friends and colleagues of the political component to which Senator De Cristofaro belongs and which has a national political and legislative value. As rapporteur for this draft law, which has an international dimension and a breath for which I am grateful to the Government for the further indications given, I do not feel that I have the opposite opinion. I therefore return to the assessments of the Government and the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u142	The Government's opinion is favourable because the agenda, in my opinion, goes exactly in the direction of committing Italy to a careful monitoring of water services. Since we wanted to have in our country the headquarters of an international body that interests us, such as the Word Water Assessment Program of UNESCO, having us a remarkable cultural heritage and considering that it is a very advanced scientific program, it emphasizes an important element: when in Italy there is an Agency it is necessary to closely monitor its functioning. It is a fair call for careful monitoring of the effectiveness and efficiency of the bodies we host and finance.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u143	Having been accepted by the Government, the G100 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u146	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Madam President, with Senator Angioni we have not been able to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u147	We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u150	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, I was unable to take part in the electronic vote on Article 2 of the draft law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. Barani (GAL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Barani, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 590 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. Barani (GAL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Barani, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 590
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u153	BEEPS (PD). Madam President, in the previous vote I could not vote in favour!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u154	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u157	It's from PD's banks. Delivery! GIANNI (SPI). Delivery? [[Applause]] No. I'm not turning in! [[Laughter.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a few words to anticipate a vote in full favour. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Compagna, for the ratification of a Protocol which is of great importance, as the Deputy Minister Dassu stressed, between the Italian Government and UNESCO. In fact, the Protocol addresses a subject of extraordinary topicality: the theme of water, in all its dimensions, technical-scientific, political and socio-cultural. And it is quite disconcerting - let me say - that this International Programme, which manages and evaluates water resources worldwide and which has been for five years in Italy, has not been considered and put to the attention of the national press. Briefly, I would like to explain the content of the agreement on the most significant aspects. A first aspect is the possibility of affecting through this structure in the policy guidelines, not only for the theme of water resources, but also for that of sustainable development, thus giving the country, in terms of foreign policy and cultural foreign policy, an additional powerful instrument. The second aspect that I would like to stress and which Mr Dassu has punctually referred to concerns the inclusion of Article 5 in the latest version - which I hope we will ratify today - which does not coincidentally include the issue of potential joint activities. I was rector at the University for Foreigners of Perugia in 2007 when the trust fund was signed, which is the beginning of the journey. I assure you that the path has been troubled not only for economic and financial reasons, but also because with UNESCO it has had to come to this important novelty. Therefore, we are not simply a host, but we are a place that will want to interact on the scientific, political and institutional level. Therefore, this is a success of the academic community, the Umbrian Region and the Italian Government: let us try to live it with this spirit also for the future. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u160	Razzi (PdL). Madam President, by announcing the PDL Group's vote in favour, I would ask that the written text of my speech be annexed to today's report. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Zin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u161	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u164	TONINI (PD). Madam President, today we will have adopted two important ratifications - if the vote is also in favour of this ratification - one very important, that of the Istanbul Convention, and only one important, such as the one we are going to vote on. I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that all ratifications are important: there are very important ratifications and others only important, but - I repeat - they are all important. For this reason, I am grateful to my colleague who has asked for a roll-call vote by electronic procedure because there is a tendency, which must be opposed, to use ratifications as a fill-in for the House's programme and to relegate them at times of lack of attention on the part of all of us. It is a temptation which, of course, exists - we know that the work of this House also works this way - but which must be countered as far as possible. Our Constitution provides that only in four cases we must always go through the vote of the Assembly: for changes to the Constitution and electoral laws, for laws of delegation to the Government, for budgetary laws and for ratifications of international treaties. This is an important international treaty, because it concerns the decision to place in our country the seat of a UNESCO International Programme on Water Assessment, which is part of a major programme such as the one that allows access to all people, all women and men on the planet, to a primary and fundamental asset such as water, and allows the use of sustainable water from an environmental point of view. We all understand how fundamental this issue is for the future of humanity and how important it is that Italy has won the privilege - which of course is also a financial burden - to host in its home, in Perugia, the seat of this very important international programme. In this spirit, the Senators of the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of ratification. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u167	I would warn my colleagues that in any case, if we did not complete the explanations of vote by 13:00, we would postpone the vote because it has already been announced that the afternoon sitting will end at 13:00. Please, Senator De Petris, you have the floor. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, very quickly I announce that the Mixed SEL Group will vote in favour of this ratification. Moreover, the choice of Perugia is a matter that has been going on for a long time. The body's objectives are very ambitious and concern one of the most sensitive issues on the planet that is water and, therefore, the right of access to water and the maintenance of the quality of the resource. We have put the question of the possibility of keeping the issue of management under control. To Senator Compagna I would like to remind you that the question of the forms of water management and advertising, considered a common good and, therefore, a universal good and of humanity (as we ourselves believe) are not only about Italy, but also about the whole planet. In the vote on Article 3 we abstained because - and we want to stress this - in some cases (I am referring to the management of the Secretariat of Perugia) the costs are a little high. Having said that, I am voting in favour of the Group. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u170	Barani (GAL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. I would also like to point out that for a distraction between a group and you two groups are absent. This is the real outrage to the Senate and the sovereign people, not the adjective they have addressed to you for not having seen their request.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u173	DAVICO (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would just like to say that although the Group has left the Chamber, we should have spoken in an explanation of vote. For the sake of economics, I will deliver the text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator Davico, I didn't see it coming, otherwise I would obviously have given you the floor. DAVICO (LN-Aut). I would just like to announce that, in line with what my colleagues have said so far, given the importance of having such a body in Italy, I will announce the vote of what remains of the Group will be in favour. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u174	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, previously made by Senator Barani, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the draft law as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u176	Excuse me, Senator, but you should speak later because we are voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u177	MASTRANGELI (Mixed). Madam President, I would like to stress that this is the umpteenth time. Before, Senator Caridi even managed to vote for two other senators. Now the other senator next door has voted for Senator Caridi's side. I'm asking you to check, otherwise you'll give me the delegation to the pianists, and I'll... [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u178	You're right, Senator. I declare the vote closed. The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u180	You have the right to do so. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak to wish you well. Today is the birthday of Aung San Suu Kyi, Nobel Peace Prize winner, who turns 68.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u181	[[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]] I am very pleased that this House wants to give you our best wishes, our affection, our thanks and encouragement for the efforts it has made for many years to bring your people to freedom and for the commitment it is still making to accompany them on this path to democracy. Since the 2011 elections, which were only the third in half a century of Burma's history, this country has changed and there is a new beginning. A finally civil government has been established - at least formally civil, although many former military members are still part of it - which in two years has become the protagonist of unimaginable openings until that moment: political prisoners have been released, censorship in the media has been loosened and important agreements have been made with some ethnic minorities. The European Union and our country are also the protagonists of this change. As evidence of this, the new President Thein Sein, was in Europe and also in Italy last spring. The signs of this change are also the cancellations in April of most of the sanctions against Burma, with the exception of the arms embargo, which still remains, and the restoration from last week of the system of preferential tariffs for the products of that country. However, Burma's path to democracy is still very long. There are important discrimination against ethnic minorities and there is a fundamental problem to be overcome in the constitutional structure of the country that still prevents full and free participation in the presidential elections. Aung San Suu Kyi is in Parliament, but she cannot stand for the next presidential election because a rule of the Constitution prevents Burmese citizens who have foreign relatives from running for presidential elections. I remember Aung's husband is of English descent. This is obviously a norm ad personam that we hope will be exceeded. The reconstituted association "Friends of Burma" (Friends of Burma), which since 2007 has accompanied Aung's path in the Italian Parliament, wants to carry out again its wish and make available its commitment so that this last brand of access to democracy is finally conquered. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u182	The Presidency supports the wishes of Aung San Suu Kyi, a great woman and political leader.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u185	BERTUZZI (PD). Madam President, I would ask the Presidency to ask the answer to question 3 00021, which concerns the crisis situation of the Berco company in Ferrara. I am asking this today because I have learned that the Minister will answer a similar question tomorrow to the House, a question that has been tabled more than a month later than what we have presented here in the Senate. It would therefore be important that, as the Ministry will reply to the House tomorrow, it wants to do the same for this House. [[Applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-44.ana.u186	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13 p.m.
