ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.12 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 21 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u3	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the outcome of the European Council on 14 and 15 March 2013. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Senator Monti.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, I would first of all like to address, on behalf of the Government and my staff, a respectful and warm greeting to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Senate. During my work as a government I have been able on many occasions to appreciate his professional and human qualities and the spirit of dedication to the institutions. These qualities of President Grasso will henceforth benefit the institutions of the Republic at the highest level and will benefit us members of this High House. Let me also address a cordial greeting and a grateful and sincere appreciation to President Schifani, who led this House with authority and commitment at a difficult time in national life. [[Applause from the PDL, PD, SCPI and LAG groups]] I will keep the memory of the authoritative accompaniment that President Schifani made towards my person at the time of the severe, unexpected and sudden impact, with this Senate and with the life of the institutions. I am pleased that the Presidents of the Senate and the House have taken up the willingness of the Government, signalled to them in recent days, and have invited us to report to Parliament, first in this House and later today in the Chamber of Deputies, on the results of the recent European Council on 14 and 15 March and on the prospects they open for our country's economic policy. We have thus, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, taken a further step in the practice that we have established during the outgoing Government, namely a subposition, before each European Council, and a sort of consuntivation after each European Council, of the lines of European policy that the Government, on behalf of the whole country, brings to the crucial table of the European Council. We have done this out of due institutional concern, even though it was not a well-established practice before, and we have also done so - I must confess - because too many times I have been at the table of the European Council in front of colleagues and Heads of Government from other countries, tending to be from the North of Europe, who themselves strengthened their hard negotiating position by saying: I would take this other step towards you, but my national Parliament would not allow me to do so. Well, each of us has a national Parliament and a Constitutional Court, so the fullness of the institutional system must be enforced, not only - I repeat - in relation to the institutions, but also in order to give the country its full negotiating capacity. I hope that even in this legislature this harmonious game will be possible (sometimes without full agreement, well understood, but still constructive) between the Assemblies and the Government that will follow. I would like to extend to all members of the Senate my greetings and best wishes for the start of the new and demanding legislature. I am pleased that the first meeting of the Assembly, which is both merit and importance after the election of the seats, is precisely an opportunity that binds Europe and Italy and opens up a whole range of aspects and opportunities for our country, as well as for Europe. The European Council on 14-15 March dealt with a number of important issues: political priorities for the European Semester; progress on the road to genuine economic and banking union; strategic relations between the European Union and Russia. However, I would like to focus in particular on what I think is the most important political fact, namely the development of the Union's position on the relationship between budgetary discipline and growth. I am well aware that this issue is at the heart of every Italian and, in particular, of every Italian Member of Parliament. At last week's European Council, as has been the case for a long time, two different approaches: on the one hand, the approach of those Member States which see the reduction of public debt and structural reforms for competitiveness as the only way - that is, the condition not only necessary but also sufficient - to allow the exit from the crisis and the recovery of growth; on the other hand, the vision of those who also call for urgent measures to respond to the difficulties of enterprises, to rising unemployment and to the great need for investment. In order to contribute to this debate, on the eve of the European Council, I addressed a letter to Council President Herman Van Rompuy, in which, starting from the Italian experience of the last two years and taking the opportunity of what presumably was my last European Council, I asked for the debate to focus on the instruments to reconcile fiscal consolidation and growth-oriented policies in practice. In particular, I asked for a reflection on how to allow countries in the preventive part of the Stability Pact (which aims to prevent imbalances, not to suppress them) to use fully the existing flexibility margins for actions to support growth and the fight against unemployment. With regard to these premises, I believe that the results of the last European Council show real progress in the long-awaited direction of Italy, i.e. a greater balance between discipline of public finances and attention to growth and employment. The Council conclusions reaffirm in several parts the importance of growth measures, both on the internal market side (it is called the internal market, but it is the large single European market within the Union and not the individual countries), and on the implementation of the measures of the Growth Pact. The Growth Pact is an initiative that did not exist until June 2012, and for which Italy has fought since the beginning of the current outgoing Government. From the Council in May 2012, François Hollande, the president of the French Republic, more willing than his predecessor Nicolas Sarkozy to fight alongside Italy - who at that time had a seniority and a greater experience of European things than his own - in favour of growth. This is how the Growth Pact was born, signed at 27 June 2012. The key element of the last European Council, in my opinion, is that for the first time openings are indicated which, if properly valued by countries like Italy, which have more interest (and it is no coincidence that it was who represented Italy, the Italian Government, to beat and fight for more than a year in view of those openings), could turn into a gap towards a new path of economic policy; not a gap that consists in violating the rules, but a gap that is based on asking for a more mature and more conscious application of the rules. The Council recognised the importance for the quality of public finances of the distinction between current public expenditure and public expenditure on productive investment. The Council calls for the fiscal consolidation of each country to be differentiated and conducive to growth and that - I quote, because every word of this quotation has cost muscles, patience and intellect -:... in full compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact, the possibilities offered by the existing EU budgetary framework to balance the need for productive public investment with budgetary objectives are exploited in the preventive arm of the Pact itself. "Preventive arm" can give the idea of a European structure similar to a prison: please do not consider it to be such, even if participation in these long days and nights of the European Council may sometimes give the impression that this is the case. The preventive arm is to be understood, rather, in the sense of all those devices meticulously designed to prevent divergences from the rules. Well, what does this statement mean? This is not yet a general derogation to allow account to be taken of productive investments outside the Stability and Growth Pact, i.e. the so-called golden rule rule, but the possibility that, when assessing a state's path towards the balance of public finances in the medium term, the impact on the growth of such investments will be taken into account. The formula used by the Council is therefore to indicate that countries which do not have excessive deficits can increase the volume of certain categories of public investment, in particular those linked to the structural funds and the trans-European networks, which are likely to create future growth and thus compensate for the initial investment over time. The basic rules remain unchanged, but this interpretation avoids a mechanistic application that encloses the Member States and creates margins for public investment, just when it is most appropriate to support the economy. This is a real area of manoeuvre, not an ephemeral one, although contained within certain limits and linked to investment expenditure with growth objectives, such as projects co-financed by the Union. If you will excuse me, I would like to say a word about the role of public investment. It is an ancient dispute at European level, so much so that in 1997, when the Stability Pact was created, the German Constitution still carried within itself this golden rule, very wise from an economic point of view, which established that the State cannot be in debt except for public investment, cannot be indebted for consumption. There was an attempt by the Germans at the time of the Maastricht Treaty to have that same rule at European level. For a set of reasons this did not happen; in the meantime the Germans have changed their Constitution and today all the Member States of the European Union, following the fiscal compact and other constraints previously assumed, before our current Government, have now had to incorporate that German rule into their Constitutions. However, the distinction between current public expenditure and investment expenditure, beats and counters, has been able to assert it and makes economic sense, because making a private or public investment today, if it is a real investment, if it is not a trick to offset losses of management of a company, is yes a component of the demand, stimulates the demand, but widens the productive capacity. If it is a broadband investment or an investment in a research centre or an investment in a missing infrastructure, it expands production capacity for the future. So, yes, it is a question, but it also creates an expansion of supply and therefore does not create a risk of inflation in the future, which, as we all know, is greatly feared by the Germans and many in Europe, not unfairly. Well, this room for manoeuvre concerns Italy directly, because on the basis of the Commission's winter forecast, published a month or a month and a half ago, Italy will most likely be out of the excessive deficit procedure in April 2013. We have been in the excessive deficit procedure for a long time; we have tried to speed up the exit from this procedure and, if everything goes as planned, in April 2013 Italy will be decreed to be out of the excessive deficit procedure. It will therefore enter the preventive part of the Stability Pact; it will have no differences to remedy, but it will simply have to avoid having new differences. We are pleased, from this point of view, if this is the case, as we will be able to hand over to the future Government a country that has a lot of problems, even very serious, but at least not this and does not have all those problems related to this. It will therefore be able to use the new flexibility margins for actions to strengthen the economy and support investment. It is an important achievement for which we have worked a long time at diplomatic level. I would like to thank Minister Moavero Milanesi, Minister Grilli, Minister Barca and Minister Passera who, in their various responsibilities, have acted with constancy and determination, each in his own field, for this result to be achieved. At the same time, another significant achievement has been achieved thanks to the evolution of the European Commission's position on Italy's long-standing problem of the commercial debts of public administration to companies: long-standing and for Italy - as we know - particularly important; long-standing, but which has not accumulated during this year and a half of tight force to put us back on a path of financial security, has accumulated over the years. It would have been very nice to be able to solve it just as you had to particularly tighten the belt; nice, but unfortunately not so realistic. In line with the conclusions of the European Council, on Monday 18 March the Commission encouraged Italy to put in place a programme for the settlement of the commercial debt of the public administration within a reasonable time, noting that the impact on public finances of the payments made to settle the arrears, as they do not constitute new public expenditure, will be considered as mitigating factor when assessing the sustainability of Italian public finances. So, here too, the Commission, which is the very important executive arm of the European construction, has been able to act: it used to act as a cap and impediment, now it even acts - and we are very pleased - as an encouragement. However, let us not forget the Commission and those who are part of it, just as we do not forget, that this evolution of its action was possible because, at the higher level, that is, the European Council, with a monotonous and tenacious beating and countering, acting once on Germany, once on Holland, once on Finland, going to visit their respective parliaments, making a series of speeches on their public opinions, we have made the idea that it is not as an irresponsible country to have some extra margin. What can our country do in concrete terms to seize these opportunities that have opened up? The main route is to present in the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, which Italy will have to submit to the Commission by April every year (so this will be, Mr President and Senators, one of Parliament's first issues of work), a reform agenda and the consequent public finance objectives for the current year. The next Document on Economics and Finance (DEF) will therefore be a key event for our country to define in an organic and coherent way a series of measures to strengthen the economy, support stable employment and boost investment by obtaining on this programme the consent of the European Union. However, the problems of the country - and you know it particularly well who like you has traveled the country to obtain an electoral mandate and has seen all the difficulties that the country encounters at this time - do not wait for the Community calendar. Even in the light of the call made by the President of the Republic and the alarm launched by the social partners, I have therefore decided to move forward and immediately put in place an intervention to radically resolve the problem of delays in public administration payments to businesses and to secure the necessary funds for investments co-financed by the Structural Funds. The measures taken so far to ensure the disposal of the arrears of the public administration in indirect form have not achieved the desired results. On the other hand, the application of the European Directive on time of payment, which requires public administrations to pay suppliers within 30 days, will prevent the creation of a new debt which has been set aside, but certainly leaves the problem of the stock of arrears inherited from the past on the table. In the light of the changed European framework, let me stress this, in the light of the changed European framework that we have gradually changed, the Government has therefore considered it necessary and possible now to change gear, moving towards a strategy of direct and no longer indirect liquidation of public administration debts. In this sense, the Council of Ministers approved on 21 March (we are pleased to see on this date the symbol of a spring beginning to move forward) an extraordinary project of intervention involving the mobilisation of EUR 20 billion in the second part of 2013 and of EUR 20 billion in 2014, a total of EUR 40 billion. The measures that the Government intends to take include, in particular, a loosening of the constraints of the Internal Stability Pact, enabling the territorial authorities to use the available administrative surpluses and allowing payments made to local authorities on passive residues corresponding to active residues of municipalities and provinces. Secondly, the establishment of revolving funds to ensure liquidity to local authorities for the payment of other types of debt contracted with suppliers, with a duty to repay within a certain and sustainable period of time. Thirdly, the payment of the debts of the health sector through the granting of cash advances. Fourthly, a derogation from 2013 expenditure for national co-financing of the Community Structural Funds. Fifth: the previous tax refunds paid by the State through the use of treasury stocks. The terms of the intervention envisaged by the Government are described in more detail in the Report transmitted to Parliament pursuant to Law No 196 of 2009. In the light of some statements made in recent days that have led to inaccuracies and confusion, I should like to clarify a few aspects. Firstly, many people are asking the government to pay the debt right away. Now, we too would like to, but the European Commission's position does not mean an unlimited free way to increase the deficit and public debt for payments of commercial debts. As far as the deficit is concerned, Italy must respect the 3% of GDP threshold in 2013, maintaining an adequate safety margin for this purpose. If this threshold is exceeded, in fact, Italy will not come out of the excessive deficit procedure and lose any possible advantage. On the basis of the updated forecasts presented in the report to Parliament, Italy will have a deficit of 2.4% of GDP in 2013. With a margin of security, we estimate that the tax area that can be used for the payment of public administration debts, which impact on the deficit, is about 0.5% of GDP. This space will have to be used to pay the debts corresponding to capital expenditure, therefore not yet accounted for in the deficit, and for the national co-financing of the Structural Funds. It is true, however, that most payments will only have an impact on public debt. What was due in a form of commercial debt, debt remains. However, even in this case the margins are not unlimited. It must be borne in mind that the increased expenditure must be covered by issuing public debt securities, and therefore it must be assessed - one of the many tasks of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance - the impact on the markets of new issues and the cascade effect on net debt and therefore on the deficit. It is also appropriate not to prejudice any margins for other interventions, which I imagine the future Government will want to take into account, as measures to promote stable employment and reduce the tax wedge (especially for young people and women) or interventions to tackle growing poverty. Finally, since last year, late and still modestly, the fight against poverty has become an official objective of the European Union and we cannot remain indifferent to the ISTAT data published the other day, which amount to 4 million Italians under the official level of poverty. Personally, I think that, in an ideological wave of somewhat abstract liberalism, many Western countries - and sometimes even Italy - have proceeded as if the problems of inequalities did not exist and have cleared the tax system by going on visions from Baltic countries of flat taxation and the like. I do not want to go into the matter of problems which will in any case affect other governments, but this Parliament: the fact is that the problems of inequalities can then be very serious and re-explode in the face of a political system that has long neglected them. For this reason, we have assessed that an intervention of about 40 billion, distributed over two years, represents an order of magnitude sufficient to have a real impact on the enterprises, justifiable in the eyes of the markets and realistic, taking into account the absorption capacity of the public administration and its speed in the liquidation of the arrears. Obviously, this is an order of magnitude that can be remodulated, depending on the market response and the success of the transaction. If the appropriate conditions are met, the objective will be to eliminate in two years the pathological part of the debt owed by the public administration, which corresponds to about two thirds of the 71 billion estimated by the Bank of Italy. We did not want to cover beyond the second year, because we considered it incorrect, from the point of view of a government in office for current affairs, to adopt a perspective that would bind future governments over too long a horizon. A government with a broader temporal perspective will obviously aim at the progressive elimination of the stock of arrears debts. I would also like to make it clear - and with this, Mr President, I shall end by apologizing for the long speech - that the Government could not immediately adopt a decree-law. This is a technically important point: the Government could not immediately adopt a decree-law without presenting - as we have done - a Note of variation to the Document of Economy and Finance. Acceleration of payments requires increased public expenditure and, consequently, a change to public finance objectives that can only take place with prior approval of the Chambers. As soon as they have approved - if they feel so - their opinions on the Government's report, the Government - then yes - will present a decree-law which will define the operational terms of the intervention as soon as possible. Meetings with the social partners and public administrations are already planned for the next few days in order to define the methods of payment of arrears. It is obvious - let me say this - that all this makes sense provided that there are no tensions on the financial markets due to new outbreaks of crisis in the euro area. In this respect, I believe that the broad agreement reached in Brussels this night, in the Eurogroup, in which Minister Grilli participated, for a financial assistance programme in Cyprus, can enable the crisis to be resolved and avoid the risk of deterioration. I am indeed closing this speech with two comments that I would like to convey as a modest subject of attention to the Parliament that is born and to the Government that will come. Budgetary discipline pays, as the British would say, and makes it: it imposes painful sacrifices on citizens, it sometimes requires painful and difficult choices, but in the end it makes, not so much because not violating the rules governing public finances we avoid sanctions from the markets or the European institutions themselves, but because we get to a point where we can make new interventions, which require public resources, without jeopardising the sustainability of financial balances. Budgetary discipline is not a winter that freezes every growth policy, it is the solid basis on which to build healthy and lasting growth. I remember that November 17, 2011, when - with an emotion that I let you imagine, and many of you have seen it on my face - I presented myself in this Chamber and, subsequently, in the Chamber to ask for the confidence of Parliament for a government that I defined as a national commitment and that was generously supported - so these things must be possible, if they have happened - by the PdL, the PD and the Third Pole. Then, with all due respect, I said that Italy had for decades rendered a bad service to future generations of Italians, who had in the meantime arrived and could not find a job, and that much of that bad service had been rendered to them in these parliamentary classrooms, which, in a past fortunately now far away, had tried to satisfy all the demands of the present, creating debt to the detriment of future generations. So I wouldn't want to think of budgetary discipline as something that has its seat in the Ministry of Economics and Finance or in Palazzo Chigi. Certainly it can also be destroyed from there, but the role of Parliament is crucial. Secondly, Europe, European policies, can change. They can change: they are not a lead hood. Europe is us, and the Europe to which we have contributed, and the Italian governments over many decades, have given us these rules that protect future generations from the excesses of us politicians of the present. And Europe is not only not a lead hood, but it can evolve, it is evolving in the direction that Italy has long wanted. This change needs a constant maturation, a patient weaving of alliances, a force of proposal that also depends on the credibility that a country earns by its action. And I trust that going on this path will be a little less difficult for those who will happen to us than it was to practice, in the very first weeks of our government's life, skating on a very thin layer of ice (because we had a country that we did not know if it would come to the end of the month from the point of view of the Treasury) and, at the same time, having to start explaining to other European countries that their policies were partly wrong. Well, Italy, with the support of the political forces, with the great sensitivity of the Italians, I believe with the fact that the Italians have understood that they have made it themselves (and not with the imposition of a neocolonial heel, as it is a troika that presents itself in a country to dictate detailed rules because that country went with the hat in hand to ask for financing in Brussels or Washington), Italy has got away alone; but it still has a very difficult path to transform in growth the budgetary discipline and structural reforms undertaken. The International Monetary Fund estimates - as you know - that almost 6% of GDP growth is at hand over the next five years, unless structural reforms introduced with the responsibility of the political forces present in this Parliament are dissipated. And so I hope that those who come will do only better, do even better in building a psychological relationship between Europe and Italy. And I must say that, on my last occasion in Brussels, I also pointed out that if Europe is no longer attentive to the consequences and psychological implications of its decisions in individual countries, then it should not be surprised if they achieve electoral results, always legitimate, as are all the expressive results of popular sovereignty, but that they can create some problems for the continuation of European integration. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u5	I thank President Monti for this in-depth and interesting information.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office of the Council, just now, at the end of his speech, has taken over the - I would say political - weight of Europe in Italy and Italy in Europe. As important as it may sometimes be, Europe in Italy and Italy in Europe are political and not psychological issues, Mr President. From this point of view, however, I agree with your statement that, at the end of days when the European Union took stock of the relationship between budgetary discipline and growth, it can and should be said that budgetary discipline does not dwell in this or that bureaucracy, but in the heart of the highest constitutional interests, of the interests that are not available: I am referring to those of the new generations. That's why I've found the formula "growth" and "budgetary discipline" a lot of times. Moreover, when we in this House - it seems to me just before the summer - had to vote for confidence in the measure of Minister Passera, the Minister himself admitted that there were few growth spaces, but that it was not necessary to say, having to somehow "climb on psychology." Having said that, today we find ourselves - if you wish and we hope so too - in a spring of extraordinary intervention. In the second part of your communications, you referred to the spring of 21 March, namely the possibility of a measure which would reduce the rigidity of the Stability Pact, at least in the territorial democracy bodies. I do not follow this out of respect for the order of business, which I believe President Grasso made a point at the Conference of the Leaders: we will have the opportunity to discuss this measure as and when it will be possible to do so. Incidentally, we consider that a decree-law that had not been accompanied - or, better, preceded - by a note of change in the budget would have been outside our constitutional system. That is why, however, I believe that the debate in Europe on 14 and 15 March is crucial. I would like to share the expression 'Europe' in a letter to the 'Corriere della Sera' of a reader, who has his own name and surname, who gives himself the merit of having foreclosed the majority to another political group. No. When I believed - or believed - that Europe is us, I did not return to this animosity, inevitable in the electoral contests, but from which it is good to look. We, who had passionately supported the Berlusconi Government, with the same passion - she remembered - voted for her trust on 17 November and, many times, even on subsequent occasions. Having said that, however, "Europe is us" is an atmosphere that tends to become very opaque. The political and journalistic debate around 14 and 15 March last focused as if Europe were Germany, as if Germany were Europe and absorbed the same French voleitarianism. Not to mention a certain vulgarity, as well as infidelity of the situation, in making the Italian condition similar to that of southern Europe, and I say this with deep respect for the problems of these countries. Then, from this point of view, we have heard and read reflections from a foundation affiliated to the SPD and another foundation affiliated to the CDU, and all paint future scenarios for the Eurozone in which at one extreme there is the completion of monetary union with a fiscal and political union; at the other extreme there is the break-up - I also want to use an expression of economists - of the Eurozone; in between the idea that the Eurozone can manage improvising from day to day not to split drastically into two. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, two-speed Europe was a risk and a concern of which - Mr Colombo knows much more than we do - was spoken when the Commissioner for Agriculture was Sicco Mansholt, when the countries of Europe were six, at most nine. Today there is a form of German centrality and also a centrality of political attention to the German elections. It was said, with reference to his person, his experience as a government and his political choice, that the markets were for Monti, but then it was noticed that the citizens were not enough. But then what does that mean? That with regard to that European construction, which our generation has found itself, that is, with the technocratic moment at the summit and no longer the political moment, with the ECB having to play as authority and not as a national bank, despite the commitment of a citizen who honours us, President Draghi, we must correct the process of European integration in favour of the political moment. [[Applause from the LAG Group]] Even in order not to take time from other observations, I see that there is no longer and no light has emerged at the end of the tunnel - allow me, it is not a personal matter - of technocratic drift and in favour of a Europe that is once again political. Then I look back, and look at the construction of the United States of America. To her economist will tell something what was the great constitutional debate at the end of the eighteenth century between Jefferson, who said that the debts of the Union could not affect Virginia (not Germany) and Hamilton, who opposed exactly the opposite, and therefore the existence of implicit powers of the national bank. It is the doctrine of constitutionalism: Nicola Matteucci's stuff, colleague Casini, not Nino Andreatta and others, to stay in Bologna. From this point of view, the voice of Italy in Europe seemed rather out of tune. In this Parliament, as far as budgetary discipline is concerned, you have met with a lot of solidarity, a lot of sympathy, a lot of facilities, but we have not heard Italy represented in Europe with the voice of political construction. [[Applause from the LAG, LN-Aut and PdL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u7	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u8	Colleagues Senators, President Monti, the outcome of the European summit in our opinion was nothing more than the difficult definition of a compromise within a framework of strict rules of consolidation, but they have shown to date that they are absolutely ineffective. The recipes of the austerity policy adopted so far have led us to an unprecedented recession, to unsustainable levels of unemployment, which for young people reaches even 50% in many areas of our peninsula; to a massive and worrying use of the Cassa Integrazione; to the systematic destruction of the productive fabric of the small and medium-sized enterprise, on which the Italian economy is based; to the dramatic fall on trade, with the consequent closure of hundreds of commercial exercises every day, due to the drastic reduction in demand; to the asphyxia that hit the crafts because not only of the devastating crisis of the building and the small business, but also of the excess of a tax burden that oppresses independently of the real development of the job; to the increase, certified by the ISTAT data, of the number of families in poverty. Not to mention the sudden and hasty pension reform, which has created dramatic humanly and socially unsustainable situations, of which the exodus are only the tip of the iceberg. The very heavy costs of the rigour and choices of the Government have not fallen equally on the Italian people: the workers and the poorest classes of this country, who have gradually become even more impoverished, have suffered them. Looking at the development of the crisis and the restrictive solutions imposed by Europe on other countries, similar catastrophic results can be seen, such as in Greece, Spain, not to mention the very latest example of Cyprus and the social and economic cracks that are also felt in France, and that support the criticism of the excessive strictness of the stability programmes in terms of credit, tax and budgetary restraint of the States. The German Chancellor's appreciation of the recovery, especially with regard to the deficit/GDP ratio, which in 2012 is supposed to have been less than 3% and which shows the possibility of having more investment space, as provided for in the Stability Pact, is, in our view, totally inadequate to the need for the recovery of our disassembled economy. However, even with regard to this summit, we can only say that the mountain, alas, has given birth to a mouse: you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, come home with permission to pay, by the public administration, the debts incurred to the companies that are drowning and that have been waiting for that little financial oxygen even for many years, but it was a concession that was somehow obliged, like to grab by the hair an economy that is going to sink thus avoiding a certain death and in a short time. However, it is only a momentary palliative and absolutely insufficient even to outline a slight reversal of trend. It is not enough, as some governments have advanced at the summit, not even short-term and short-term measures to help the economy and employment, because these actions would not be able to raise and strengthen the growth prospects with the necessary vigour. Nor has it been possible to fully satisfy the request made by our Government to exclude investment from the calculation of the deficit, which would have made it possible to mention the launch of a European policy that combines growth and consolidation, because this would have led once again (this is the reason given) to amend the Stability Pact in practice; or rather, it would have led to a start on overcoming the cumbersome and slow procedures for approving the ways in which investment is separated from the public deficit, which will be the subject of delicate negotiations with the Commission and between the Member States in the coming months. The game is therefore not over, but the time, endurance and patience of the peoples of Europe is rapidly running out, and it is perhaps this awareness that escapes too many players in European policies. The straitjacket consisting of very rigid rules that oppresses us cannot be lacerated through shortcuts, such as the exit from the euro or the increasingly marked eurosceptic tendencies that are taking hold in the political debate: criticism must rather be directed towards a real change, towards the objective, for example, of overcoming the Fiscal compact, or at least its revision. This treaty imposes on us a time-frame of debt reduction that is too strict and unsustainable for our economy. We are being asked to reduce the share of debt in excess of 60% of GDP by one-twenty per year, and as our debt ratio is 127 per cent, this translates, for us, into a real social strangulation. This commitment has imposed an exasperatingly restrictive policy on us, not allowing a recovery of GDP, but rather cutting it down, which results in expenditure out of control, which is exactly the opposite of what we are trying to pursue, putting at risk our own civil coexistence system and the foundations of our social state, such as the guarantee of essential public services that can no longer withstand such an aggressive challenge. It is also the same rules of the Stability Pact that must be called into question and profoundly modified, starting from the needs of work, the environmental challenge, the balanced growth of all European countries, with a view to greater political and economic integration based on the interests of peoples. It is no longer a question of working with the budget, of implementing a controlled line of flexibility for budgetary policies, which, moreover, creates a great deal of scepticism in Europe, but rather of making innovative choices based on a greater amount of courage and determination. However, this perspective must be based on the full operation of European governments. However, we cannot wait for the German elections to tackle seriously the problems which, if not resolved in a timely manner, risk hitting even more heavily on economies like ours, which do not seem to have an autonomy that will make it survive until next October. The speed with which the consolidation of accounts has so far taken place, in the face of a stasis or exasperating slowness of growth responses, is likely to lead to rejection throughout Europe, as our election has shown. We are faced with a great danger that concerns us all. The debate that has developed in Europe in these times has distracted Keynesian policies, which in other ways, applied by non-European countries, have begun to bear fruit in terms of growth and are allowing these countries to offer a concrete prospect of exit from the crisis. Let us also look outside Europe to look for viable and effective ways of exit, as is beginning to happen in other countries (e.g. the United States), although not strictly compatible with the rules we have given ourselves, because the 27 million unemployed in Europe cannot wait for us to stall in delay the adoption of strong and incisive measures in favour of a quality of development. I remind the forgetful that it is to the Governments presided over by Berlusconi that they are to be charged the greater responsibilities of the increase of the public debt, the zeroing of the primary surplus and the increase of the deficit, voices that on the contrary with the center-left governments had turned out under control and reduced. It is these days then the dramatic denunciation of the Italian Municipalities, which can constitute a dangerous slip towards forms of institutional conflict if one does not quickly come to solve the problems of the survival of the enterprises through, as is happening, the release of the payments and an effective revision of the Internal Stability Pact for the guarantee of the level of services to the citizens. The municipalities must have the freedom to invest, and therefore the possibility of separating these resources from the Internal Stability Pact, thus achieving not only the objective of giving breath to local economies, but also that, Mr President, of reducing current expenditure, which is the most costly part of our public deficit. A possible, desirable and effective use is the investments in the green economy, energy efficiency, the security of our territory, which would, among other things, bring interesting benefits in terms of reducing current expenditure. The launch of a long-term plan of environmental rehabilitation to secure our country would allow small and medium-sized enterprises to carry out works, mobilizing all the European financial levers, in particular the structural funds. What we are proposing is therefore a radical and courageous change of direction towards our European partners and the definition of common rules aimed at a new possibility of development linked to the quality and choice of investment policies that are really useful to our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senators Puppato and Santini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u9	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the past few days the European Council has met to analyse some of the priorities that the European Union has to face again due to the continuing economic crisis in order to plan the most appropriate actions to achieve the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy. The framework within which the discussions took place is the one outlined in the Annual Growth Survey for 2013, which shows that a very fragile economic situation continues. These are uncomfortable data, no doubt, which unfortunately also find confirmations in our country, where the recent legislative measures enacted by the outgoing Government have clearly contributed to the deterioration of our already fragile economy, close between an unprecedented liquidity crisis and an absolutely unsustainable level of taxation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But we are not here to judge past political strategies. Today, rather, we are here to discuss the outcome of this European Council, whose decisions become extremely important for the future of businesses and, more generally, of the economy of our country. The Council reiterates the need for differentiated and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. Not only that, it also refers to targeted and short-term measures to promote growth and support job creation, particularly towards young people: issues and objectives that can be shared, but on which the response of the European institutions has often been inadequate and late, as the North League has repeatedly denounced. Take the liquidity crisis of SMEs and the thousands of companies that fight every day to survive and find themselves unable to access that necessary credit no longer to invest, but to pay at least their suppliers and their employees: survive. I am therefore very happy to learn that now Europe, after years of austerity and rigour (but at the same time granting fresh benefits and resources to a few privileged banks), is also required to review cuts and severity. Why wait so long? For many businesses and economic operators it is already too late. Take Veneto, the land from which I come, where since the beginning of the economic crisis more than fifty entrepreneurs, fathers of the family, have preferred to commit suicide rather than see the sacrifices of a life frustrated or ashamed in the face of the impossibility to pay off their debts. The causes are always the same: difficulties to find resources, banks that do not grant liquidity, collapse of the turnover, public administration that does not pay: already, because in Italy we have, among many, also the sad primacy of being among the European countries with the highest delay of payment of the public administration towards the suppliers. In some cases, as often happens, to compensate for the shortcomings of the central state, local authorities come, as in the case of Lombardy - I remember - where the Regional Council, during its first meeting, approved the decision of simultaneous implementation in Lombardy, Piedmont and Veneto of the Territorial Stability Pact. But the good will and efficiency of some local administrations must inevitably be supported by the higher bodies. Can we, then, in an economic and social situation like this, still wait for the slowness of action that Europe has accustomed us to in recent years? Can our entrepreneurs wait further for Italy to finally simplify the diabolical and intricate bureaucracy that slows them down daily? The answer is no, not anymore, if you do not want to continue updating the war bulletin of suicide-dead entrepreneurs. We therefore welcome the fact that the European Council, despite a thousand difficulties, approves differentiated and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, and welcomes the fact that the European Commission has also expressed its support for the possibility of granting part of the credit to businesses. I have news that the announcement that the Government, after innumerable requests, will take measures, at the moment not better specified, aimed at the placing of liquidity in the economic system. The first step has been taken, but the European Union also asks us to simplify the requirements for businesses, to deburrocraticise procedures, to relaunch growth; we would like to say from what pulpit, for example, in view of the fact that for years the North League has led in solitude a battle on the protection of Made in Italy and against commercial counterfeiting, which, however, clashes with vetoes and the immobilism of the European Union. When we talk about simplifications we remember that the last ones are ascribed to the Lega-PdL Government and are attributable, for example, to fiscal federalism and to the commitment of Minister Calderoli, who realized the first, historical simplification in the jungle of Italian laws. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups]] There is still a need to act and to do so quickly. The time of euroausterity, as imposed only by a few towards some, must have a term, because if it is true that the situation of Italian public finances is lacking (even and especially because of past inefficient policies, especially in certain regions, which have helped to create that mountain called public debt), it is also true that an excessively rigid direction is further pushing the country towards a heavy recession. Cyprus is not so far from Italy. Just two last words to recall what German Chancellor Angela Merkel said at the conclusion of the European Council: It wouldn't be bad if Italy had a Government soon. Nothing else. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u11	He is enlisted to speak Senator Mauro Mario Walter. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u12	Mr President of the Senate, fellow senators, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the institutions, the State, the European Union itself are the fruit of a pact of freedom; a pact of freedom in which citizens surrender part of their sovereignty in exchange for guarantees and services. In this sense, the institutions, the state, the European Union itself are guarantors and not masters of the lives of citizens and businesses. If as guarantors they become masters they cease the experience of governments and start that of regimes. But the worst of the regimes is that of the things said and not done, in which the state systematically lacks the word given and, doing so, creates the premises for a loss of overall credibility of the role and sense of politics. I believe that in the opposite direction - aimed at recovering that fortress already mentioned by the President of the Senate at the opening of the legislature - the results that the Government can show at the conclusion of the work of the most recent European Councils and the consequent agreements with the European Commission, testifying to the fact that politics is putting all the weight we are capable of on the same brick, in the interests of families and businesses. At the last European Council, in fact, the approach you have taken by the government chaired has produced some specific and important results. The first: points (2) and (3) of the conclusions indicate the lines of a significant breakthrough in the European Union's approach to tackling the global economic crisis. On the one hand, it reiterates the importance of implementing all the regulatory innovations adopted during 2011 and 2012 - the so-called six-packs, fiscal compacts and two-packs - which contain the provisions by which Member States ensure each other, under the binding supervision of the institutions of the European Union, in particular with regard to budgetary commitments. On the other hand, a significant opening-up to public investment is consolidated. In a nutshell, flexibility in the interpretation of these rules is finally introduced, flexibility never achieved before and fully in accordance with the Treaty, demonstrating how the new rules are, of course, always subordinate to it and how their so often criticized blind rigor is, on the contrary, always capable of intelligent interpretation. The latter is to say very clearly, at the conclusion of the European Council, that the consolidation of national budgets must be done taking into account the possibilities offered by the existing rules. It is therefore necessary to balance the need for productive public investment with the objectives of budgetary discipline, i.e. balance. Therefore, it is thanks to the commitment that our country, the Government, Parliament, citizens and taxpayers have expressed in recent months that it is now possible to enjoy this flexibility, which is now being made explicit, and finally, at the level of the European Union. In short, the Government has been committed, in order to propitiate this result, in long months of negotiation with the institutions of the European Union, during which it was able to convince the partners, also the other States, on the one hand, demonstrating that the idea of an eligibility of productive public investment was consistent with the growth objectives that the European Union itself gave itself and, on the other hand, thanks to the ability demonstrated by the country to restore stability and security to its finances and accounts. The government has therefore put forward a double credibility: that of being able to govern its economy and its public accounts, and that of having good ideas, useful not only for itself, but also for the European Union and for other states. In the light of the result, public initiatives to stimulate the economy to accelerate the exit from the crisis through growth can therefore be taken, initiatives which for years, due to the precariousness of our public accounts and the strictest European interpretation of the rules, were precluded. Examples of productive public investment that can be accepted at European Union level are the national part-financing of the European Structural Funds and actions to create jobs, especially for the weakest. But there is a second result. The European Council strongly reiterated the need to implement the instruments of the so-called Growth and Jobs Pact as quickly as possible. Signed at the June 2012 European Council, the Pact stems from another long-prepared Italian action, which originated in the letter of the 12 prime ministers on growth and employment of February 2012, which marked another turning point compared to the then traditional rigorist approach of the Franco-German duo. This letter led to a wide-ranging debate, which led the European Union to adopt the Pact, which is now committed to full implementation. Finally, in line with the lines expressed by the European Council in March 2013, and not surprisingly close to the European Council, the Commission has clarified that the payment of the commercial debts of public administrations to undertakings providing works can be made even if it leads to an increase in the deficit and/or public debt. In its assessment of the reasons for these possible increases, the Commission intends to consider this one-off transaction as a public-account transparency initiative, which has been put in place since the implementation of the European Union Directive on time-limits for payments. The payment of this debt, in short, can have the effect of a fundamental injection of money to companies and contribute to growth. However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask the Government no more for courage in this regard, because what has already been done is almost daring, but greater adherence to another concept, that of 'right', mentioned by President Grasso in his inaugural speech. This measure, that is, is called upon to restore legal certainty with respect to those who have operated for public administration. Retouching the amounts and the times mentioned, winning the albeit understandable cautions, is an action that can be used as a spur to the country in a historical circumstance in which the priority is, on the one hand, the budget and, on the other, to nurture confidence and hope. Finally, Mr President of the Senate, with reference to the difficult circumstances involved, not only to the particular stage in the process of European integration, but above all to the task that this House, in particular, is called upon to share today, that is to contribute to ensuring the government of the country, I think it is useful to take up your last quote when you referred to the word "concord." How will we ensure, Mr President, harmony in our country if the sense of responsibility and the will to recognize the other as indispensable for the achievement of the common good do not prevail in these days? How will we ensure harmony if we do not leave behind the logic of war aimed at political annuity, with the aim instead of ensuring lasting peace and development? What unites us is stronger than what divides us, I am sure of it. It is up to us to demonstrate this before the eyes of a country that is dramatically in need of justice, justice, fortitude and concord. These principles that you have evoked not only decorate the vault of the Senate, but above all define the horizon of the destiny of Italy. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u13	Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u14	We would like to thank President Monti, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group, for his report on the European Council on 14 and 15 March. From the combined reading of the official conclusions of the last European Council and the listening to its statements, we note a mixture of half-truths and illusions that clumsily try to mask the disastrous failure of austerity policies. Nobel Prize winner Krugman recently denounced the attempt to cover the horror of the European situation with a blanket of calming words. What Krugman calls "the horrors of austerity" are to anyone evident in the data on unemployment, on the weariness of small and medium-sized enterprises, on the decline in industrial production, on the deepening of an even more serious depression than that begun in '29. It was precisely the Great Depression of the thirties that tragically taught us how austerity in times of crisis does not solve the difficulties, as emphatically announced by the fanatics of rigour, but on the contrary aggravates the economic situation itself causing the explosion of unemployment, especially youth, the insidious investment, the failure of small and medium-sized enterprises. Even the public debt, lying the official forecasts hastily correct from month to month, increases dramatically in all European countries subjected to the shock of austerity, starting from Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy, and then to the so-called solid France. If the crisis has its origins in the private financial sector, its continuation and sharpening is due to wrong policies, particularly procyclical ones, which, in other words, aggravate the economic environment in an already critical context. This situation is well photographed by the Court of Auditors whose President, during a hearing on the Update Note to the DEF in front of the Chamber and Senate's Joint Budget Commissions, on October 2, 2012 declared that the compression of disposable income of households and businesses can in fact generate a fall in consumption and investment, and still, that the corrective manoeuvres continue to tighten, but the real economy can no longer bear its weight. So - and not just us - so far you have pursued deflationary policies; recognize him. How long does the Government and the parties intend to carry forward the idolatry of austerity and its outline of mystifications and predictions punctually denied by an ever more dramatic reality? How long will the Government and the parties continue to ignore the demands for social justice and equality of European citizens, starting with the Spanish indignados, the Portuguese who come to the streets against the troika, the Greeks and the Cypriots who protest against the poverty reduction and the Italians themselves? The last European summit, apparently blind and deaf in the face of reality, continues, despite everything, to combine rigour and growth; a true oxymoron. How else can we interpret the needs expressed to pursue differentiated and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation? It is a contradiction in terms if we do not want to read between the lines of the phrase "differentiated" who knows what openings to policies of less rigour. This, however, is not clear in the final report of the European Council mentioned above. Indeed, you, Mr Monti, in a letter to the President-in-Office of the European Council who mentioned earlier, wrote that fiscal rigour remains the priority and that the flexibility margins already contained in the Stability Pact must be fully exploited, starting with the possibility of decommissioning productive investment from the deficit. This hypothesis is agreed by French President Hollande; apparently Chancellor Merkel also seems to agree with this scenario and in fact considers it right that Italy, with a deficit-GDP ratio that is assumed to have been less than 3% in 2012, could have more room for investment. In fact, nothing has been decided at all; only declarations of intent, insufficient intentions, because what counts is the way of the separation of investment from the public deficit, not the measure of intervention itself, as if one had no awareness of the social drama that millions, not only of Italians, but also of Europeans, are living. On the contrary, to give the complete picture, it is necessary to record that there are already those who put themselves sideways, bringing out the rigorist soul, not without interests for their own country. The Swedish Prime Minister was sceptical about the already very shy line of controlled flexibility for fiscal policies and argued that there are countries in Europe that want to continue living on debt, asking virtuous countries to pay the bill. We don't accept that. Meanwhile, the Italian Government continues, despite everything, to present to the public supposed conquests that are nothing but clumsy touches of maquillage to redo the trick to a shipwreck announced. President Monti, we are asking you here for an act of humility. The time has come to tell the truth to the Italians, to speak clearly, to change course radically. Austerity has failed completely, undisputedly. Italians and European peoples have already paid too high a price to continue to justify sacrifices for a failed ideology and to save the financial sector from its own hungry excesses. The parties (all present here), who were its heralds and hard-working defenders, no longer have any credibility and should humbly apologize and take not one but two steps back. We need an immediate New Deal that puts work, small and medium-sized enterprises, social justice, hope in a future that seems to have been taken away from our young people. Popular suffering calls for a radical change that gives priority not to speculative finance, but to people's lives, to people's needs and, ultimately, to the real economy. The payment of the debts of the public administration, the only expansive measure on which all the political and social partners agree - and which has the blessing of the Head of State - requires a European consensus. On this point, Brussels asks Italy, as stated by the vice-president of the European Commission Antonio Tajani, the amount of the debt, but in the country of accounting hypocrisy and tax evasion, instead of having an analytical accounting suitable to measure the amount of the same, it preferred to hide it in order to make the accounts square fictitiously. Cautious estimates quantify the amount of public administration debt in EUR 140 billion that if they were collected by companies could trigger investments of around 10% of GDP; an enormity that would also benefit the deficit-GDP ratio. We therefore believe that the amount planned to start payments, EUR 40 billion in 2013-2014, is completely inadequate. The scale of the sums and the dramatic situation facing small and medium-sized enterprises, which have already been stifled by the tax authorities, must impose a very urgent resolution on the government. The horrors of austerity have the days counted thanks to the extraordinary mobilization of millions of Italians and Europeans; the parties responsible for the disaster know this, but instead of taking responsibility, they try to wipe out and take time not to admit the colossal mistakes that have led us to this point. In conclusion, we ask that from now on we have the courage to abandon the procyclical policies recessive and define an agenda that points to the real growth of the country, hoping for a collaboration with the other countries that most share our own economic and financial situation, typically of the Mediterranean area. Cases such as Cyprus, which are very topical, must no longer be the case. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u15	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u16	Mr President, Senators and Senators, Government Members, Professor Monti, as you can see, did not convince you very much. This Parliament is representing all its scepticism, which is not Euroscepticism, but it is that of those who know and understand beyond the lines of the statements and statements that too little has been made and that perhaps what little we have won is not the merit of this Government. It is thanks, on the other hand, to a good work you have done, which you have also partly continued, in order to secure our accounts and to be able to highlight the international scenario, those markets that judged and speculated on us, and to the whole system of the European Union that Italy was not Greece, was not Spain and perhaps even today is better than France and other countries. I am convinced, like most of us, that many lies have been told about Italy's accounts in wanting to reappear in an area of financial crisis, even before economic crisis, which did not respond to reality; in wanting to support at all costs, in the interest of someone who was not us, that our banks suffered the same suffering as banks of other European countries, such as Germany, while we knew that it was not so; that our economic system, different and unique in the European context and also in the scenario of international markets, is basically made of a network of companies, widespread and widespread in the national territory, which sometimes has its limits precisely in its size, but whose size lies in the ability to absorb the shocks of crises that do not depend only on us, as we all know and as you teach us. They depend on a scenario and context, which sees in us, in our capacity and in our possible innovation, the most appropriate instrument to respond to these crises, attacking them instead of continuing to defend us. How should we have been able to defend ourselves, in the context of a financial crisis whose shock wave came heavily on the real economy, if not through our real numbers, without taking for granted or assuming the fact that the European Union's numbers were exactly the true ones? Until when will the numbers of the European Union not take into account the specific nature of many European budgets, and certainly our own, because of a stock of debt and a significant public debt, but also of so much private savings and so much public and private assets that must be counted on the same table? Then I leave it to the experts (more than us) to determine how to count the greatness of the Italian real estate, to determine how it affects the overall macroeconomic data the fact that our families are still among those that hold the highest savings, not only in Europe but also in the world, or the fact that our families are holders of their home, of their real estate more than in any other country in the world. Perhaps our debt capacity is greater than that of others, you have just mentioned that, Professor Monti. As a member of the Budget Commission, I would like to remind you that during the Troika's visit to Italy in summer 2011, it listened to the members of that Commission and proposed some urgent measures to it. I remember very well the reform of pensions and its improbability, even if on that occasion and in that place we could and perhaps had to demand longer, less stringent times, as you finally understand today. Today you understand that this tight pact on constraints and austerity has produced what you have described technically well: the "operational arm" through which the European Council allows us to review and redefine our constraints intelligently and sustainably for growth. I hope that this arm will not turn into another death row, as we have seen to do to foolish policies of mere austerity that are the foundation but cannot be the only instrument through which today we respond to the needs of an economy that looks not only at the formation of a new government, more effective than the previous one, but at the task of politics and institutions to give concrete answers. I would like to remind you then that to that same troika we replied that the advance of the balance of the budget, which you wave as a great result today, was instead an act of responsibility of the Berlusconi Government, precisely to secure those accounts and not to offer further assists to those financial markets that wanted to attack Italy because they were interested in taking over its savings and its economy. I would also remind you that the constitutional amendment of Article 81, on the model of the German golden rule, is another reform which was born in this Parliament of the 16th legislature. I would remind you that on 21 March we did not seem like a spring day, but an ice cream in the spring, because, despite the great work carried out by the European Commission and the two Commissioners and Vice-Presidents Olli Rehn and Antonio Tajani in order to encourage the Italian Government and the Italian State in every way so that the procedure could be started immediately to deal with the delays in payments by the public administration, you iced us with a smile and gave birth to a measure which, although following the procedures you mentioned earlier from the constitutional point of view, seems to us to take more and more account of a rigorous approach of German inspiration, rather than of the need for strong intervention by the Italian State and public budgets on the economy, as today would need our situation. Therefore, on the delays in commercial payments to businesses by the public administration, it seemed to us that we saw a mouse coming out, instead of a great act of responsibility and action that could no longer be postponed. The president of Confindustria Squinzi, participating in the hearings for the formation of the government these days, recalled that our economy and our companies are now at the end. This is a particularly challenging figure for a government that is still in office and above all for what will come, which will have to be able to say in Europe that either the ECB is a real bank, as the United States and other countries have it with serious and important economic structures, or, if it has to be only an authority, we of authority already have enough. I want to remind you that in that differentiated budget, which you explained so well, in favour of growth, we no longer believe that the start of large public works yards, which can breathe breath into our real economy, can be postponed. That TAV that we have so much defended then marks the future of our Country [[Applause from the PdL Group]] and we cannot allow anyone to call into question one of the few works that, together with the Brenner gallery, can finally bring Italy back to Europe. Otherwise, we will be forced to deal not only with the austerity that you leave us. A short time ago he reminded us how many muscles and intellect it took and how she used them, especially in those contexts and in those places, to convince Europe of the sacrifices made by the Italians. The Italians know this as well as you, because they have seen your muscles applied, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, especially to the detriment of their pockets and their impoverishment, with a tax pressure that is no longer sustainable and no longer bearable. However, they had nothing in return, so today it is time to give back to Italians and Europeans what has been taken away. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tonini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u18	Mr President of the Senate, fellow senators, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Group of the Party of European Socialists thanks you for your timely and timely information, which is part of a good practice that we have established in the past year, characterized by a constant relationship of information and dialogue between the Government and Parliament on European policies. Let me ask the President of the Senate that this practice should not be lost: if - as we all hope - we have a new government, it will be a commitment of this and of Parliament to maintain and strengthen this practice of confrontation. I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council especially for the great work he has done this year and a half, which he has had precisely in regaining Italy's credibility and authority in Europe, and in particular in the European Council, its most important and - we hope - lasting, not ephemeral fruit. The regained credibility and authority of Italy in Europe are not only the daughters of the personal esteem that President Monti enjoys in Europe, but are the result, first of all, of the reforms put in place by the Government with the indispensable support of Parliament. During the last year of the last parliamentary term there has been in these classrooms - although it would appear that only a part of Parliament supported these policies; someone else did so without his knowledge, of course. [[Applause from the PD and SCP Groups]] - the indispensable support of Parliament and political forces, as well as the support of the social forces and public opinion in general, despite the difficulty, the harshness, even the dissent in some passages. It was thanks to these reforms that Italy has been able to achieve the objective of fiscal balance - and I stress the important adjective "structural," which is because it implies a balance which covers the economic cycle and which takes account of it - and to prepare that reserve of credibility and financial viability that allows today to employ resources for growth and employment. In this context, the openness of the European Council, although cautious - let us say timid - to a strategic reorientation of the priorities of common economic policy, in the sense of promoting growth and support for job creation, particularly towards young people, is a new fact that must not be emphasized beyond measure (in this respect the reasons for caution of so many colleagues are right) but that it would be wrong and counterproductive to underestimate, because it is basically a first success of our work, of Italy's work together with other countries (as President Monti reminded us): let us think of the reorientation that the French elections have produced on the overall direction of Europe. Just as it is a new fact, which we warmly welcomed, the equally cautious opening, confirmed by the joint statement of Commissioners Rehn and Tajani, to the payment of the commercial debts of our public administration to companies, a caution reinforced by voices in the Commission that would exclude Italy from this benefit; But of course we take for good the reassurance that President Monti has given on this point. This is a vital step, on which I believe that the whole of the House is allowed. In fact, there can be no consolidation of our public finance that is based on the ruin of the productive system; if there is no production of income there can be no overcoming of a policy based on the deficit and debt that in the long term has led Italy to the unsustainable situation in which we then found ourselves. Recovery is therefore necessary, but it must be linked and combined with policies of growth and support for the business system. From this point of view, the commitment of the public administration to pay debts to companies is an absolute and fundamental step. It is also proof that Europe can change, because Europe is us: there is no Europe compared to us. We are an important part of Europe and we have measured in recent months the importance, for evil and for good, of Italy's weight in Europe: Italy could have been the element that could have brought down the euro system; it has been and can be the driving force behind a change, including political orientation, at European level. Equally important is the emphasis placed by the European Council on correcting macroeconomic imbalances, a new pact between deficit countries for structural reforms for competitiveness and surplus countries that accentuate expansionary policies. Here is the truth - I am addressing my colleague, Mr Crimi - of Krugman's criticisms, but these criticisms cannot be used to encourage the practice of deficit growth, of debt growth, but rather for a new pact at European level that, on the one hand, helps and supports countries that need to regain the sustainability of growth and, on the other hand, accentuates the expansionary policies for countries in surplus. Today, in fact, the real major imbalance at European level is primarily macroeconomic rather than financial. Just as, for our part, there is the idea that we certainly need to review European governance, because it will finally take us - we hope as soon as possible, but we know that Europe has a long time - within that Council of 27 a strong and legitimized figure directly by the vote of Europeans, which, alongside the always difficult symphony of national interests, introduces the crucial, central and strategic element of European interest. This I believe must be the role of Italy: to relaunch the European project, not to call us out or ask for derogations, but to ask for a positive revival of the strength of the European dream. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this will be possible if Italy soon has a Government: soon - indeed now - we need a Government that does not disperse the results that we have achieved together in the year behind us and that does not drop the still timid, but important opportunities that the partial adjustment of the European route puts before our country. As the President of the Republic has pointed out in recent days, the conditions for a Government of great coalition do not seem to exist in Italy. The proposal of the Democratic Party is that of a political government of change, to start in a constructive and productive way the legislature, establishing an atmosphere of dialogue and collaboration in Parliament with all political forces, on the basis of which to identify a shared path for constitutional, institutional and electoral reforms that makes this legislature useful; then, when the time comes, there will also be the recourse to the ballot boxes, which today risks not being useful, also as an extrema ratio that also our system provides. This is the only proposal to restore credibility to politics - beginning with that of Parliament - in the eyes of the citizens and to restore hope to our country. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senator Pepe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u19	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u20	Senators and senators, the Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting this afternoon, in relation to the urgency of various measures presented by the Government, decided to propose to the Senate, pursuant to Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure, the appointment of a special commission for the examination of draft laws for the conversion of decrees-laws and other urgent measures submitted by the Government. In accordance with the above, the Special Commission will be composed of 27 members in proportional representation on behalf of the Groups. In addition to having substantive powers over individual measures, it will take over the powers of any other Commission in the consultative forum - including with regard to any mandatory opinions - as well as the 1st standing Commission on constitutional requirements and legal requirements of the measures, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure. If there are no comments, so it remains established. The parliamentary groups will appoint their representatives to the Special Commission, as well as to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, by 11 a.m. tomorrow, Tuesday 26 March. The Special Commission shall be convened at 9 a.m. on Wednesday 27 March, in the Chamber of the 5th Permanent Commission, for the election of the President, the Vice Presidents and the Secretaries, as well as for the possible examination of the measures assigned to it. The Commission will first of all be referred to the Government's Report on the prospects for economic growth and the development of public finances, for which it is authorised to convene since its inception.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u21	The Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also approved the timetable for the work of the Assembly until Wednesday 3 April. Tomorrow afternoon, at 5.30 p.m., the Foreign and Defence Ministers will make an information on the story of the two rifles of Marina Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone. Groups will be able to intervene for 10 minutes each. Next week, the Assembly will meet again on Tuesday 2 April, at 3 p.m., for the discussion of the aforementioned Government Report on the prospects for growth of the economy and the development of public finances. Resolutions on the report should be tabled before the end of the general discussion. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government should be tabled within 30 minutes of the opinion. The debate was attended by the allocation of time between the Groups for a total of three hours, including final explanations of vote. The schedule of next week's work also includes, on Wednesday 3 April, the discussion of the Government's communications on the draft legislative decree on the legal system of Rome Capital, as well as - at 4 p.m. on the same day - the secret ballot by electronic procedure on the resignation presented by Senator Giovanna Mangili. Finally, at the request of a number of group leaders, the deadline by which the groups must inform the Presidency of the nominations of their representatives in the standing committees was postponed at 8 p.m. on Thursday 4 April. I would remind you that the Presidency Council is immediately convened in Sala Pannini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u22	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-4.ana.u23	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Tuesday, March 26, at 5.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.02 p.m.
