ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.06).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] The Senate of the Republic today commemorates the figure of Franca Rame, actress and theatrical author of world renown, who was a member of this Assembly in the 15th legislature. Franca Rame was born in Parabiago on July 18, 1929, in a family of ancient theatrical traditions. With the advent of cinema, the Rame family had abandoned the traditional activity of marionettists to give life to a traveling company of theatre of prose, which travelled the regions of northern Italy putting on stage, in a disassembled wooden theatre, texts of local tradition and original works, also characterized by a vein of strong social commitment. In this family context Franca was born, so to speak, directly on the stage: as she loved to tell, her debut took place only eight days of life, interpreting the role of a newborn in the family company. In 1950, together with his sister Pia, he left the family theatre to work in a Milanese prose company, and the following year he moved to the magazine with the company of Franco Parenti. In the summer tour he met a young actor and author of great talent, who collaborated in various roles with the theater company. Its name is Dario Fo: it was the beginning of an artistic and life partnership that upset the way of making theatre in Italy and in the world, overcoming, under the drive of an overwhelming success of the public, deep-rooted distinctions such as those between educated and popular, between sacred and profane, between art and civil engagement. After the wedding and the important cinema and theatrical participations, television and radio, Fo‐Rame was formed, which already with the staging of his first comedies achieved such a success as to be placed at the head of the theatrical collections in Italy. In 1962, on the wave of the great success of the company, RAI entrusted Dario Fo and Franca Rame with the conduction of "Canzonissima", the most important and followed television transmission of the time: in the interpretation of the couple the show turned into a lively and innovative tool of satire and social denunciation, addressing very uncomfortable issues, for a transmission that was born as entertainment, such as accidents at work or the mob phenomenon. Just a satirical intermezzo on the subject of mob oppression produced a wave of reactions in a part of the political world that came to denounce, in Parliament, a claim insulted to the honour of the Sicilian people, supporting the existence of a criminal organization called mafia. It was in fact the time when in many areas, even very authoritative, the existence of the Mafia was still denied, relegating it to aspects of common crime. The scandal of "Canzonissima" cost Franca Rame and Dario Fo a very long absence from Italian television, with accents of real damnatio memoriae, forcing the couple to return to the theaters to reach the now vast and affectionate public. In 1968, also following the political and social upheavals of the time, the company broke up, abandoning the circuit of the Italian Theatre, and Dario Fo and Franca Rame first founded the New Scene Association, of which Franca assumed the direction of one of the three working groups, and then the group of the Municipality, which began to stage satire shows and political counter-information, also and above all outside the traditional places of the theatrical expression. These are years of overwhelming successes, including the well-known "Funny Mystery," resulting from a research on the Apocryphal Gospels. Such a broad notoriety, never separated from the constant will - political in the highest sense of the term - to affect collective consciousness, provoked the obscene reprisal of the most ideologically adverse environments: in March 1973, with an ignobly punitive and demonstration gesture, in a terrorist word, Franca Rame was kidnapped and raped by a group of right-wing extremists. This hateful and heinous crime of neo-fascist origin, with the involvement of anti-democratic apparatuses, occult suggestors, will remain, after many years of unpunished investigations and trials, for the intervention of prescription of the crime. Yet, Franca will be able to show everyone, including his torturers, his strong fiber, in a few years, managing to convey the pain and disgust in an accurate and liberating occasion of denunciation and collective reflection, writing and staging the monologue entitled "The rape". Faced with the bestiality of that rape, the democratic and healthy state has the duty to understand the truth to the full, to repair, not to turn to the other side when faithful servants of the institutions, even at certain risk of marginalization, have the courage to affirm what they have seen and heard. It is our duty to understand still today the interweavings of the massacres and the causes that have so far prevented them from being held accountable. In the following years the success and fame of Franca Rame and Dario Fo in Italy and in the world were definitively consolidated: translations and representations of their plays were now widespread in all continents, generating consensus and enthusiasm beyond any difference in language, culture, political ideology or religious affiliation. In 1997 their successes achieved the highest international recognition, when the Royal Academy of Sweden awarded Dario Fo the Nobel Prize for Literature, not without recalling in the motivation the unbreakable contribution of Franca Rame. The couple reacted in its own way to the prestigious result, giving rise to the charity initiative of the "Nobel" for the disabled. The amount of the prize, together with contributions and donations of various origins, will be made available to the different associations working for disabled people. In 2006, after having supported and accompanied her husband on occasions of direct political commitment, as in the case of his candidacy as Mayor of Milan, Franca Rame decided to commit himself, and in the elections for the 15th legislature accepted the candidacy for the Senate of the Republic on the lists of political formation of Italy of Values. Thus, by mandate of the electoral corps, to be part of our Assembly, he tried to decline his parliamentary experience, through legislative initiatives and interventions in the Assembly and in the parliamentary committees, in the key of civil rigour and social justice, in particular by combating the waste of public money and corruption in the public administration. In that short and tormented political and parliamentary season, however, he also collected many bitterness and disappointments, which expressed in heartfelt speeches in this House and, finally, in early 2008, in a hard letter of resignation from the office of senator, which was never discussed by this House for the early end of the legislature. In recent years, despite the progressive weakening of his physique, Franca Rame has continued in his daily commitment, alongside Dario Fo, in the production and staging of ancient and new fruits of their common artistic genius. It has therefore until the last, until the eve of that dramatic 29 May of this year, continued to embody in its life that accomplished and inseparable integration between acting and civil commitment, in which the magic and wonder of the theatre become, as in the catharsis theorized by Aristotle for the classic tragedy, the tool and the way to become better citizens. In order to do this, however, it is necessary to have men and women on the scene who, like Franca Rame, know nothing but the truth, as recited by the splendid verse of a poem by Stefano Benni dedicated to her. A truth affirmed as a ransom, as overcoming dogma and prejudice. For Franca Rame, the words written by a friend of hers, Delia Gambelli, who, together with Dario Fo, edited one of the most effective translations of Don Giovanni di Molière, can be repeated. As in Molière, even in the life of Franca Rame is affirmed - I quote - a rice that travalica hierarchies and prejudices, puts into play the senses and borders, where the furberias are exhibited and subjected to a final indulgence, where the machines are transparent, that are hidden between the scenes of the stage or between the wandering folds, little probable and however enigmatic, of a text and of a soul. Reading this acute reflection seems to trace the letter with which the senator presented her irrevocable resignation from the Senate of the Republic. Quoting a dear friend of his, Leonardo Sciascia, Franca Rame wrote: I do not, I admit, have the gift of opportunity and prudence but one is as one is. And so he continued: I don't want to abandon politics I want to go back to saying what I think, without casts and constraints, without having to worry about majorities, government and alchemies of power in which I don't recognize myself.(..) I thank first of all the women and men who voted for me, but, just to not disappoint their expectations and betray the mandate received, I would like to return to say what I think, to be irreverent with power as I have always been, without having to bite the language continuously. The ancient conflict between tragedy and comedy translates into the theater and the life of Franca Rame in the struggle between the "so" is if you think "Pirandello" and the "si" is like "Sciascia." Ladies and gentlemen, this was and is Franca Rame: a woman who challenges herself and with her the senses and the boundaries of the world, in order to break hypocrisy in the most resounding way, with the genuineness of a hymn to true life, her life. I am sure, then, in this spirit, to express the emotional, genuinely moved feeling of the whole Assembly in addressing Dario and Jacopo Fo to the feeling of affectionate closeness, of emotional gratitude, of the Senate of the Republic, at the moment when we remember a great woman of theatre, in the highest and noblest sense that these words can express. I therefore call on the House to observe one minute's recollection. (The House observed a minute's silence.) I think applause is the best way to remember her. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u7	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. It is certainly not easy to commemorate anyone or anything, and it is even more difficult when the person met her for having visited the same places and, in my case, the same Commission. You, Mr President, have done this very well and thoroughly. Therefore, briefly, bearing in mind the task which the protocol assigns to me in the time accorded to each Group in this House, I shall say that having known Franca Rame was an opportunity for me to develop a complete, definitive and profound moral conviction: the conviction of how political prejudice can sometimes conceal important parts of the truth. Indeed, colleagues, when I was young, I was what was then said, with a suffered euphemism, a young anti-communist, and for me Franca Rame had represented the suffragetta of a culturally presumptuous and arrogant left, but when I met Franca Rame I understood how for so many years, clouded by political certainties, I had understood nothing (and nothing is also a cautious euphemism). Franca Rame was a great lady: when I met her she was a little gloomy, but she was still beautiful, with an elegance and an unparalleled style. And then, when I was your colleague in the Budget Committee, I was very surprised when, on one of my specific questions, you told me that you asked me to be part of that very complicated Commission. She was very attentive, always present. He also asked and got to be a rapporteur, and he prepared a great deal. He read a written text, it is true, but he had tried to understand everything in that boring and abstruse world, which is made of numbers and a difficult understanding of state accounting laws. I remember with nostalgia how very kind he was to everyone. And I remember it with even more nostalgia because in relations with myself - I dare say - it was almost affectionate. Finally, as I do not remember, and I do so with a little emotion, his way of listening to us colleagues when we intervened in the Commission, that way that only the curiosity of intelligence can stimulate: the curiosity of Franca Rame's intelligence. A great lady: this was Franca Rame. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u8	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u9	Mr President, as you mentioned earlier, Franca Rame was one of the most important figures in contemporary Italian culture. His personal, cultural and political history is linked to the history of the Italian Republic. She came from a family of theatrical actors, and she loved to tell how she grew up in the theater and how she fell asleep in the trunks of her parents' stage dresses: There was a moment of my childhood that often comes back to my mind. I'm playing with some schoolmates on the balcony and I hear my dad talking to Mom: "It's time Franca started acting, it's big now." I was only three years old. His militancy, his attention to the last and the social themes were also reflected in the places where he chose to bring his theatre. A theatre near the people, recited in the street, in the houses of the people, in the circles Arci, in the occupied houses, in the schools, in the factories and in the social centers. Wherever you were needed, Franca Rame would come. His performances were satire and political counter-information, even very fierce. Among these, we cannot fail to mention the accidental death of an anarchist and we do not pay it. "You don't pay" is a feminist writing in which she interpreted a housewife who gave herself to proletarian expropriations in supermarkets: a very topical theme. You have also mentioned this, Mr President. On the evening of March 9, 1973, someone in Milan rejoiced in the Pastrengo division. The cause was the news that Franca Rame, the uncomfortable Franca Rame, had been kidnapped by five men a few hours earlier, tortured and raped. The trial came to judgment only in February 1998, when the crime had fallen into prescription. The reasons for the judgment state that Biagio Pitarresi, prominent exponent of the Milanese right, had confirmed to the investigating judge that the rape of Franca Rame had been ordered by some officers of the Carabinieri of the Pastrengo division and perpetrated by five neo-fascists. Franca Rame found the strength to recount the violence suffered in a monologue, which was presented in 1988 even on television. And it was really a shock to Italy. Since then, never and never, his commitment to violence against women has failed. I met Franca Rame in November 2002 during the opening evening of the Social Forum in Florence. He was there, with Dario Fo, among that incredible multitude of young people and citizens, at a time when the local and national press tended to scare, just over a year after the G8 in Genoa, public opinion and criminalize the protesters of the no global movement. I remember the enthusiasm and irony with which he accepted our sufferings and organizational difficulties dictated by an excess of security: a contribution to dissolve tensions and alarms. He surprised many by accepting the nomination in Parliament on the list of Italy of Values, as has been mentioned. But his contribution, Senator Mario Ferrara also pointed out, was important, on some particular issues, such as the waste of public money and proposing the establishment of a Commission of inquiry into the facts of Genoa. To use her words, she fought for the operation of the bureaucracy, to punish financial crimes, scams, corruption, tax evasion and fake in the budget. Yet, from that institutional experience she was disappointed: I do not intend to go on in this very heavy and useless situation, and on 16 January 2008 - as has been mentioned - he presented the letter of resignation, but with very clear reasons. I would like to add his words to those already mentioned by the President: 'My consideration' - he said bitterly - 'unfortunately it is not positive, indeed it is totally negative. After all the battles we did, we had achieved some results on gender equality. But now everything seems to be lost. Women are the most penalized in every field and everything we have achieved with tears and blood has disappeared, dissolved in the laws of this Italy. But, consistent with his history, his character, his strength, Franca Rame did not want and could not give up the struggle and hope: At my age, I can say that I'm trying to end things in my life left unfinished, like a biography I'm writing. But what I would like to continue to say to women, even after my death, is never to lose self-respect, to have dignity. Always. Looking back on my life, I never let myself be disrespected. We elderly women have a mission: to continue to dialogue with young people so as not to leave them alone. There is still hope. And I believe that with our commitment in this Parliament we will try to move forward with your ideas. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u12	GIANNI (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Franca Rame, as you mentioned in this solemn Chamber on 12 April 2006, so a few years ago, in a perhaps less explicitly dramatic period in terms of the country's economic and institutional crisis, but undoubtedly historically contiguous. In his prestigious role as senator of the Republic he resisted a couple of years, although he chose him with the same radical and progressive challenge that had always characterized his human, professional and artistic profile. Ut politics life, I would say in reminding you; with a distinction, however, that we cannot fail to observe by carefully rereading that letter that you, President, quoted and partly read, which delivered to your predecessor President Franco Marini to resign your irrevocable resignation. I read a few very brief steps that completes what you have reminded us. I can say serenely that I have, from the beginning of my mandate to today, committed with seriousness and certainly without saving myself, but I can't help but declare that these 19 months spent in the Senate have been the hardest and hardest of my life. The life of the senator is not at all comfortable and easy for those who want to participate seriously and actively in the work of this House. In addition to the House there are the Commissions. I followed four: childhood, depleted uranium, public works and communications and RAI surveillance, and sometimes there are three at the same time and you have to be present to each one because you need the quorum or because you vote. It's organized madness. And all this activism produces a paradoxical effect: slowness. I do not intend to abandon politics, I intend to return to it to say everything I think without casts, constraints, without having to worry about majorities, government and alchemies of power in which I do not recognize myself. Here: to return to politics Franca Rame decided and chose to leave the world of politics. It was you who had lived on the scene and in the daily life of politics! Colleagues, to remind you, especially we who, as you have freely chosen (it comes to me to say - do not want it - civically, in my case) to enter the world of politics to contribute to the change and improvement of our country, I believe that we must find the strength to remain here, in this House, in our Commissions, in our organized daily madness, saying what we think without constraints, without failings and without conditioning. This is perhaps the best way, at least here, to celebrate its memory and to join in the mourning of his son Jacopo and his husband Dario. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u15	CASALETTO (M5S). Thank you, President. Franca Rame actress, writer and author, but not only: Franca Rame in the first place woman, woman of subtle intelligence and fine sensibility, wonderful woman. I walk... I don't know how long. Without realizing it, I'm standing in front of the police station. Leaning on the wall of the building in front, I'm looking at it for a long time. I'm thinking about what I'd have to deal with if I came in now... I can hear their questions. I see their faces... their half smiles... I think and I think about it... then I decide... I go home... I go home... I report them tomorrow. (Buio) These words are extracted from the account of her horror and horror of many other women who, like her, have suffered and still suffer today. "I will denounce them tomorrow" is a dignified and silent scream in search of justice that he knows will not find. It is the legacy that, through the sacrifice of the meticulous and public story of its destruction, Franca leaves us making us witnesses not only of his, but of the ruin that other women have suffered, suffer and suffer in our country. Franca Rame actress. It was the fall of 1968 when Franca and her beloved lifelong companion, Dario, decided to put their work at the disposal of an audience that is usually ignored by the official theatre: workers, housewives, students, peasants. The theatre of Franca and Dario is brought to small towns, to the outskirts, to the factories, to the palaces of the sport and made usable to those sections of population that represented the people of the unequal. Here, ladies and gentlemen, those unequal people whose people are increasingly numerous and to whom we have a moral obligation, as well as an institutional obligation, to give answers: answers to their expectations of a free, just, fair life, in which culture and morality, as in the example of Franca and Dario, are elements of improvement, not individual, but above all social. Franca Rame and passion: passion for art, for society, for politics and for love of life. Sweet companion of Darius, a great man, at the side of a great woman; Darius of the Funny Mystery, the clown who with a lion's courage, under a seemingly naive smile, tells the powerful (the unequal on the contrary) what cannot be said and is said to leave testimony, hoping that one day justice will arrive. That is, ladies and gentlemen, those unequal on the contrary, which, too often and too often, our policy, in an interweaving of commissions and conflicts of interest, has courted and protected. Franca Rame senator. It was April 2007 and Franca Rame, in the wake of a life spent in the battles of politics made by the movements, is given to Parliament with a mandate: to bring a voice that, coming from civil society, was heard and perhaps, in some cases, transposed by the parliamentary institutions. A voice that has repeatedly been expressed in this House with tenacity, courage and generosity. It is here that Franca leaves us another legacy, a precious legacy for us parliamentarians, a legacy that with his resignation contains the message of a policy (political really) in which there is no room for compromise, beyond the content, a policy in which the sincere, clear and democratic confrontation finds a synthesis for the good of the citizens and is not at the service of the mere requirements of approximate floating of some powerful in turn. It is Franca Rame who, on 11 October 2007, in a parliamentary question to the Ministers of Health, Economic Development and Environment of the then Government notes that the vice president of the Ionian AIL would have diagnosed the syndrome of the hardened smoker in children of ten years resident in Taranto, in the Tamburi district, near which stands the steel center Ilva. This phenomenon is already in a serious health situation, where cancer deaths are more than doubled from 1971 to 1996 onwards. This question remained - and so far has remained - without any answer, when the drama of Taranto emerged in its dramatic but unfortunately known virulence. In July 2006, Franca presented a draft law calling for civil servants convicted in criminal proceedings to be dismissed immediately. It is the project "ten laws to change Italy." Despite the accession of many senators and MPs, this initiative did not arouse any interest in the leadership of the centre-left group. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So this is Franca's warning. In a policy of balance and mediation, never or almost never done for the good of the people we represent, but done in the name of a so-called stability consisting of form rather than substance, this is unfortunately the fate that could happen to many of us parliamentarians: disappear into the void of a caste that has produced disasters and poverty, overwhelmed by the sense of useless confrontation between deaf people. But we believe deeply in the possibility of change. I would therefore like to conclude with a recommendation, which is also to be given to Franca. Let's start here: let's reduce the waste of the Italian State, let's make bureaucracy work, really punish all financial crimes, scams, corruption, tax evasion and fake in the budget. Franca, thank you! [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mastrangelo, Longo Fausto Guilherme and Puppato. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u18	BONFRISCO (PdL). Colleagues and colleagues, it is not easy to remember an extraordinary woman, with a complex personality like Franca Rame (but we were lucky enough to know her closely in this House), in whose life the love of theatre and culture has long interwoven with political and civil passion. Born in the province of Milan in 1929, she was an art daughter in that world of entertainment where she would meet Dario Fo to create a union that will lead them to mark some important pages of the history of our country, starting from the creation in 1958 of the company Dario Fo-Franca Rame. And it is always with his Dario that Franca discovers the political commitment that will lead her to enter the feminist movement in the seventies. She writes and recites her own texts, especially those focused on denouncing the role of women, suffocated in self-determination, the one still to be conquered for Italian women. And it is on the path of the battles for women's freedom and the affirmation of their growing role in society that meets the many women, not only Italian, who would have given rise to the only true happy revolution of the short and violent century, ideologies and violence, that sexual revolution that has never generated death, but that has defended life: the life of women and their freedom of choice, the life of women against sexual violence, the life of women against the practices of illegal abortion, the life of women who are the protagonists of their process of affirmation. The initial trace of all this is found in the left that in his Milan lives the most fascinating and dramatic pages of the intense confrontation between socialist reformism, communist improvementism, left-wing workers and contestation of the Sixty-eight, which then finds around the corner of the years of lead one of his mortal traps. It is that "night of the Republic" that Sergio Zavoli told so well, when RAI was a public service, to all Italians, bringing out also the human dramas united by the search for a political solution to the injustices, the crisis and the search for a new way of understanding social justice in the process of transformation and modernization of Italian industrial society. It is precisely in those years, terrible for everyone, but for her perhaps even more, that in 1973 lives the tragic experience of the abduction and the mad violence that comes upon her by five neo-fascists because of her strong political commitment in the Milanese squares. Don't get confused, Senator Petraglia, no Pastrengo division: only five neo-fascists and criminals. From that experience comes the admirable denunciation contained in the work "The rape" which exposes the fragility of the human soul, in the old and new feminicides. Then, in 2006, she was elected senator in Piedmont for Italy of Values and she sits in this Chamber with another Milanese from her own artistic environment, also in front of her political commitment. It is Ombretta Colli who, together with his Giorgio Gaber, animates the cultural debate of those years. In this House, they have been faced with different groups from different militants, but united by a knowledge that has been cultivated since girls. If Ombretta Colli were senator even in this legislature she would have the commemoration of Franca Rame and she would better tell me about her elegance, not only in her clothes, and her lightness, even in the face of the most dramatic trials of life. But Franca Rame leaves the Senate, which used to call the fridge of feelings, only two years later. "A painful but convinced choice," he said, "that caused me a lot of anxiety and even physical malaise (...). After all, I felt temporarily "loaned" to institutional politics, while my whole life I intended to spend it in the cultural and social battles, in the politics of movements, as a citizen and as a committed woman. Many of his battles in this House: on the terrible problems of death at work, the overcrowding of prisons, the refinancing of Italian peace missions abroad, all united by his tireless commitment to defend civil rights. Everyone. I remember the great sadness when he said: In almost two years in the Senate I have tabled several questions. All were left unanswered. Maybe from that working-class paradise where I'm sure you are today, dear Franca, we can still hear your crooks. But, moreover, this also belongs to those procedures that often frustrate political commitment and sensitivity, the one that lies in the fantasy of the unhappy and in the difficult exercise of trying to give answers to those who are not right and will never have it, to those who do not have government and will never have it, to those who do not have judgment. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and SCpI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u21	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank you, both for the words and for the biography you have rebuilt, which enable me to deal with the life of Franca Rame - the Franca - as we say in Milan - from another point of view: the life of those who have had a custom with you and with you has organised very specific initiatives. Franca was certainly a woman who was friends with women. She was a great actress. She was a great intellectual. She was a writer. Unfortunately, as always happens in the great associations, very often it was in the background, but we know well that behind a great man there is a great woman. In this case behind a great man like Dario Fo, there was, alongside, a great woman. And perhaps, if I think of Dario's words in the emotional and incredible farewell to the "Little Theatre" on the day of his funeral, he was not at his side, but even before him. I find that this sign of humility on the part of a great man like Dario Fo is one of the highest tributes that can be given to a woman in turn extraordinary interpreter of that twentieth century, of that second part of the twentieth century, that has changed not only legislation, but also the custom, life, morals, the way of interpreting the relationship between men and women in our country and in the world. Franca had a very high civil commitment and there was no need to call her, because she made her incredible calls. I remember, for example, that we hadn't been a Communist Party for a long time, but she called and said, "Hello, PC?" For her, in fact, we were the communists and we would always remain the communists, because her profound idea was linked to those ideals and she did not care that we changed our name; the important thing was that we agreed on the things that were to be done and that were so important. I think, for example, of the dramatic moment of Tiananmen and of the total availability of Franca and Dario for an improvised concert, a demonstration or some initiative that could shout, being a signal in a city that was afraid became numb. In this sense the theater becomes life: not only that theater that we see at the theatre, but that theater that lives daily and is so well represented every time it manifests itself, every time you are together, every time you live a little mystically the magic of fighting for a common ideal. This was Franca. I'd like to bring back one more wonderful memory. For the usual problems of information in our country, Franca had an incredible idea; she phoned me and said: They're attacking the par condicio. You know what we're gonna do? Let's have a funeral of the par-conditioned. We did this event in the streets of Milan, with a painted coffin, with clowns, the boys who brought this coffin and Dario and Franca showed an incredible generosity, working even at night with us to get to manifest, say and be together. The last memory is that of the time spent together in the Rai Supervisory Commission, although it was very little. His authority, also in this case, was born from the great experience on the meaning of communication: that communication that expresses universal values, which starts from the concrete life of people, not from an abstract ideality, not from an intellectualistic exercise. Well, there are few people like Franca; certainly there were also other times, times when politics and institutions were talking with movements in other ways, they were not humiliated, but they were looking together for the way to make it, aware that the interest was the improvement of everyone's life. Franca was a very radical woman, but she was an extraordinarily respectful woman of the institutions, to the point that her resignation was a painful act, anything but light and very, but very meditated. I therefore ask my colleagues, when we talk about such high figures, not to pull the jacket, not to interpret them, because their example and their warning remain for all of us so that, perhaps, politics and institutions become better. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u22	The next item is the vote on the election of two components of the Administrative Justice Presidency Council, two components of the Court of Auditors Presidency Council and two components of the Tax Justice Presidency Council. We proceed to the vote for the election of two members of the Board of President of Administrative Justice, pursuant to Article 7 (1) (d) of Law No 186 of 27 April 1982. This vote will take place by secret ballot, pursuant to Rule 25 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the following list drawn up on the basis of the nominations received by the Groups: - Professor attorney Maria Elisa D'Amico - Professor attorney Giovanni Guzzetta I remember that, according to the aforementioned rule of law, the two candidates will be proclaimed elected if the list will obtain an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Assembly, i.e. 161 votes. The senators in favour of the proposed list will vote yes; the opposing senators will vote no; the senators who wish to abstain will act accordingly. I declare the vote open by secret ballot, by electronic procedure. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of voting by secret ballot, by electronic procedure, for the election of two members of the Board of President of Administrative Justice: [[Senators present 259 Senators voting 258 Majority 161 Favorable 202 Contrari 26 Absent 30]] The Senate approves. I declare elected professor attorney Maria Elisa D'Amico and professor attorney Giovanni Guzzetta, to whom I address, on behalf of the Assembly, the best wishes for good work. [[Applause.]] We proceed to the vote for the election of two members of the Board of President of the Court of Auditors, pursuant to Article 7 (1) (d) of Law No 186 of 27 April 1982 and Article 18 (3) of Law No 205 of 21 July 2000. This vote will take place by secret ballot, pursuant to Rule 25 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the following list drawn up on the basis of the nominations received by the Groups: - Professor lawyer Paola Balducci - Professor lawyer Enrico La Loggia I remember that according to the aforementioned law the two candidates will be proclaimed elected if the list will obtain an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Assembly, i.e. 161 votes. The senators in favour of the proposed list will vote yes; the opposing senators will vote no; the senators who wish to abstain will act accordingly. I declare open the vote by secret ballot by electronic procedure. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the secret ballot, by electronic procedure, for the election of two members of the Council of President of the Court of Auditors: [[Senators present 273 Senators voting 272 Majority 161 Favourites 192 Contrars 58 Absent 22]] The Senate approves. I declare elected Professor Paola Balducci and Professor Enrico La Loggia, to whom I address, on behalf of the Assembly, my best wishes for good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u25	NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I asked for the floor just to know whether the vote we are holding is a regular one, because I fear that the competent Commission has not examined the CVs presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u26	Senator Nencini, the curricula are available to everyone and, as you know, there is no competent Commission. Curriculum's at everyone's disposal. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] We proceed to the vote for the election of two members of the Board of President of the Tax Justice, pursuant to Article 17 (2) of Legislative Decree No 545 of 31 December 1992 and subsequent amendments. This vote will take place by secret ballot, pursuant to Rule 25 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the following list drawn up on the basis of the nominations received by the Groups: - Professor attorney Fausto Alberghina - Lawyer Mario Cavallaro I remember that, according to the aforementioned rule of law, the two candidates will be declared elected if the list put to the vote will obtain an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Assembly, i.e. 161 votes. The senators in favour of the proposed list will vote yes; the opposing senators will vote no; the senators who wish to abstain will act accordingly. I declare the vote open by secret ballot, by electronic procedure. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of voting by secret ballot, by electronic procedure, for the appointment of two members of the Board of President of Tax Justice: [[Senators present 273 Senators voting 272 Majority 161 Favorable 181 Contrars 74 Absent 17]] The Senate approves. I declare elected professor attorney Fausto Alberghina and lawyer Mario Cavallaro, to whom I address, on behalf of the Assembly, my best wishes for good work. [[Applause.]] (17.03 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u29	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to be convened reasonably quickly, which, pursuant to Rule 18 of the Rules of Procedure, is a power for the President of the Senate, in order to assess, in accordance with Document II, No 16, the proposed amendment of Rules 41, 113, 117 and 118 of the Rules of Procedure, with regard to the abolition of voting by secret ballot. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u30	Senator Morra, I will take note of this and pass on the request to the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u31	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1014.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today can mean a lot to the whole of Italy. Not by chance, the decree-law in question is called cultural value, almost an invitation, an awareness for a country that does not look enough at its historical, artistic and intellectual heritage as a pivot and possible model of development. In all this culture and beauty have a fundamental role: a principle that the Democratic Party has very clear and that Minister Bray... (Brussio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Ferrara. Please, if there is a bit of tranquility and silence we can continue. Please, Senator. Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). ...and that Minister Bray has well declined, defining culture as a common good of extraordinary richness and complexity, which in all its various manifestations must be protected and strengthened. Just today we remembered Franca Rame. It is significant that we have done so in this context, in this debate. I said it then, when unfortunately disappeared, in a speech of mine: the best way to honor it is to enhance the theatre in our country. Well, because culture... (Brussio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, I really ask with courtesy: I would ask everyone to lower their voices. Please, Senator Ferrara. Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Well, in order for culture to become a value, even an economic one, one must first make culture by putting the arts into a system with training. The relationship between educational institutions and the cultural dimension, which this decree takes up in a number of points, is welcome. A link, that between school and culture, that finds symmetry with the measures provided for in the decree approved by the Council of Ministers, the education restarts, aimed at facilitating educational projects in museums and sites of historical, cultural and archaeological interest and in cultural foundations. A sensibility that must be further extended to the concert seasons of opera theatre, prose, dance. Access to do and to understand artistic languages concerns the sphere of the rights of the Italian citizen, an educated citizen, that is, who has an appropriate and coherent formative path. If we talk about music, for example, it is necessary to support the project "Born for music" up to the music in all school orders, including the joints of the upper secondary school. An educated citizen guarantees the demand for cultural use and fully returns the sense of support for the artistic production of young people and associationism, which is contained in this decree. The urgent provisions for the restoration of lyrical and symphonic foundations and the revival of the national musical system of excellence respond to the need to preserve and strengthen the pillars of our tradition and identity and with these, of course, a world of professions and professionals, and therefore a specific occupation in the sector. A systematic training in music, dance and theatre, which today in Italy we do not have a system, would open a useful perspective, because it would guarantee an acculturated audience and a critical and conscious use of artistic production. In this sense, we must read the amendments tabled, in which the Government is invited to further facilitate those cultural associations and those realities of the third sector that in recent years have overcome the shortcomings of our training system in participation in the calls provided for in Article 6, preferring those that already boast collaborations with schools, protecting the same from subcontracting operations that could present elements of opacity, increasing the reductions provided for from 10 to 30%, widening the exemptions of the payments of copyright at least for representations with audiences less than 200 presences and introducing, for the field of artistic training, the de-taxation for families who have minor pupils who attend schools. The G100 agenda, which we hope will be welcomed by the Government, is specifically aimed at training and in the device reads: "It engages the Government: to take the necessary initiatives to promote the educational activities in the musical and artistic field carried out by public institutions and associations in the third sector, in order to allow everyone the possibility to acquire an adequate musical education; to evaluate the opportunity to provide for the deduction of the expenses incurred for the registration and the frequency of courses for the artistic training of amateur music, theatre and choreutica, in order to support families in spending... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u33	Finish the sentence, please, Senator Ferrara.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u34	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). ...for carrying out activities so important for individual training. By adopting these amendments and accepting the G100 agenda, the measures that this important decree we are discussing today already contains are strengthened. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u36	Madam President, I would like to take the opportunity of the few minutes I have available to explain to the House and to all citizens the unusual procedure that this decree-law has had in the Commission. We're starting last Wednesday. During the Bureau we defined all the timing of the meetings in the contact person to carry out the decree-law culture. Immediately the Group of the People of Freedom, at the mouth of its Parent Company, made the request for referral back even to Monday (i.e. the day before yesterday), to examine further amending proposals made by other colleagues. We fought against this request for postponement and managed to ensure that the sitting of the Commission on Thursday was preserved. On Thursday, however, the hours available for the examination of the decree-law were further reduced following a further request for postponement, again made by the People of Liberty, due to fanciful problems of deferment of cover of the measure. Therefore, the sitting of the Commission was postponed until Tuesday the following week at 10.30 a.m. Well, on Monday afternoon, around 6 p.m., after some of us had already planned to come to Rome in order to be able to participate in the Commission's work, we received a message that the one-hour sitting would be postponed at 11.30 a.m. The following morning, at 11.10 a.m., and then twenty minutes before the meeting of the Commission was convened, there was the news of a further postponement to 1 p.m. Personally, I went to the Chamber where the Commission's work took place, and I saw that a majority meeting was taking place behind closed doors, in which the opposition commissioners were unable to attend. As a result, we have been waiting for the meeting to end so that the work of the Commission can begin. I'll make a point. We of the 5 Star Movement immediately, and therefore since last Wednesday, have denounced the possibility that the reasons for the postponement put forward by the People of Freedom Group were totally pretentious and that the real reason was linked to the judicial, and consequently political, events of that condemned definitively that is at the head of the People of Freedom party. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u37	Senator Bocchino, I would urge you to stick to the subject on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u38	BOCCHINO (M5S). This possibility was immediately denied by the Parent Company, but there are many things that do not add up. First of all, why has the reason for the postponement been changed? Why, above all, did a majority meeting take place behind closed doors to discuss issues of law enforcement? Why not put everything on the Commission's table and discuss it with the other parliamentary groups, if that really was the reason for the postponement? Why? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then I want to link myself to a phrase uttered by an exponent of that same party: with culture you do not eat. Well, no, I say something else: culture is not a joke! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I address the senators of that political group and also those of the Democratic Party. If any of you think of tying the parliamentary process of the provision to Senator Berlusconi's judicial affairs... [[Protests from the PdL Group]] I am now also addressing my colleagues in the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u39	Senator Bocchino, I call you to stick to the reason you spoke.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u40	BOCCHINO (M5S). Madam President, this is a matter of substance and do not interrupt me, please. [[Protests from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u41	I'm just sticking to the rules.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u42	Please finish your speech. BOCCHINO (M5S). If anyone thinks they can endorse the fact that another person can interrupt the parliamentary process and the activities of the democratic institutions of our country, well I say that the 5 Star Movement is there and will fight to expose this attempt and to prevent it from happening! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PdL Group]] I'll finish. Soon the school decree will arrive in this House. Well, it will not simply be a question of completing the Grand Pompeii Project or hiring 500 young people or restoring lyrical-symphonic foundations, between quotes and quotes. It will affect the lives of 8 million students...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u43	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u44	BOCCHINO (M5S). ...and one million workers in the knowledge sector. It is good that no one dares to turn against measures that try to respond to the cry of pain that rises from that section. We're gonna stop this! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. Because of his absence, he's supposed to have given it up.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u47	Madam President, the Group for the Autonomies warmly welcomes this decree-law because it really has an innovative scope. It is a measure that puts culture at the centre, after years in which this sector has been sacrificed and has not known that attention it deserved as a strategic sector for the development and growth of our country. It is out of the question and it is recognized all over the world that Italy has an extraordinary artistic and cultural heritage, but it has been underestimated for too long and is often also in decline. This clearly represents a profound penalty also for economic sectors such as tourism. In particular, we have appreciated all the measures included in the decree that intervene on those areas in serious economic difficulty and that belong to the heritage of our country, but also to the universal heritage. I am not only talking about Pompeii, but also about the theatres and lyrical-symphonic foundations, which risk having to give up under the weight of costs. Many innovations have been introduced within the Decree-Law under consideration. In particular, I would like to mention the measures that consider culture as an extraordinary area capable of generating new job opportunities, especially for young people, by supporting the creativity and initiatives of young people. Attention is also paid to the role that private individuals can play, as individuals able to provide resources in exchange for sponsorships or forms of partnerships. Before I was elected senator I held the position of city council member to the culture of the Autonomous Province of Trento and I have always said that the only way to overcome the difficulties of the artistic, cultural and architectural sector is to intervene with tax deductions and therefore with tax breaks. I take note of the fact that a great deal has been done in this direction in this measure; there are many simplifications and a whole series of problems have been resolved which have weighed heavily on this procedure. I am thinking, for example, of the Colosseum, where private individuals had to engage in a real battle to finance restoration work before they could make their donation. Fortunately, this decree-law greatly reduces procedures and difficulties, although there are still too many constraints. For this reason, we have tabled a number of amendments calling for the existing limits to be reduced. Indeed, if a private individual decides to support cultural activities or the restoration of important works or monuments, it is right that the deduction can be unlimited. I think we should all reflect on this. We have also welcomed the fact that we look at new forms of art, at young people, at the possibility of allocating abandoned places and economic resources to them, reducing the tax burden on their artistic production. Culture gives added value to our communities, to social cohesion, to economic production and to the quality of products; therefore, we must stimulate creativity in every way and ensure that especially young people, who are the easiest to have ideas (they are the ones that are most easily found in this creative spirit), can express themselves. I also want to highlight the great value of cultural production for tourism enhancement, especially in our country. In fact, tourism that is based only on events risks ending with the very organization of the event; instead, tourism that values culture, tradition, typicality and the way of being of a territory, but also its diversity becomes interesting, qualifying and will never lose its attractiveness. Still, we are happy because within Decree-Law No. 91 of 2013 there is a strong attention to artistic production, so not only or not so much for cultural events that host artists, maybe coming from outside our country, but for interventions aimed at promoting artistic production, to ensure that there is also the birth of real cultural enterprises that can also give important employment opportunities to young people. In addition to the amendments that remove the limits for tax deductions, I also wanted to table an amendment to restore the possibility of providing compensation for administrators of cultural institutions who are financed by the Single Fund for Performing Arts. There are all over Italy foundations and institutions (there is also a 0 in the Province of Trento) which provide very large budgets, which give directors great responsibility, and not to foresee any kind of compensation seems really absurd: there are bodies much less complex than these, which involve less responsibility or commitment to work, yet their administrators are adequately paid. It is true that those who engage in a cultural organization do so above all out of passion, but it is true that these often involve important responsibilities and that they can also lead to serious risks. Alongside this, it is clear that the world of culture needs further action. I am thinking of the entire reform of the Italian Society of Authors and Publishers (SIAE), which has become absolutely urgent (in this regard, I am also working on a measure that can include a real global reform). I also think of the support of cultural volunteering: often artistic initiatives and cultural enhancement are entrusted to volunteering and we need to support it more, also in this case with simplification, especially because cultural volunteering creates sociality and value in a community. I repeat, therefore, that we very much welcome the decree-law in question, also as an element of great novelty and courage compared to an Italian cultural policy that has so far been really turned down. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u48	Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u49	Madam President, Minister, of course I would also like to express my satisfaction at this reversal of the trend which, beyond the limits of the decree-law in question, is nevertheless very important. Since I only have four minutes, I'd like to spend it on a personal testimony. I have just returned from a mission in Kazakhstan, a difficult land for very complicated issues related to human rights, oil and wealth, and one of the things that struck me the most is the real hunger (more than passion) for our culture: in 500 meters there is a theatre with more than 1,500 places, different auditoriums, art exhibitions, and the continuous question is addressed to Italy. In a few days will be inaugurated a great opera theatre that has as artistic director an Italian, Graziani, and the musicians are of the Teatro Alla Scala. The whole area was teeming with Italians; we were there for human rights, oil and wealth, but this is the crazy thing that hit everyone. In addition, Verdi's work "Attila" will be played at the inauguration. The second minute I always dedicate it to a personal affair of mine, that is to say to the fact that on my return, scholarship is running out in Europe and in part of North America: I have been "persecuted" by my post-doctoral students, very good guys, who asked for scholarships, and I am here with six letters of presentation of excellent elements. As a third and final point, although there would be so much to say, I would like to make a small request to Mr Bray if he listens to me. In Article 2, Chapter I, of the decree-law under consideration, introducing urgent measures for the continuation of the activities of inventorying and digitization of the Italian cultural heritage and for the implementation of the project "500 young people for culture," I wondered - taking advantage of the great fortune to have it here - why the southern regions lack only Basilicata, which I have seen to be very rich of young people who apply precisely to this type of activity, like almost all children, but there in particular because the relationship between tourism, culture and promotion of young people, fly of the economy, is fundamental. You know that because you took care of Puglia. But why are we dealing with Puglia and Campania and, in the middle, nothing about Basilicata, despite Matera being nominated together with Ravenna (and I don't know which one is the best, because my heart beats for both) as the capital of European culture? [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u50	Senator Di Biagio is enrolled to speak, who during his speech will also explain the agendas of the day G103 and G104. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u51	Madam President, I do not regret the fact that the Minister does not listen to me, because I will ask you, if necessary, to leave my speech to the record. The agendas presented by me want to place themselves in a perspective of completion and improvement compared to what already stated by the decree in question: a measure that intervenes in support of sites of particular national interest, such as the Pompeiana area and settled in Campania, on which international attention has already been evident. This measure, however, leaves out of the meshes of the interventions a whole section of the Italian archaeological and artistic heritage. As many of you know, in Italy there are numerous sites and archaeological parks at risk of degradation and abandonment, the subject of multiple complaints from local authorities, and for which it would be desirable a plan of extraordinary interventions to be implemented in the short and medium term: and to this I urge the Government. The Italian archaeological heritage is a world-wide historical and artistic reference. Its renewed and timely valorization could not only safeguard the historical and cultural heritage of our country, but also fuel an important economic relapse. An emblematic case is that of the archaeological park of the Banditaccia di Cerveteri, an imposing necropolis of Etruscan age, the largest and most important of the country, recognized as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, which has recently risked losing its patronage because of the conditions in which the structures are located. It is an episode on which the Government is worth reflecting, and seriously, Minister. It is also appropriate to point out that, during the discussion in the Environment Commission, the favourable opinion of the Commission has highlighted as the only condition that a renewed commitment by the Government to implement the commitment of a census of sites at risk of degradation and the definition of a plan of extraordinary interventions to be implemented by the end of 2014. This is because, to a general and overall problem, it seems necessary to respond with a plan of interventions that is equally comprehensive, without being limited to a few well-known realities. Therefore, Minister, a real attention and commitment from the Government in this direction, which the Civic Choice Group calls for, is considered imperative. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u52	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u53	Madam President, I wanted to speak on Article 1, which deals with the problems of Pompeii. Pompeii, basically, is an oil well. We talk about the oil wells of Basilicata and we think that these can solve some problems, but we have a real oil well, which is Pompeii. There is not only Pompeii, but Pompeii is quite a well of oil, and we could use the white gold (and not the black gold) to make it work. For example, in London, at the British Museum, an exhibition entitled "Life and death" was held:Pompei and Herculaneum, which in three months had 300,000 visitors. The Pompeii Museum has 300,000 visitors in one year. I repeat, they had 300,000 visitors in three months. The Pompeii Museum is fantastic, it's all inside, while in the exhibition at the British Museum there aren't the same things. We should ask ourselves why we use our resources so badly. We can't even think that everything depends on the fact that the Pompeii Museum is a little distant from the excavations. On the other hand Pompeii is visited by 2 million people a year and so we have to organize these things well. I come from Campania, and near Pompei there is another important site, that of Paestum, whose museum, very nice, is really attached to the excavations and works well. Paestum is therefore a very important site that we should value well. So, we have to think about working well, these things, because at the British Museum they also sold Gragnano's pasta: they invented a bit of everything to attract visitors. What about us? The pasta of Gragnano we produce in Campania, is a famous pasta. Let's go into detail. Pompeii is allocated a lot of funds from the "Grande progetto" (Grande Progetto), an instrument used by the Campania Region to spend the money of the European Community: it is 105 million euros. The "Great Project" has the considerable advantage that money, the 2006-2013 POR funds, can be spent by December 2015. So it's a tool we use to take a little more time to spend that money: but how do we decide to spend it? We set up a project director-general, a papal figure, with full powers, who can basically do what he wants. Maybe he won't, but he can do it: he's the famous man with the white paper, remembering a movie by Totò. This person also assumes the contracting station function. When everything is concentrated in the hands of a single person who also deals with the contract, we can assume that it can do well, but it could also hurt. On the other hand, a protocol was implemented in Campania, which stems from an agreement between the prefecture and the Provveditorato, in order to ensure that the phenomena of the mafia and the camorra are countered in the contracting station. Well, our Group has tabled an amendment to remove only the procurement phase from the Director-General. I want to see how many people in here will have the courage not to vote on such an amendment, because we are talking about total respect for legality. To subtract only the phase of contract does not mean to lengthen the times, but simply to say that the contract does it another, the Provveditorato to the public works: therefore, it is not a third, but an expert figure. The time does not extend, because they are established by Legislative Decree no. 163 of 2006. We have also tabled another interesting amendment which, if I recall correctly, has been rejected in the Commission, with which we explain that this money must be spent primarily to do ordinary and extraordinary maintenance work on the Pompeii site. In fact, the heading of Article 1 refers to urban regeneration, environmental redevelopment and upgrading of the areas concerned. I mean, in here, we do "Anything," and then what do we do? Do we want to enhance the area and not reconstruct Pompeii? But it will also be appropriate to think that the first thing to do is to secure Pompeii, reminding us also of the collapse that has occurred! Do we want to give priority to these interventions? How then do we reject such an amendment in the Commission? I want to see how courageously this House will succeed in rejecting an order of priority! I look forward to the amendments. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u54	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u55	Madam President, this decree of value for culture is a long-awaited measure, and it is certainly worthwhile that the Government has tried to give answers to a crucial sector for the development of our country. There are so many good intentions, so many good things, but as many shadows, I have to say frankly; what is missing is above all an overall project and what strikes the most is the return in style to the state and welfare approach - as in the case of the lyric foundations - to the detriment of a necessary path of liberal reforms. But the biggest flaw perhaps lies in finding resources with the usual system of the increase of the excises, imposed by the usual Ministry of the economy, recently renamed with a good neologism: • Ministry of Gasoline • Ministry of Gasoline • Ministry of Gasoline • The vice is always the same: to invent new taxes to the detriment of a coherent development of the sector that rewards those who have managed their budgets wisely, instead of throwing millions and millions of euros to lose money. It took more courage, in short, and the People of Liberty, through its amendments, strongly pushed towards the main road of a fiscalization that favors the intervention of the private in the culture. However, we do not give up on those who, for convenience, find no better for financial cover than fishing in the pockets of citizens, instead of cutting unproductive state spending. In fact, the decree provides that excise duties will once again finance the permanent tax credit for 50 million euros to the cinema sector, a measure which, moreover, goes in the right direction and which has been loudly demanded by companies operating in the sector, which otherwise would have enormous difficulties in planning further investments for the future. The new jumps will then affect smoking products, lubricating oils and alcohol. But it is philosophy that inspires this provision to be the most questionable thing. The finding of resources takes place in the usual way: it is always pervicaciously going to affect consumption, they take away funds, even if provisionally (and we hope that the Government in this regard will keep the word, in the sense of a rapid return to that chapter of expenditure), to the measure paid-businesses, a measure that many small and medium-sized companies have been waiting for years and whose expectations cannot be disappointed once again. Once we define our stakes on the financial aspects, I also want to clarify the terms of a useless controversy, raised by the mayor of Florence on the hypothesis that the PdL wanted to boycott the Great Uffizi in retaliation towards some unfortunate statements of Renzi himself. As a Tuscan, I can only be happy with the attention this Government shows towards Florence, although I must point out that the mayor, a former scraper and now aspiring asphalter, acts as if he were Lorenzo the Magnificent, even if under his administration the Florentine musical May has reached its failure. But, leaving aside the Renzi controversy, on the New Uffizi there is a point on which we will watch with great attention: the report annexed to the decree says in fact that "Since the available funding did not allow to contract the entire project, unitarily conceived, the same was subsequently divided into two lots. At present, a total of EUR 50,600,000 remains to be financed in order to complete the project. And he goes on to say: In order not to frustrate the possibility of continuing with the custody of the ATI, it is essential that there be a constant flow of adequate funding...................................................................................................... Well, here we put an unavoidable question of transparency, because it would be at least abnormal to entrust tout court to those who won only the first contract all the execution of the works. This is a problem that we are putting forward and on which we are waiting for precise answers. As far as Florence is concerned, we have tabled an agenda to guarantee the autonomy of the Opificio delle Pietre Grazie and to increase its staff. We are talking - for those who did not know - about one of the few world excellences that we have left. Since the project intended to definitively annex the Opificio to the Florentine Museum Polo was fortunately withdrawn, it seems obvious and natural that the Opificio is put in a position to function best, with a transfer of personnel without any additional burden for the state coffers. I begin to conclude by pointing out that this decree value culture represents an act due to such an important sector also as a flywheel of economic development, but it has been conceived with a view too statist and with an approach that lacks organicity. The call, for example, of 500 young people who will be employed as trainees to catalog cultural heritage risks becoming yet another factory of illusions. Just as the Grande Progetto Pompei will not have to trace old experiences of carriages that have proved useless or insufficient to give concrete answers to a cultural heritage of inestimable value. There is one last point to note: companies operating in Italy in the cultural and creative field are faced with enormous problems in accessing credit, due to the inability of banks to properly assess intangible assets (ideas, such as in the United States). In short, there would be a need for a cultural revolution that in this decree is not there, even if approving it we will try to see the glass half full, promising to work so that politics gives a response to the level, able at last to take full advantage of the potential of a cultural and artistic heritage unique in the world. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Russo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, André Malraux said: "Culture is not inherited, it is conquered." This awareness should also be clear to those who - like us Italians of the 21st century - have the undeniable fortune to live in a territory that hosts the most extraordinary collection of works of art in the world, an exterminated open-air museum that no event can ever replicate in the history of humanity. Beyond the punctual interventions, which we also find numerous and which respond to some of the most serious emergencies, we believe then that the main value of the recent action of the Government and of the measure that we examine today is precisely to have put the debate on the culture of our country exactly in the wake of this awareness. In fact, we must remember that Italy, in its best moments, when it played an important role in the international community, was not only a container of works of art, of unequaled cultural heritage, but it represented for many a fascinating, envious and often clumsily imitated cultural experience. Even today, despite the difficulties we all know, our country retains in the world an incomparable ability to evoke beauty, style, art of living well, synthesis between sites of great landscape and environmental interest and balanced intervention of man. It is the brand Italy, whose diffusion and attractiveness no advertising campaign, not even the most expensive, could today replicate in global public opinion in favor of any other territory in the world. It must then be acknowledged that the Letta Government and this Parliament have started again, despite the difficulties of the budget, to invest in culture, just as it has been done meritoriously also for the school, but the results will only come if the cultural policies of the coming years will be a piece of the renewed pride of a country capable of telling and enhancing not only the culture it possesses, but above all the one it expresses, the one that is able to produce and export, even with the economic repercussions that have been repeatedly recalled by today's debate. For this reason I believe we should all make the commitment to work so that the important resources allocated by this measure to an archaeological complex symbol like Pompeii, to the usability of a product mainly made in Italy such as opera music and in favor of the detaxation of cinema and music are not interpreted as the umpteenth financing that simply - allow me the expression - puts us a piece. Let us instead make an investment on which to watch over, from which to expect that, with the increased profitability and efficiency, new instruments will be offered to the country for a cultural rebirth able to renew the country's protagonism in the global cultural market, including the tourism one. Precisely for this reason we greet as a sign of hope - still small, but encouraging - what puts young people at the center of some of the most important choices of this decree. We need the new generations to update our cultural offering, to bring it into line with what is new in the world. We want young people to be more and more protagonists as organizers, users, ambassadors of those Italian cultural policies, because only they can teach us how much it is necessary to open up to the world, unprovincialize some approaches merely conservative of our cultural actions, how it is possible to understand and get in tune with the new languages of knowledge and creativity, use in an intensive way technological innovation, not only to sell better the Italian product, but also to ensure, through a careful use of the new media, more democratic access to cultural enjoyment. I only mention, concluding, this issue, because we know that mass society, as Hannah Arendt said, often does not want culture but recreation: in Italy, net of the population under the age of six, those who in a year do not read even a book are more than 31 million, that is 54 percent of the population of potential readers, more than half of the Italians. Investing more and better in culture then means reconciling this half of the country with a fuller right of citizenship, of which even the politics and life of the institutions can only benefit. In fact, as a British politician reminded us... president. Senator Russo, please finish. Mr Russo (PD). ...The culture makes a people easy to drive but difficult to drag; easy to govern, but impossible to reduce to slavery. That is also the meaning of our work. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Giannini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u58	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u59	Minister, I have good reason to think that the measure we are debating today is the first in a series, albeit a short one, for a number of reasons that I put to your attention, but above all for the lightness, which I understand in some respects, of your financial coverage. That is to say, it suggests that the great Italian issues, which were caught in the debate before me and were also present in the excellent work done by the President of the Commission, Senator Marcucci, when they find a point of discussion within the Government, are not always concretely shared. I say the first of a series, though short, because the five issues that the measure deals with in some respects are positively mentioned, but we cannot consider them to be concluded. The first concerns the protection of excellence. When we talk about excellence in Italy there is a plurality of considerations that we can make. In the case I emphasize five: restoration, libraries, archaeological sites, artistic periods and places of creativity, which here begin to remember with targeted funding; below, the relationship between the State, the Regions and local authorities; then patronage and public investment; a particular attention to the new generations; finally, the theme of the deburocratization of activities related to cultural activities. In the meantime, the measure begins by putting a firm point on the Pompeii question: I agree. I would add that the other Italian archaeological sites of universal value, next to Pompeii, are at least three, only to indicate the most significant ones: I speak of the plain of Sibari, of Luni, between Tuscany and Liguria and the complex issue of nuraghi in Sardinia. In the matter of excellence, as you have seen, today in the Commission many representatives of the various Groups shared a unique behavior when they discussed Opificio delle pietrai e di Biblioteca nazionale. I stress this point, because we will have to start thinking, when we talk about staff to be engaged, about public places and institutions where there is an exceptionality of people who often work without knowing how to finish the working day and places instead, like the two that I now mentioned them, but are not the only ones, in which the shortage of staff risks putting in trouble both those who take advantage of that good and the prestige of Italy in Europe and in the world. In addition to solutions that we can define as traditional, the possibility of moving people working in the public from place A to place B to make it possible to overcome some questions of an occupational nature will therefore be taken into account. The second issue concerns a more synergistic commitment between local authorities, regions and the State. We do not spend little on advertising and communication: we often spend badly, because every local authority carries out its communicative, advertising and promotional activities. Often the right hand doesn't know what the left hand does; often we logo public resources without being aware of the good we do in promoting that service or that public good. Perhaps it would be better to recall us in this case - even if I know Title V of Part II of the Constitution, with delegated powers - more to the spirit that inspires Article 9 of the Constitutional Charter and, perhaps, also to reconsider in many cases the restoration of a Ministry that only deals with tourism. The third and most complex issue concerns financing and the relationship between public investment and private patronage. Italy has also exhausted its public spending for the next few years, this measure is one of the many demonstrations: or we can better cross private patronage and, therefore, private intervention, with public presence or risk having no resources to cope with the immense Italian heritage. However, I am not just talking about immense heritage, but also, Minister, about the investments that we should envisage and activate in order to open a new artistic and cultural season. Just yesterday they were assigned those who are called the "Nobels of art." The Italian winners are two: one is a great eighty-year-old artist, Michelangelo Pistoletto, and, in the young artists section, the praemium was assigned to the Accademia di Santa Cecilia in Rome: a tradition therefore linked to the beginning of the twentieth century and to the Italian art of the mid-Twentieth century, and above all the sign that something matures and changes. When I talk about funding, I am talking about increasing the private sector's ability to intervene, to remove or lower the bureaucratic snares that provide for a series of supercontrols for the private sector that wants to intervene. I am talking about highlighting a new voice, which is that of the private sector, which we could include in our initiatives, and an initiative aimed at the regions. When we talk to the Regions, we also talk to them about the possibility that they have with regional laws, in reference to Title V of Part II of the Constitutional Charter, of providing tax relief for individuals and businesses who want to invest in culture. If we give greater freedom in this direction, we are also able to open a new season. You have done this in two ways: speaking of 500 new recruitments of young people - and I trust that this makes sense - but above all by introducing a criterion for the first time applied in Italy, when with a law of 1949, the so-called 2 percent law, in fact unenforced by 99 percent of the administrations, we have opened a window on young artists and on the spaces that can be given to contemporary art within cities, which still has no title or adjective to spend. We have therefore proposed that part of the revenue from the so-called 2% law should be included in support of this initiative. I know her sensitivity and advice to work with the Regions and with the big cities to contract the suburbs to young artists: better a badly painted periphery than a grey periphery, as our Italian suburbs are grey. [[Applause from Senator Morra.]] I don't know if he agrees, and I know it's a much discussed point among art historians, but I would point out that in the last great Italian national artistic season, beyond some points of excellence of the Pavolinian twenty years, it is difficult for me to discover, in the fifty years of recent history, a common thread, except extraordinary creative excellences, to which Italian art can collectively, as an investment strategy, recall. It makes sense, therefore, to think of a measure of this nature only if we foresee a second one connected to the opening of a new season of Italian art, so that the cases of Pistoletto and the Academy of Santa Cecilia are not only children of experiences that we can define extraordinary, but are instead linked to an experience that is financed by public investments and protected also by private patronage [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Verducci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u60	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u61	Madam President, despite our opposition, we acknowledge Mr Bray's offer, after years of cultural obscurantism, the opportunity for Parliament to talk about culture: even if in a specific and sectoral way, at least for a few hours we abandon other issues and talk about culture and cultural heritage. The Ministry of Cultural Heritage has been subjected to heavy cuts over the last ten years on the basis of short-sighted and misguided political choices dictated by the axiom already mentioned in this House that culture is not eaten. A 31 percent cut in constant and progressive resources, with the exception of an increase in bureaucratic spending in the higher spheres. Italy is experiencing a time when the economic and social emergency makes itself felt particularly strong and then it would be necessary to choose the sectors on which to aim for our economic recovery. It is a matter of making strong choices, of setting in motion virtuous mechanisms capable of having a positive return for culture in the coming years. However, the Government has not embarked on the path of a framework law to relaunch enthusiasm in a sector mortified by cuts and the deep sense of abandonment; it has also preferred this time the usual way of decree-law, certainly safer, easier to armor politically, intervening on emerging situations, and to give emphasis has been called cultural value. Another missed opportunity for a government that is impoverishing its citizens with the evil policies of rigour only to have the consent of Europe, but that completely renounces to follow the good European practices. Another way is being written in Europe. In France, Germany, state funding has been maintained - indeed, in some cases it has been increased - precisely because of the anti-cyclical role attributed to cultural investment. According to Eurostat and WTO estimates, tourism and culture make a greater contribution to GDP than in the construction sector, yet in every debate we have always mentioned the recovery of the construction sector as a key driver for the recovery of the economy and then a debate on the pharaonic infrastructure starts again and instead it is enough to look at the data and invest in another. In Italy, the contribution of the cultural sector to gross domestic product, around 2.3%, is half that in France and the United Kingdom, at the expense of the number of jobs that are mostly skilled and young in this sector. The economic return of cultural heritage to the United Kingdom is three times higher than that of Italy. Authors show that for a euro invested in the cultural sector, the return for our territory is 6 euros. Our country can maintain a competitive edge only by investing in human heritage, returning to investing in school, starting from kindergartens, training and research, musical, artistic, theatrical, film production, cultural heritage, environmental and landscape education initiatives. Not only to finance and promote excellences, which can find their own international trade space, but also to support and grow the many basic initiatives that can be a strong engine of development in the territories also in terms of strengthening and improving the quality of life. The international identity of our country, in addition to lifestyle, food, fashion, football or cars, is strongly linked to cultural heritage, artistic, cultural, musical, cinematographic and theatrical traditions. Giulio Carlo Argan wrote that it is cultural well what culture gradually recognizes as such. And a country so impoverished even culturally risks considering the cultural heritage only as a resource to be consumed and not as an area in which instead to invest public resources for cultural, social growth but above all moral. Certain resources, because in this decree, as we had the opportunity to discuss in the Commission with the Government, there are no resources and, when there are, there are no resources. Apart from European funding for the Grand Pompeii Project, the rest are resources that should come from excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. We must therefore hope for an increase in consumption of alcohol and tobacco, despite the right government campaigns against smoking and alcohol. As far as the Pompeii Commissariat is concerned, the choice to make two Superintendences in the province of Naples is unclear. It mortifies the work done in recent years and draws a system of government that is not simple, indeed heavy, destined to enter into conflict between the various levels. Very singular is the choice to accompany a director also a deputy director. When the Commission visited Pompeii it was clear to everyone, despite the perfect reception, that there are incredible delays whose reasons are many. It is not enough to send someone from the Ministry with superpowers, but it will be important to be able to involve the territory, the local authorities in the first place and the citizens. (at 6 p.m.) (Following PETRAGLIA). Control of the infiltration of organised crime cannot find shortcuts like contracting stations, but rules and principles must be introduced to protect the culture of legality. Complete the only project in the archaeological area of Pompeii without investing resources and not only in the surrounding territory would be reductive. I would like to add - and I would like to remind the Minister, whom we know - that in Campania, in addition to these archaeological airplanes, there is another great area, which is among the 48 UNESCO sites, which is the area of Paestum, which is currently in a state of great difficulty. The tombs of the copper age are totally submerged by grass and not only; in the ancient colony of Poseidonia there is an intense agricultural activity because 80 percent of the land included within the walls are privately owned. Then public resources are needed not only for ordinary maintenance, but to continue the excavations and free the area from the many building abuses that have occupied one of the most important archaeologist sites of Magna Grecia. It is true that the Italian cultural heritage needs a great cataloguing, but due to the immense numbers an internship of one year for 500 young graduates, perhaps research doctors and/or specialists, often with years of study and precariousness behind, unfortunately risks institutionalizing the precariousness and not being useful to the high objective to which the Minister refers. We have proposed to increase the resources and to expand the number of children involved, to try to give a sign of greater stability. We are concerned about the idea of repeating past experiences, all inevitable failures, with huge waste of public money and unused databases, computers and software purchased at a high price and then become obsolete and unusable. We would like to pay attention to this aspect, because there have already been so many experiences - as other interventions have recalled - of young people involved in cataloging systems and, very often, in very long works, which have not found an outlet. We welcome the proposal to assign state property spaces to associations and cooperatives of young artists, but we do not understand why the Government has decided to make this proposal totally useless, because as it is presented it is unrealizable. But how can one think that young artists can rent properties at market price, also doing ordinary and extraordinary maintenance works? Even the municipalities, whose economic difficulties are evident to all, cut the rent for associations or cooperatives of young people by 80 percent, and the State thinks it must cash by renting a part of the state property, abandoned for years without any maintenance. Perhaps it would be more useful to follow other experiences carried out in some parts of Italy. The proposal of administrative simplification for concerts with less than 200 spectators goes in the direction of multiplying the cultural spaces, festivals and summer shows dedicated to live music of young emerging artists, also supporting the work of many young musicians, providing them with the opportunity to perform, facilitating their artistic creativity. Of course, in order to help the grassroots and widespread culture, it would also be important to provide for the exemption of the payment of SIAE rights, and this is a battle that we will do. I will conclude by talking about the story of the lyric foundations. In recent years, errors have been made, in a bad management of the lyrical bodies, whose responsibilities must be charged first and foremost to those who have directed the foundations, in institutional, managerial and managerial roles. The situation of the great economic crisis highlights the short-sighted choice of transforming lyrical institutions into foundations, always with the mere illusion of being able more easily to drain private resources and to progressively reduce public investment. The failure of liberalism applied to culture now appears before everyone's eyes, starting from the dramatic events of the May of music in Florence, where the responsibilities have been placed absurdly on mostly redundant personnel. We do not like the solution proposed, but we understand that it is an attempt by the Minister to avoid the failure proposed by the Commissioner and to try to find a shared solution, after the vain attempts to resort to fiscal expedients and tax alchemies for the purposes of financial sustainability. We appreciate the choice to finalize public intervention also to other opera foundations, starting from those equally in difficulty, such as those of Genoa and Cagliari. I close ‐ because time is tyrant - thanking the Commission's offices for the great work they have done these days, suffering unlikely times, continuous stops, delays (what Senator Bocchino mentioned a little bit) only and exclusively for the tactics and political agreements of a majority of the broad agreements that used this decree simply as a commodity of exchange. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and the Senators De Pin and Puglisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u62	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u63	Mr President, we are well back. Ladies and gentlemen, the decree we are examining has as its title urgent provisions for the protection, enhancement and revival of cultural goods and activities and tourism. Enhancement: a term that fits perfectly into Article 9 of the Constitution. Valorization: a term that, in the case of the cultural good, is taken as an occasion for the economic growth of society, as a flywheel of tourism and numerous collateral services that can make the economy of the territory grow. Therefore, Mr President, the initiatives to enhance Italian cultural heritage are aimed at relaunching the tourist offer also in some archaeological sites, with particular reference to Pompeii and Herculaneum. Too bad there was little attention for some beautiful works of art that we have in the North. In the 10th Commission, during the consultative examination of the measure, Mr President, I considered it necessary to raise a debate on the need for a wider involvement of the Commission itself in the examination of the decree. This is because in the Industry Commission, which we also know has competence in the fields of trade and tourism, there could have been some important indications in the field of tourism, which would certainly have enriched the content of the Decree-Law under consideration. In fact, the word "tourism" is mentioned only once in the whole provision, that is in the title. Yet in the 10th Commission we have an expert, Senator Bocca, who was also rapporteur for this measure, but we have shared with him the desert of the Tartars of rules on tourism present in this measure. If you do not do industry there can not be trade, if you do trade without industry you are out of the business cycle, if you do tourism, that is an industry, you do also trade, and so if you do tourism and do it well, you definitely do industry and therefore trade. And so, Mr President, the good of this country. Is it understandable what I mean by this story? I don't know. You'll see him on the shorthand tomorrow. However, we also know that we are talking about a measure which contains nothing on tourism, if not simply some annexed and connected measure that we find in the economic aspects. Yet on tourism of things to say we would have, there are. Tourists spend their money in a wide variety of goods and services, for transport, housing, entertainment, museums (therefore culture), food and more. Enter that, if there were no tourism, they would not happen. Tourism can therefore bring many benefits, if properly developed; it can bring valuable currency, income, investment and it allows a diversification of the economy; and only God knows how much we need it, Mr President, given the unpleasing relationships that lately come on manufacturing. This country is an outdoor museum. It has the largest cultural heritage in the world, with over 3,400 museums, about 2,000 archaeological areas and parks and 43 UNESCO sites. But, Mr President (in this blessed country there is always a "but" despite this fact of absolute primacy in the world, it turns out from analyses made that the United States, with half of the sites compared to those of Italy, have an economic return equal to seven times the Italian one. There is a question of why, Mr President, and perhaps some explanation exists. The money was there, it's there, and maybe it'll be there. I am referring to the money allocated by the European Union, which amounts to 1.5 billion and has already returned to the same coffers, the European ones. I am referring to the money never used for the Cultural Attractors Programme 2007-2013: an ambitious Community project for the economic rebirth of the South of Italy, through the enhancement of local cultural heritage. As if that were not enough, another 2 billion are waiting to return to the coffers from which they came. Clearly, it's never used money. In this country we cannot spend money because we are incapable of developing serious projects to be financed. This country cannot make a system and culture and tourism, many times, are only words inserted in the various electoral programs. Mr President, the European Union still gives some money. The European Union, however, still gives this country confidence. There is the money that comes then for financial coverage from excise duties on alcohol and lubricating oils. There are 75 million euros removed from that fund that had to pay the debts of the public administration, the flag of this whole constitutional arc. Then there is the financial cover for an amendment - I see the one on the management of a well-known politician (John Melandri, to name and surname) - found in a fund dedicated to culture, which has money available that has never been spent. Rob de matt, President! How will all this money be spent, Mr President? A great slice will go to the directors, the directors of directors, the deputy directors, the committees of strategic direction, the committees to which the prefects, superintendence, heads and heads and clearly sub-heads are headed: an army of subjects who, in various ways, will have to ensure the regularity of contracts, firms and avoid mafia infiltrations. If you will allow, Mr President, the Northern League Parliamentary Group has serious doubts about the use of these sums. I remember that in the same Pompeii it was not enough thirteen years to put in operation an elevator for disabled people in the local train station. The direct participation of the European Union in the salvation of Pompeii could be the last, given that countless red tape has so far prevented the use of the enormous resources. The 105 million available must be spent by 2015, but the government only now intervenes with a further extension of governance, with the real risk of fragmentation of the decision-making bodies, increasing bureaucratic obstacles with further waste of time. Not to mention the funds, gentlemen, of the money obtained with excise duties to say the least clumsy and not really original - getting drunk will cost a fortune, but it will make culture [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] - that we hope will not end those spent in 2000 for many domus of Pompeii, which have been restored but are currently closed. Hundreds are the civil servants made redundant in the South and there are no custodians in Pompeii. But do we realize, Mr President, what kind of attitude is there at local level? Try not to invent new places without first evaluating a serious mobility within the bodies present on the territory. There are three million euros spent on an iron and glass work for the reception of tourists. Too bad this work has never welcomed anyone. Attention then to criminal infiltrations into public works, which will certainly not spare the money allocated by this decree. It's a lump that goes down to the underworld. Anti-mafia, anti-camorra and local anti-politic controls, which may be inappropriate, should therefore be extended. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] No euros or few euros, for the cultural heritage of the North. That, Mr President, is not a good thing: it is a discrimination that we would have liked to have done without. We have beautiful real estate and theatres that need the same attention. In conclusion, Mr President, we hope that people will get drunk, not just of culture, because otherwise there will be no funds for this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Marcucci]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u64	She is registered to speak Senator Giannini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u65	Mr President, Minister, there are few of us left to prefer the subject of culture to other issues on the air at the same time on other channels. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Perhaps these few or some of them will not have missed the fact that the title of the decree-law under consideration (cultural value, in the synthetic form) reflects a political commitment already expressed previously in the report that you presented to the Joint Committees of the House and Senate a few months ago. Indeed, his relationship, Minister Bray, had been inspired, by explicit mention from the outset, to the idea of culture as a common good and as a fundamental right of the person. In our opinion, and in my opinion in particular, this is a conscious and respectful view of the non-primary needs of the individual and the citizen, who is and must remain the first beneficiary of the cultural heritage of his country and in general. It is the same vision that has generated in Europe the principle of cultural exception on which, from this year, the reworking of the rules of exchange between the European Union and the rest of the world will be based. Therefore, we appreciate this inspiring principle and also the internal articulation of the measure that intervenes in the two Heads with specific measures in the fundamental fields of tangible and intangible heritage (I remember by common memory Chapter I with the urgent provisions for the protection, restoration and valorization of the Italian cultural heritage and Chapter II with the urgent provisions for the revival of cinema, musical activities and live entertainment). It seems to me that there is an implicit reference to the definition that UNESCO proposed and stated in its resolution of 17 October 2003. Ladies and gentlemen, after years of financial and political famine compared to Italian culture (unforgivable and paradoxical, as has been said more or less by everyone, for a country like Italy), this step forward was not at all taken for granted. Even for this reason alone, the opinion of the Civic Choice Group for Italy is, therefore, positive, both on the establishment of the decree-law as a whole and in relation to all those measures aimed at a partial structural reorganization and refinancing of institutions and institutions. However, Minister, we cannot approve of the limited funds allocated and, above all, the political choice to resort to a further increase in indirect taxes, the effect of which on consumption is - this is - obvious and predictable. In our vision, in fact, culture is also and above all a "duty" (to complete that principle which is inspired by the decree-law), which concerns the community as a whole and invests it with inescapable political responsibilities: the State, in the exercise of its public function of protection, valorization and promotion of cultural and artistic heritage, and civil society, in the offer of a participation even private in the performance of the same tasks. Moreover, in its first meaning, in the meaning that I would define etymological, it means "interest, use and service for the community" and not necessarily "by direct management and management of the State." In this sense, therefore, we must imagine and propose instruments for the de-escalation of liberalities that even in this measure find that adequate space and hoped that we would have expected. Allow me to say, Minister, that the decree, seen in this light, perhaps lacks some courage and, in some respects, remains incomplete, but we have already said that it is a first step. I will make a few examples of how the two criteria for structural reorganisation of some peripheral entities (Article 1 in particular) and process innovation (Articles 2 and 3 on digitisation of cultural heritage and the use of places of culture) can be greatly improved by way of amendment, in terms of streamlining of command chains, simplification of procedures and real strengthening of human resources. For the Grande Progetto Pompei, it has chosen to concentrate the decision-making power in a single committee, to guarantee greater effectiveness in the management and rehabilitation of a sick site and forced by history in a very difficult context. Positive, in our opinion, is the institution of the Special Superintendence for the Archaeological Heritage of Pompeii, Herculaneum and Stabia, but I wonder with what resources it can best exercise its role, since it is not specified. Similarly, in Article 2, the evocative programme "500 young people for culture" is an encouraging political signal, as has already been mentioned by some colleagues, in the happy and unusual connection for our country of qualified training with a practical and immediate practice of specialized training; however, here again let me say that 2.5 million euros seem more an encouragement to proceed than a commitment of adequate expenditure to the end. Equally acceptable is Article 3, which appropriately regulates the regular opening to the public of institutions and places of culture. The principle, which responds to a necessary and modern idea of free use of culture in its various forms, is acceptable, but perhaps the maximum effectiveness would result from the allocation of the revenue from the sale of tickets directly to individual institutions. This is a simple way to apply the principle of responsible autonomy successfully experienced in other contexts. The decree-law under consideration, finally, pays meritorious attention, as I said recalling the Heads, also to the production of contemporary art, to the live show, to all those forms of cultural activity that have made Italy famous in the world, in the first place the opera houses. On this specific point, perhaps with more determination than in all other areas, important resources (the 75 million that someone has already mentioned); however, the reorganisation measures that accompany the refinancing, that is - if I remember well - the obligation to draw up a plan of return from debt and to renegotiate the debt itself and the overall reorganization, also compulsory, of the management of the staff, still seem dictated by conditions of emergency. I want to say that this can and must be combined with the stimulation of sustainability in the system of autonomy and effective meritocracy in the allocation of public funds, with the criterion of post-hoc evaluation. Here too, let's say it without infinity: even in the world of culture, Minister, not all operate in the same way, not all produce the same quality and therefore not all are meritorious in the same way of having public financial support and recognizing it is not a fault, but a sign of good policy. Let me conclude, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Bray, that we are about to approve - perhaps tomorrow - the first emergency measure, after many, too many years, devoted entirely to cultural heritage. It testifies to the sensitivity of this Parliament and this Government to the genetic code of the Italian people. We hope that while respecting a brilliant and ambitious title (that cultural value from which I started) we will want and know how to give continuity to the political choice that created it, creating a real model, replicable and improved over time, for the modern and necessary declination of Article 9 of the Italian Constitution. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and Torrisi Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u66	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u67	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that we too welcome this decree-law, because it seems to us to be the first attempt after a long time to try to put order in the world of cultural heritage, we still have reservations about this measure which I will now present to you. The decree-law in title bears the name of value culture and has been defined as saving culture. Both the name and the definition would suggest that the ambitious attempt of the measure was to offer a response to the numerous emergencies that crowd and weigh in the matter of cultural goods, but keeping dear and firm the principle of the value of culture, or always remembering that culture is value, has value and produces value. Moreover, the etymology of the word "culture" refers us to the verb "cultivate" and we want to think that here we thought of cultivating values and values: in a civil and democratic country we would expect this. Beyond the noble intentions, however, it seems to us instead to see the usual false progressive rhetoric, which is becoming increasingly assertive as a cultural model: that, to understand us, which we have seen emerge and hide among the folds of the decree itself, where prebende, armchairs and armchairs nest, set up for a banquet to which transparency, merit, common sense and foresight participate as convitati of stone. Transparency, moreover, remains relegated to the Indian reserve under the heading of Article 9, or forgotten if necessary. Merit is remembered on rare occasions. Common sense latinate, inexplicably, when more would allow to find resources. We shall return to this when we are discussing the amendments and voting on them. It also seems to us that farsightedness has once again abdicated in favour of a vision of war, and more appropriate to patch than to pack and build. And to say that, from the programmatic lines, it seemed to us that, although sometimes critical or perfectible, the Minister had revolutionary intentions. Therefore, to want to think badly, it would almost be said that the hand that wrote the measure, especially in some of its articles, is not that of the Minister, but that of those who pursue the strategy, already begun for some time, to relegate culture to the role of a luxury harp, denying it, once again, the opportunity to leave those regions and to express its full potential as an inexhaustible resource of intellectual and spiritual enrichment. That enrichment that leads to the formation of critical minds, capable of participating in the debates that arise around the central issues of our community. A need that we feel, as a community, very deep, especially considering the twenty years of embarrassment from which we are leaving [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and, above all, considering the importance they have had, and that they still have, sails and thrones, outlets and fast food. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] This need is also reflected in Parliament. This inability to debate is also found in our classrooms. Here is the death of ideas. Here it was good, and here we had the opportunity, to do something in the direction that indicates a philosopher, Nicola Chiaromonte, who says: "Culture, in fact, is not the ground of truth, but of dispute about truth." I do not want to think that this is a missed opportunity, because we are still facing an amending phase. I therefore ask the Minister to take these considerations into account and to remember when we begin the examination of the measure. In fact, if we want a genuine renewal of this Parliament, which leads to common sense choices, the renewal must take place first outside, because we are the expression and emanation of the community we are called to represent. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Giorgi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u69	Mr President, the speeches that have been made so far on the draft law No 1014, all authoritative and of absolute interest, have highlighted the senate's attention to the development and growth of that set of positive attitudes, of critical judgments, of immaterial actions, of more or less strong aspirations, of legitimate expectations, of hopes founded on an Italy that can finally take due account of the value of its culture, the depth of its traditions, the awareness of its vast past, the need to ensure a future for all this: the immense physical heritage that testifies with art, architecture, the care, although tiring, of the landscape, the extraordinary repertoire of beauty and harmony distributed along the most munificent peninsula of amazing sensations in the world. The decree value culture wants to be at the center of this singular scenario, it wants to interpret a widespread feeling, and perhaps in constant growth, aimed at giving greater consideration to our common past and our common future. In fact, from this point of view we must see the timid but appreciable attempt of the Government to put a firm and resolute hand to the re-evaluation of our cultural assets, our cultural activities, trying to combine culture and tourism, the heritage of the nation, with its income. A vision that is finally innovative that goes in the direction of the efforts made by previous governments, especially of center-right footprint, that to the liberal vision, functional to the economic realization of a society that follows the common good, have dedicated political, legislative and administrative action. See, in this regard, the extraordinary bearing of the new code of cultural goods, as defined by Minister Urbani, in its landscape and historical-artistic values, veined by great humanistic and aesthetic intuitions, conservation and protection. Much has been said about the content of the decree, much has been said about the shortcomings and shortcomings found in the multiple areas of intervention. For example, in this regard, I renew the negative remarks that accompany the considerations that tourism growth policies are not at all taken on board and therefore find justification for the criticism and disappointment of Federalberghi, represented here by Mr Bocca, on the wasted opportunity to give concrete impetus to the delicate entrepreneurial sector more akin to the matter that we are dealing with here, culture. I therefore hope that a forthcoming tourism decree will partially compensate for the delays in view which the tourism industry is complaining about without any reason. Today Italy can overcome the challenge of GDP by resorting more and more to its cultural fields, art, nature, archaeology, sumptuous architecture, food and taste, oral traditions, cinematography, costume and fashion. In short, Minister and Senators, Italy can be more than today's tourist destination if it becomes aware of being equipped with a unique model in the world: the Italian style, that is to say an Italian way to life. But having said that, I cannot, as PdL Holding Company in the 7th Commission, not be pleased with the fruitful work done to deepen collectively the political significance of the decree and to contribute, together with my majority, to improve it in order to achieve greater effectiveness and efficiency in the connective tissue of the country. However, this decree needs to be distinguished in order to engrave itself in the living flesh of the cultural world, in the productive fabric of the world of volunteering and school and in the environments of youthful creativity, entertainment and cultured music. It will be efficient to the extent that the Ministry, in the first place, will be able to be consequent to what is written in the text of the provision. It will be effective if you find support in the country, in the institutions, in the recipients, men and women, so that the words of the epigraph placed behind your post, Mr President of the Senate, and in front of all of us, senators and senators: Here where we recognize the homeland of our thoughts, everything speaks to us of greatness. The greatness, therefore, lies in the thoughts, the same ones that could help us to find national cohesion and vision in the European and world context. I conclude, Minister Bray, with a heartfelt solicitation: this decree can be useful especially for the coming days of Italy if it will be able to look more closely at who the future will have to live it, trying to look at you as an opportunity for life, the young people. So let us give more space to young people in cultural heritage: the many young people with so-called weak degrees could find in cultural policies an opportunity to assert themselves and contribute to the greatness of the country. Government and Parliament are committed to finding more resources to invest in youth and cultural policies. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and SCpI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u70	Senator Puglisi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u71	Mr President, kind Minister, I have listened to the speeches of all my colleagues in the Senate and we have all stressed that there is finally a return to investing in culture, as a fundamental lever of the country's growth. Ours is a country that does not have great extensions, that does not have raw materials; Italian oil is the immense artistic, archaeological and cultural heritage: a unique heritage in the world. But my statement, which I believe is shared by the whole House, remains pure rhetoric, not only if resources are not invested, but if policies are not implemented to govern the system of cultural goods and activities that make its exploitation, maintenance and, above all, exploitation effective. The decree value culture is not an abstract work or mere injection of rain resources to announce a reversal of trend, which however was much expected in the country, but a system of norms that begins to make the use of the resources effective and efficient. Other than patching up, Senator of the Movimento 5 Stelle Montevecchi, other than false progressiveism or false rhetoric; these are concrete norms that you have also contributed, with your important contribution of constructive opposition, to carrying out in the Commission. That is precisely why I would like to thank Minister Bray, undersecretary Borletti Buitoni, who followed our work, rapporteur Marcucci and all the Commissioners of the 7th Commission for the important work we have done these days to make transparent the financing mechanisms of cultural institutions that go through the whole text of the decree. There is one more step that can still be taken, and some of our agendas go in this direction: we hope that, by the next law of stability, museums, theatres and lyrical-symphonic foundations can count on at least three years' funding, so that we can program activities with certainty and therefore implement policies of fund raising, marketing and development of international relations in a sure and autonomous way. Meanwhile, thanks to the stubbornness of this Minister, the proceeds of tickets to museums and places of culture that used to go to the Ministry of Economy and Finance were returned to culture and only in part were returned to the correct destination. In addition to the long-awaited restoration measures of the lyrical-symphonic foundations, there is also an important measure in this sector that we have built together: the Single Fund makes available a 5% premium share for those who achieve a balanced budget, precisely to encourage sound management. Compared to the almost individual bargaining of institutions, local authorities and others, to encourage the allocation of resources according to parameters that recognize the quality of artistic productions, their circuitation, production capacities, research and relationship with international networks, I believe is a factor in the development of policies that must make the whole system grow. The great speech on Pompeii - I am addressing Senator Giro, who is not here at the moment, who has made a critical speech on this - I believe that he really needs a project director-general, so that European and state funds do not go missing. But above all, if we do not want the archaeological area not to remain a jewel embedded in a degraded area, we need, in addition to the intervention on the archaeological site, a large project of urban regeneration and regeneration, connecting the area to the main infrastructures and relaunching it, becoming a motor of development and healthy employment - especially youth - of an entire territory. All this is contained in this measure and is indeed the central part of it. The appeal I make to everyone is: let us try to be proud first when politics tries to do good things. On Pompeii we cannot fail, there is the whole world watching us. And with this decree there is an assumption of institutional responsibility of the Government and this Parliament. Making a system: it is another important step that the Minister and the Government have announced that they want to make Italian culture do, in a country where too often, even at local level, the individual institutions do not speak, do not cooperate and live in a splendid solitude, which in the time of the crisis is obviously less splendid. This Government has decided to promote cooperation between cultural institutions, between education and culture, between culture and tourism and businesses, taking into account the principles of vertical and horizontal subsidiarity. In the near future, I believe and hope, there will also be a new measure to relaunch tourism. This government of service was born for these reasons (I say this also to the opposition parliamentarians, who, apart from the speeches they make in the Chamber, who then end up in the newspapers, in the Commissions collaborate and I thank them for this), to put their hands on the evils of the past and to start a tiring work of reconstruction. That reconstruction starts from culture seems to me to be a very good sign. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u72	The general debate is closed. As already informally communicated to the Groups, since the opinion of the Budget Committee has not yet been received, the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government will be delivered tomorrow morning. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u75	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, with my speech, I would like to draw to the attention of the House a matter of topicality, through a fact of news that relates to a vote taken a few weeks ago by the Senate. In recent days, we have learned with great emotion of the incident in Chiuduno, in which Dr. Cantamessa lost her life while helping someone who had been injured. But after that incident there was a very serious fact: as reported in the local newspaper "L'Eco" in Bergamo, police investigations have shown that a carabiniere has adapted the documents and personal effects of another person who was involved in the accident and - extremely serious fact - used the credit card to play slot machines. Ludopathy, we're still here. The situation is now being investigated, but above all it is being considered from a social point of view. We have already said this in this House and there has also been a vote which has confirmed the importance of limiting this situation of social degradation. In the following days, we heard the government declare that it wants to disregard that vote of the House, which was expressed at two times, first with a motion, then with an agenda, which provided for a twelve-month moratorium on online gambling and electronic gambling systems in public places and open to the public in order to stop this kind of reality that is ruining families. From the record we have seen these facts come back. For example, in a hospital a nurse took possession of the patient's possessions to play them, because she couldn't help it. Colleagues, you have to be aware of the reality that we have ahead. We are not talking about an emergency that can be underestimated, about a small emergency: we are talking about a very strong social emergency, about families that are ruined. And if even a carabiniere, a person of strong mind by definition, falls into this reality, then the aggression of ludopathy on people is too strong and must be fought with as much determination. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Gaetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u76	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-105.ana.u77	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 19 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.47.
