ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr BERGER, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u3	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the situation in Turkey. I call the Foreign Minister, Dr Bonino.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u4	Mr President, Senators and Senators, on 12 June I reported to the House on events in Turkey and I am pleased to give an update to the Senate today. The line that Italy has held has been and is centered on two hinges. The first: we have insistently addressed the Turkish Government - I have also done it personally in a recent telephone conversation with the Foreign Minister Davutoglu - a strong appeal to moderation and to the search for shared solutions: these are the expressions, precisely at critical times, of a participatory and mature democracy. Disproportionate reactions are never in the interests of a people to whom we feel very close, the Turkish people, or the government of a country that wants to define itself as a democracy accomplished. We come to the second cornerstone: we stressed in our talks with our European partners, even recently in the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday, that the European Union cannot give in to the instinctive reaction to stiffen up, to close in the face of the facts that have troubled Turkey. It may not be intuitive; but if we adopt, as is right on the part of governments, a reasoned and strategic attitude, the reality is that we must instead keep open the channel of dialogue. Otherwise, we would lose any chance of influence. The process of accession to the European Union has always proved to be a powerful lever for the democratic reforms of the candidate countries and the strengthening of their institutions. It is no coincidence that the objective of European integration has slowed down in Turkey. If Europe wants to influence Turkey's democratic and reformist path, it cannot and must not freeze negotiations. As regards the latest developments, the decisions taken at the General Affairs Council last Tuesday marked an important step in favour of this Italian approach. The compromise formula identified - with a decision in principle favourable to the opening of Chapter 22 and the postponement to a subsequent debate in the autumn to define the date of the Intergovernmental Conference - was also welcomed by Turkey (Mr Davutoglu confirmed this to me last Tuesday). Prime Minister Erdogan himself expressed his appreciation for this solution. Dialogue therefore remains open, as we thought right. He avoided the wall against the wall. This is an important step forward also accepted by some of the European countries initially opposed to the opening of Chapter 22. But I repeat: it is a strategic decision, in the interests of the Turkish people and the European Union. If the Luxembourg decision is therefore to be welcomed, much will depend - of course - on the further developments in Turkey, which we will follow closely. Our objective is clear: to succeed progressively in integrating Turkey into Europe, and a Turkey that proves to be fully democratic. Emarginating or pushing Ankara towards other poles of attraction would be neither in the interests of a Europe with a vulnerable front in the Mediterranean front, nor in the interests of a people, the Turkish people, who still aspire - at least in significant percentages - to a European anchor. On the facts and on the first stage of the protest I already reported last week. The Italian Government will continue to raise awareness of the Turkish language, so that, as requested by the motions presented here in the Senate, there will be a light on what has happened, including the alleged cases of violence against women, which have not yet been officially confirmed. The Farnesina - with the crisis unit, our embassy in Ankara and our consulates in Istanbul and Izmir - has followed events from the start, paying particular attention to the presence and protection of Italian citizens. Being involved in the clashes, as you know, was also the Italian photographer Daniele Stefanini, who was put in custody while taking photos in the Taksim square area. The intervention of our embassy in Ankara and our consulate general in Istanbul allowed the release, the next day, of Mr Stefanini, who immediately returned to Italy. Meanwhile, AKP vice president Celik announced that Gezi Park's future will be decided by referendum. The hypothesis of a local consultation to decide the fate of the park had already been ventilated by Deputy Prime Minister Arinç, as you may know. Ladies senators and senators, you have heard me repeat several times that Taksim Square is not Tahrir Square. Turkey has democratic roots, the parties in the government and the Prime Minister have been freely elected and three times they have received a clear popular mandate. But the citizens' initiative indicates that some of them are not recognised in the most recent evolution of the AKP party. It will also be a minority in the country, as has been said, but, as recognised by authoritative Turkish politicians and observers, democracy does not only mean winning elections. It also means being able to listen to the voice of citizens and to protect the opinions of the different members of society, admitting that they can be expressed in a peaceful way. The protection of minorities, in fact, is the authentic test of democratic maturity: for all countries, including Turkey. In recent years Italy has always looked with confidence at the Turkish model, in the belief that it was able to combine Islam and democracy. It is perhaps illusory to think that the only economic success - and there is no doubt that the Erdogan Government has produced remarkable results the economics - did not generate social tensions. As Samuel Huntington has effectively written, in societies where rapid transformations are experienced that produce a rapid increase in the middle class, questions that arise from society increase at a more sustained rate than governments' ability to satisfy them. In summary, on the one hand Ankara has achieved significant results, and, last but not least, important measures for opening up to the Kurdish component. The latter, not by chance, was mostly absent from the demonstrations of the square. On the other hand, there are signs of malaise in society, such as the growing discomfort of insufficient respect for freedom of expression. The progress reports of the European Union make up this picture, made up of lights and shadows. And in order to express an objective assessment it is necessary to take account of this composite set, without going from one excess to the other. If, until a few weeks ago, Turkey was a model to follow, we must not give in to excessive pessimism. Italy has the cultural and social tools to better understand the complexity of societies, and Turkish society, because our country is also a microcosm in which over the years, historically, there have been, on a different scale and with due distinctions, tensions caused by the contrast between liberal aspirations and closing responses. The European anchoring has allowed Italy to overcome so many crises and pockets of backwardness, guaranteeing us greater freedom, and it would be wrong to deny today this same possibility to the Turkish people. Keeping the negotiations alive is keeping this possibility alive. The final outcome will depend on the concrete progress that will be made on the various negotiating chapters. And yet the crucial chapters concerning human rights, freedom and justice (in particular Chapters 23 and 24) have not been opened - I come back to this in a moment. We'll see in the next few months. Finally, Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, as I said at the beginning, the decision reached in Luxembourg on the opening of Chapter 22 is a positive sign, but we must honestly tell ourselves some truths. The negotiations had been stalled for a long time, and for other reasons - particularly European hesitations - well before the last events. At the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday I noted that we should have opened not only Chapter 22, but also Chapters 23 and 24 on justice and respect for fundamental rights for a long time. If we had done so, it would have been the most effective way to influence the Turkish Government's policy and to give a signal of closeness to those in Turkey who are demonstrating for their rights. As some Turkish commentators have pointed out, although it is disenchanted about the prospect of accession, Turkish public opinion remains very sensitive to Europe's voice: the majority of the population feels part of the European system, especially for their particular commitment to civil rights. Turkey is a strategic partner of Italy. In the last decade Italian companies operating in Turkey, with excellent results, have reached a thousand units. To operate for the European anchor for the reforms and for the internal stability of the country is therefore essential also for our investments and for our economic interests, this must be said openly and in full transparency. As I said, the resumption of Turkey's European path will depend primarily on the development of Turkey itself, but the Luxembourg decision is an opportunity that I hope the Turkish Government will know and will take. It keeps a door open, but the outcome of the negotiations is still everything to write, possibly together. Italy is a sincere friend of Turkey, a country that I have always had in a special way in my heart. But true friends are those who take responsibility for speaking frankly even when the words spoken are not pleasing. We do not intend, as an Italian Government, to take the role of moralizers; on the contrary, we want to help Turkey to reconcile its various souls and to take up the path of reform with conviction. My hope is therefore that the Turkish Government will be able to accept our sincere call for dialogue. At the same time, we will continue to do everything we can to ensure that Europe follows the path of accession negotiations with conviction, taking into account, as it should be, all the necessary criteria and conditions, but avoiding prejudiceal closures. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u5	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, the protest to defend a public park has become a political battle for the defence of Turkish identity, in which religious, social, political and generational motivations are interwoven, as if the unbridled urban development, which was not discussed or shared with the population, was proof of the Prime Minister's increasing authoritarian aims. Thus, Erdogan's zero tolerance against unarmed young people, students and lawyers, ended up telling ancient grudges, and not only creeping Islamism, a stifling religious paternalism, even the prohibition of kissing in public and drinking a beer, of differing from those concepts of homeland and Islam, of the crime of blasphemy, which have already brought dozens of intellectuals to jail; not only, that is, the fracture between Islamism and secularism, but a more complex clash. The real issue, Madam Minister, is democracy, which for Erdogan stops at the citizens who voted for it, forgetting that the protection of those who have expressed a different opinion is the decisive architrave on which, instead, an accomplished democracy is measured, in which the relationship between political power and society is always based on the value of dialogue. The choices of the government have exasperated the divisions, and Erdogan is dangerously diverting towards a new authoritarianism incompatible with freedom. In recent years we have recognised some of the Prime Minister's merits, even though it has seen us, as you know, always express solidarity with the Kurdish people. Bringing back, for example, an army with coup vocations inside the barracks was Erdogan's merit, but what was it for if he himself replaced the military with time blocking the democratisation of the country, and if today he looks more like a Sultan who speaks to himself, as if the young people who are on the street were not also children of his own people? The European Union, perhaps because it is a little too interested in future pipelines that are likely to pass through Turkey by subtracting us from Russia's gas dependence, has been unable to play a political role: and its silence has been deafening, too distant from those United States of Europe that would serve. Turkey's accession to the Union, which has been blocked for ten years, should be relaunched - you, Minister, are absolutely right - but with it also democracy and the sacred respect for dissent, because Taksim Square is not a matter of public order but is a real cry for freedom. Of course, it is not the Arab Spring, but it has with it the same thread that has crossed the streets and squares in all these years: it is above all being outside of traditional politics, with all the limits but also with the opportunities that this means. The contagion that has crossed the Mediterranean, regardless of whether it intends to criticize heinous dictatorships or simply suffering democracies, has, however, had a common word, despite the obvious differences that you have rightly pointed out in these days, and we have shared it. This common word is: "democracy." A word, Madam Minister, which always applies: it also applies in that part of the world which fortunately can vote and express itself freely, but in which, at times, this same word alludes more to a formal universe than to a substantial one. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u7	He's enlisted to speak Senator Razzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u8	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if they had asked us some time ago to name a nation that had served as an example of good governance, capable of guaranteeing peace and security, we would have had no doubt. A splendid and unexpected example of internal and external governance, especially in the work of international political mediation throughout the Middle East basin, was all anatolian: Turkey. It's not a paradox. In the presence of Turkey, it seemed that the West had to impose a real and radical improvement of its democratic systems; it was enough to look at the protests of the European squares, when an ethical revolution was now felt urgent that would restore dignity to words, obeying its own Constitutions, beginning with a healthy transfer of sovereignty. Today, however, we are faced with facts that do not reassure: Taksim Square has become a place of cruel and violent protest, of opposition to the Government that demonstrates its limitations, proving that the path of democracy in that country is still long. Thousands of anti-government protesters asked Tunali, in the centre of Ankara, for the resignation of Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan. Journalists are arrested and the hard fist of the police is heard. The scenario we see every day is unqualifiable and raises serious and well-founded issues of international policy. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ours is a rule of law that has seen democracy digest in fact in the years that have marked our own national history. As the rule of law, we can only remain grounded in the facts of which Turkey is the protagonist. It is certainly not a good time for that country, but the sense of everything that happens is very serious; it is seen not so much by the reasons for the struggle, but by an unreasonable stance of government, obtuse, unprepared and unavailable. All this, however, serves to reduce the good governance of Turkey to which we mentioned in the beginning and to adapt, in terms of attention, our foreign policy. The concern is that, behind the scenes of the Turkish stage, there are other unpleasant and unexpected surprises. [[Applause from the PDL Group and the Council Senator.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u9	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u10	Mr President, I greet and thank Mrs Bonino for her speech, not only for the words she has said, but above all for the strong conviction she expressed within the European Commission, whose 27 Commissioners decided a couple of days ago to reopen the negotiations with Ankara and to bring it to a conclusion from October, in the very strong hope - which you wanted to interpret this morning - that the confidence given to this huge country of almost 80 million inhabitants will have the desired effect, that is to say, to enter into this country (or rather to re-enter, given and considering that unfortunately a democratic change is taking place in Turkey) the principles and values of Europe, in particular those following the Maastricht Treaty, after which Europe wanted to be established as an institution, guaranteeing a process that is not only economic. We are no longer the European Economic Community, but the European Union: a Union which bases its principles, after Maastricht, on absolutely non-limitable aspects, either in any way optional or at second level, such as peace, civil rights, human rights and democracy. We hope that Ankara will correctly accept the signal that this act of generosity and openness has been intended to give to you, Minister, as representative of Italy, as well as to the representatives of the other 26 countries of the European Union. It's a bet, let's face it. We have four months before October to check that this is being interpreted correctly. Then, as you have already said, the hope is clearly that, not only Chapter 22, but also other chapters, which are far more crucial from this point of view, can find inclusion and sharing. I would therefore ask you, Madam Minister, what are, first of all, the capacities which we have been able to put in place in the context of the European Union and as a friendly Italian people vis-à-vis Ankara in order to be sure of the situation with regard to fundamental issues such as those mentioned, which I do not repeat and which my colleague from the Mixed Left Group, Mr Ecology and Freedom, has told us a great deal, and which we are very concerned about. I am referring to the strong limitations of some fundamental freedoms that have existed in that country since 2011, starting, for example, from the reintegration of the crime of abortion and blasphemy, as well as a limitation in the Kemalist study programmes, which had been implemented after the Kemal Atatürk revolution, since 1936, and which today, however, are unfortunately back to highlight a priority in Muslim religious principles. I would like to understand what are the acts, the methods and the times with which, certainly for your part, the role it plays, and for the European Commission, a reversal of the trend can be seen. Madam Minister, taking advantage of your presence here today, I would like to ask you something else. I would like to know whether that dream, which was by Spinelli but also by De Gasperi, of seeing a serious Community defence policy and organization structured from the military point of view can become one of the key issues for this Europe in the near future. I believe that this too can be a strong stimulus for Europe to become more and more a continent capable of guaranteeing, not only itself, but the whole world in relation to fundamental issues such as those that have been at the heart of this morning's debate. [[Applause from the PD, SCP and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u11	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u12	Mr Minister, your call for moderation, which I believe each of us, in Italy and in Europe, must make its own against our own states of mind and our own assessments. Of course, it was a bad image: that of the hydrants in which it is suspected that not only water was put, the one taken by our fellow citizen, journalist and photographer, Daniele Stefanini, and so on. However, I believe, Madam Minister, that your political assessment is correct, that you have received consensus and, I believe, some significant diplomatic success: Europe could not and should not stiffen and raise a wall against a wall. The issue of the park, let's call it the urban issue of the city of Istanbul, seems wisely entrusted to a local democratic consultation. However, the considerations of the relationship between Turkey and Europe, but, I would say, between Turkey and the West, are of a broader profile. Who were the "young Turks"? In interpretative simplism it is said to be "liberal-massons" official trained at the universities of Paris, but they were above all the fruit of European diplomacy, of the old empire. From this point of view they were radical modernizers not without some bit of Jacobinism, not without tension (let's think of the Armenian massacre). Turkey has gradually managed to get out of all of this. The evolution of the AKP party is very interesting: an Islamic party that accepted however the historical continuity of the revolution of 1914 and, therefore, overall secular moderate. It would seem that in the exercise of power this party is revealing a certain fundamentalism of power. Let's hope that's not the case, but we can't help but record the processes that have been going on. You, Minister, have mentioned intelligently the evaluations of a book by Samuel Huntington. More concretely, in fact, we can record the successes and openings on the Kurdish issue, an issue that could re-explode in Taksim Square. And if a comparison were to be made, which you have rightly suggested not to do, at this time the Egyptian square, which looked like a spring hole, is a catastrophe. In order for President Morsi to depose, it was necessary to collect 5 million signatures: 15 million of them seem to have been collected, and there is a tremendous tension. In this spirit, those who speak to you, Mr Minister, together with other colleagues (Senator Marcucci of the Democratic Party and other Members of the House of Deputies) will be coming to Istanbul tomorrow for the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly (dealing with diplomacy of parliaments, not governments). The OSCE has decided to carry out its work in Istanbul as well, but there is no doubt that according to the traditions of democratic civilization in this House there will be a day of debate, especially for those violations of the rights of journalistic recovery, and so on. I believe, then, that the consideration which it considers decisive, if we want to be supportive of the claim of freedom of those who have been in the streets, is very wise, chapters 22, 23 and 24 of the negotiations which deal with issues such as human rights and prison conditions, on which Italy has no lesson in liberalism and Europeanism to address to the Turkish public. Let us not leave behind that opportunity for which the voice of Europe is considered by Turkish public opinion so important and we approve of the decision to accept the call for moderation, not to stiffen and to keep open what must no longer separate Turkey from Europe, because if it were so, as it seemed five years ago at the time of the accident with that part of the West which is the State of Israel, if Turkey went to the search for anchors that were not Europe and the West would be a catastrophe, precisely in the sense of the title of that book which denounced, but did not wish, the clash of civilizations. I am quoting Huntington, the author whom you too, Mr Minister, have proposed to us. Hence our Group's attention and gratitude for the considerations we have heard this morning. [[Applause from the LAG and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u13	Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u14	Mr President, Minister, Taksim Square in Istanbul during the last month has become not only the physical epicenter of the protest of most of the Turkish people against Erdogan's "confessional-integralist" policy, but the new symbolic nucleus of a renewed glow of freedom and an irrepressible desire for cultural and economic modernity that has been crossing the Arab side of the Mediterranean for some years now. Last week alone we were gathered here to ratify a document that will have an innovative and epochal legislative dimension on the fundamental issue of human rights: the Istanbul Convention, which has grafted a virtuous mechanism to protect women against any form of violence; and now, by a strange interweaving of destiny, or perhaps not, we find ourselves discussing Turkey in the opposite direction. Not as a geographical place where modernity has found its reforming spaces under a strong legal thrust imbued with democratic values and inspiring principles, but a place where substantial rights themselves have been compressed by a wind of archaic religious moralism imbued with social repression, both in the customs and in the guarantees of individual universal freedom. Those who have had the opportunity to deepen the events that have generated the Turkish protest against the choices of the Government of Ankara will have noticed that we are facing a battle of civilizations of historical dimension. What, at first sight, could represent a dispute that draws its strength from the reaction of the new generations of Turkey to the legislative impositions "moralizing" on the lifestyles urged by the pro-Islamic party AKP of Erdogan (prohibit of sale of alcohol, reposition of the turban for women, construction of new monumental mosques, homophobic parliamentary positions) then became a vigorous opposition to the cultural and administrative strategies of the Anatolian country. The young people of Istanbul have been risking their physical safety for days, and unfortunately some of them have died, in order to defend their dignity as a modern, European, fully civilized and competitive country, which has blackened its economic structure in recent years on a capitalist-western commercial and financial system. In essence, the revolutionary scope of the Taksim Square revolt lies in the fact that for the first time an Islamic people is fighting harshly against the governmental choices of administrative policy, on precise building and urban-environmental arrangements of the Premier and the majority party it represents. For the first time the unchangeable and indisputable monolith of the Koran is called into question. For the first time, the political supremacy of the Muslim religion over collective and social interests is put under check by the desire for cultural modernity. Going down the streets and defending from demolition the Gezi park in the heart of today's millennial Istanbul, aimed at making room for new religious and commemorative buildings of the Ottoman past, means protecting its identity as an evolved Western society and the birth of a renewed civic consciousness in the younger generations. Erdogan's harsh reactions to the critical positions that Europe has rightly expressed on the violence with which he is repressing the protest in the various Turkish cities are a sign of the weakness of the Premier of Ankara, who seems to have lost control of events. The risk is that the Turkish Government's action will only be channeled towards a dangerous drift of a suppressive-military type. This must be avoided at all costs. For these reasons, I believe it is appropriate that the Italian Government, as far as possible, through a meticulous and efficient international mediation action, through the institutions for this purpose provided for by the European diplomatic organizations, should undertake to identify appropriate solutions aimed at contemplating and guaranteeing all the opposing interests injured and protecting every inviolable right trampled on. The social tensions, first, and the clashes of the streets, then, seem to be children of this ideological crisis that is living in that country. It is on the aspect of the legal principles underlying respect for human rights that Europe can and must do something before a terrible civil war and an absurd carnage are achieved. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups and Senators Casini and Faithful]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u16	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened carefully to the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, although frankly, reading the newspapers, we could have learned more about it. We were disappointed by both the political content and the elusive action and the gloomy future vision. Today, in his information, Minister Bonino reaffirmed that the Turks are not Arabs and Taksim Square is not Tahrir Square. And, we add, it is certainly not Piazza San Pietro or Piazza Duomo, or place de la Concord or Piccadilly Circus. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We have always said this and we repeat it once again in this context: Turkey has absolutely nothing to do with Europe. It has nothing to do with culture. And not historically. And it is the Erdogan Government itself that does not recognize Europe. On this occasion too, the actions of the Farnesina, Madam Minister, have been evanescent. That is the case, Madam Minister, and it is not wrong if we tell the truth. We are also willing to acknowledge the benefit of the commitment, which is, however, cancelled by a foreign credibility that Italy has lost over time. We are no longer credible in India, where we have left two soldiers still unjustly imprisoned. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We are not in Libya, where our brilliant disengagement in favour of the interests of multinationals ended with the delivery of another piece of the southern Mediterranean into the hands of fundamentalist Islam. This is not the case in Israel, where we have had a "saw tooth" policy. We are no longer on the diplomatic profile in general, after the nasty figures of his predecessor and a diplomacy that - I regret to say - unfortunately today represents the shadow of what it was. By the way, how much does our gang-wrecked diplomatic representations abroad cost us? And how useful are they to the country today? To the person of Minister Bonino we recognize intellectual frankness and honesty. That's why we would have liked her to have told us what she really is. A few days ago Professor Sartori, commenting on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), argued that the Letta Government was one of the most gangherati in terms of the lack of competence among its ministers. We do not have that opinion of you, Minister. But we ask you not to get sucked in by the mediocrity of the choices that have characterized Italian foreign policy in recent years. In order to restore our country's prestige, we do not need an imperialist foreign policy, also because, even if we want to, the country does not have the resources, the money or even less the political determination. On the other hand, we need a foreign policy capable of defending Italian work by supporting the foreign trade of our industries and our companies, protecting them from the assault and unfair competition of libertarian economies and without the protection and respect of workers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Airola.]] We need a foreign policy that can say no to a Turkey which has nothing to do with our history and the European culture of freedom, all the more so in the light of this intolerable authoritarian turning point with evident fundamentalist colours. Turkey, let us not forget, is the example of a regime that in forty years has massacred tens of thousands of Kurds with impunity. Italy wants a fully democratic Turkey in Europe and membership of the EU can have a beneficial effect on Turkey. But we don't find ourselves in this vision. And certainly not with regard to Turkey's aspiration for democratic consolidation, which we all want, but rather with regard to the second part of its statement: these are not the times to think about what benefits Turkey can have from EU membership, but rather it is time to understand that the interests of Italians in Europe must come before those of the Turks! [[Applause from the Ln-Aut Group.]] It is a fact that Turkey's progress in adapting to the common European standards remains doubtful and modest, with particular regard to equal treatment for women, the role of the army, compliance with the rules laid down by the International Labour Organisation. Too little we have found in your words, Madam Minister, about these concepts. Any inclusive reasoning of Turkey in the EU is therefore today, even more than yesterday, unsustainable. Erdogan himself with his Muslim-Conservative Government is increasingly less authoritative and more authoritarian and is the mirror of Turkey's political distance from Europe. To the complaints received from Germany and the European Commission, Erdogan responded with a hard attack on the European Parliament, "guilty" for having denounced the fierce repression of the demonstrations of young Turks. "I do not recognise this European Parliament," said Erdogan, even attacking the legitimacy of the first democratic institution of the European Union. Today the streets of Istanbul are more like those of the Arab African capitals than those of a European capital. So, what to do? Do we have to address the issue of Europe's borders not on a geographical basis but on the grounds of supposed demands for economic or political stability? No, Mr President, no, Minister. We say no to this approach. Bringing unstable, democratic countries into the European Union does not automatically mean making them more democratic. And in any case, before Turkey enters the common European home, the EU must decide what it wants to do as a big person. The foreign policy of the Government regarding the enlargement of the borders of the European Union resembles that of the soft belly, which already takes shape in Italy through a written reception of everything and everyone, regardless of the real economic, social and cultural sustainability of the huge masses that press from the south of the Mediterranean towards our borders. Over the past few days, Madam Minister, I have read the opinion of a well-known commentator who was wondering about the government's conduct on foreign policy. I'm going to ask you the same questions today. We ask ourselves, Madam Minister, how is it possible that after the killing of Barbara De Anna and Captain Giuseppe La Rosa, fifty-third Italian military victim of Taliban terrorism, Italy does not decide to anticipate the withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] , all the more in the light of the incredible legitimacy that the United States has given to the Taliban, inviting them to return to power after being barefooted in 2001. Does it still make sense to stay in Afghanistan? How is it possible for the Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs to emerge as the leader of the pro-Turks in Europe, urging the green light to negotiate on Turkey's accession to the European Union, just when the violent repression of peaceful demonstrations ordered by Erdogan has so far resulted in the death of 3 demonstrators and about 8,000 wounded, while 11 other people have lost their lives and 59 are in serious condition? These questions arise from the real feeling that Italian foreign policy today does not count for anything and that the Government is not at all on the piece and that instead it is committing the remaining credibility of the country in anachronistic choices and out of touch with reality, as evidenced by the attitude of renewed consideration for Turkey's accession to the European Union. No, Madam Minister, we're not in! His brief information confirms that Italian foreign policy continues to remain marginal and inadequate compared to a plurality of problems, starting from the need to make it clear in Europe that it is necessary to put a precise end to the unsustainable policy of enlargement of the borders of the European Union to countries completely unrelated to the values of culture, history and European freedoms, which we must always defend! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This inadequacy of Italian foreign policy, Madam Minister, concerns us very much. In conclusion, Madam Minister, on the matter of priorities, we repeat: what are we waiting for to bring home our soldiers from Afghanistan? There is a lack of resources for the main social services in the municipalities and Italy continues to spend billions of euros to participate, moreover in a totally subordinate way, in foreign military operations that have lost in significance also for our main allies. We have been witnessing retreat announcements for too many years, while we continue to refinance unnecessary foreign missions, with a constant blood toll without justification. And don't talk about Italy's duty today! Here too we have done our part; now we think about our problems. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Rather, we have the dignity to put an end to this sacrifice of resources and lives. Once in a while, we make a choice in our interest, first, without acting, as usual, in a subordinate way to other international partners. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Puglia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u17	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the speech just made by my colleague from the North Candiani League, to whom I would like to make a joke: perhaps my colleagues from the North Lega were a little distracted when they were part of the Berlusconi Government! Indeed, this policy on Turkey rightly - I stress: rightly - started with the Berlusconi Government. And I believe that on Berlusconi and his foreign policy we can express many judgments, but on Turkey I fully share what has been an investment of confidence of that Government addressed with foresight to the future. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the years following the Berlusconi Governments there have been central-left governments which have not changed the approach towards Turkey. And today the Minister for Foreign Affairs has come in full continuity with those policies which (at least once let's face it among ourselves) have been a minimum common positive denominator of Italian foreign policy. In fact, in the abstract you may have also said the right things, because we are all horrified that Erdogan disowns the legitimacy of the European Parliament and attacks it in the vulgar way in which he attacked it; all of us consider the repression of the legitimate rights of demonstrators unacceptable. But we must all ask ourselves a question, which is the decisive question in the foreign policy of our own and other countries: does closing that door mean obtaining more security, more Europe, means safeguarding the interests of the West, of Europe, of Italy, or does it mean making an extraordinary act of political self-harm? It is an extraordinary act of political self-harm. And I am very pleased that the Minister has resisted the temptation to carry out that act, even with all the issues that are present to her. It is clear that the Minister knows, like us, that so many events in recent days are unacceptable and must be condemned by the Italian Parliament, but the Minister also knows that it is absolutely vital to keep that door open. The decisive phrase that Mr Bonino made, in my opinion, is this: true friends speak clearly. We are real friends of Turkey, we have shown this with a continuity of government policy over the years, and, precisely because we are true friends, we must speak clearly and say that there are two opposing demands: events are unacceptable, their dynamics are unacceptable, as they have manifested themselves; we must keep dialogue open. I would remind my most sceptical colleagues of the strategic importance of Turkey, which, with all the limitations of the case, is first and foremost a democracy: the elections take place, we win and we lose. Excuse me, but given the political area in which Turkey is located, frankly it does not seem to me to be a very indifferent detail. Secondly, Turkey is in NATO: we know what we are talking about, we know what the presence of Turkey in NATO means. Thirdly, Turkey is a bastion - on the merits there would be some reflection on Erdogan's latest policy choices - towards the explosion of Islamic fanaticism. Finally, Turkey is a very important trading partner for companies, for Italian entrepreneurs, for the Italian economy. It is clear that that of these hours is also a crisis of growth, a crisis of well-being; there is an explosion of the middle class that until twenty years ago was an indefinite being, that is, did not exist in Turkey, and this conflicts with a traditionalist approach from the religious point of view. On the merits there would be many reflections to be made: well-being and relationship with religion, very interesting issues (but perhaps it would be good in that case to have a seminar, rather than dealing with them in this debate so quickly). The governments met in Luxembourg and found a compromise formula: the postponement of Chapter 22 to autumn. Everyone is happy with this result. We have all understood what happened: the Turks are happy because they do not want us to go and review now, opening this chapter, on what was the unacceptable method that the Government used to repress; the Europeans, more attentive to rights, felt that, all in all, the postponement was positive because in this way an immediate confrontation is avoided. The reasons for contentment are exactly opposite, but this postponement, at the end of the day, was the most intelligent act that could be done, because on our part it means telling the Turks that if they continue like this it is not good because what is happening is unacceptable to our standards, and yet they remain the creators of their destiny: we do not close the doors to them, we do not do it today because it would be a mistake. Therefore, with this postponement of the negotiations, we call on the Turkish authorities to take responsibility. (at 10.29 a.m.) (Following CASINI). It is clear that, as the Minister said, we will have to discuss human rights, freedom and justice quickly: we cannot discount these chapters. Ladies and gentlemen, Taksim Square is not Tahrir Square: Minister Bonino said well and he did well to repeat it, because it is unfair to simplify this kind of thing. Then you say that it is not even Piazza San Pietro; yes, it is not Piazza San Pietro, it is not Piazza Duomo and it is not Piazza Maggiore di Bologna, but we all know that. Here we are in Istanbul: we know history, diversity and distance, and yet we have no interest in saying that those two squares, Taksim Square and Tahrir Square, are the same, because they are not. In conclusion, we are with the Government and for the continuity of this foreign policy. Of course, the chapter I leave to the imagination of those present is that I am convinced and sure that when the Minister of Foreign Affairs sits with the Turkish authorities, because he has a feeling of great attention to Turkey (which I personally share and of which I am involved), as a true friend will explain all the things that are not good for us (and there are many). [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, PdL and M5S groups).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u19	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u20	Madam President, Madam Minister, Turkey is a great country. The Turkish Republic created by Kemal Atatürk is now experiencing a great period: a period of great economic expansion and great growth. I will not mention the figures, which have already been mentioned in this House and which Mr Bonino also mentioned at the hearing at the Commissions. There are other aspects that I would like to mention, which certainly make this country an extremely important partner for Italy and for Europe. Its strategic position has made it an important member of NATO. Its Euro-Asian nature has led to this long and not yet completed negotiations for entry into the European Union: a troubled negotiation to the extent that Turkey has requested and obtained entry into the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. Therefore, it is not a line like the one previously stated by my colleague from the North League, but a completely different and much more significant one for us and for the foreign policy of the European Union, because it has opened a line of understanding to the East completely new and has shown, with the words of the Foreign Minister Davutoglu, that Turkey can guarantee itself of the autonomous margin of maneuvering in its position in the international chessboard. Turkey has developed a privileged relationship with the Turkish-speaking countries of the former Soviet Union, which are an important element in energy policies. It has also cultivated a privileged relationship with Muslim countries, especially those of Arabic language, where in the last thirty years these cultural relations have been intensified, with the foundation of schools. An exchange has been stepped up, which could certainly also be important for the policies of the Mediterranean and which has certainly led to great economic growth even in the Anatolian peninsula. A fundamental element for us - for Italy, for Europe and for our relations with Turkey - is a secular constituent charter: a secularism that has been strenuously defended by Kemalist politics and which still permeates especially the layers of the educated bourgeoisie. You rightly said, Madam Minister, that it is not an Arab spring: the one protesting in the park of Gezi is a cultured and intellectually advanced bourgeoisie, which knows languages, open to Europe and which feels European, despite Erdogan's efforts for a shift towards Islamization, even before the economy, rather than society. Therefore, Turkey is an important but also very delicate partner. That is why I would like to return for a moment to an aspect that is linked to the announcement that Chapter 22 will be opened in October. We must observe the timing of this announcement, which has been given at a particularly hot time, both because of the lack of dialogue between Erdogan and the open confrontation between the population and its representatives, and because of the fractures it opened within the AKP (the ruling party, Erdogan) and because of Erdogan's contemptuous statements against the repressing received by the European Parliament for the violence against demonstrators and the harsh and intransigent words. So we, like President Casini, wonder: what is the point of this announcement? Has Erdogan's policy been endorsed, at the very moment when it was contested more massively since the beginning of his political career, somehow endorsing his anti-democratic stance? Or, was it intended to give him, as he suggested earlier, a kind of warning, thus establishing a period of observation of his next moves? Or is it simply feared that the length of the years and the difficulty in bringing the European Union closer together with Turkey have finally pushed Turkey to move towards different lines and to ally itself with other international players? Or perhaps even more serious for the European Union - is it feared that this trial period, from here to October, means that once again, less than a month after the consequences of the Syrian crisis, Europe has had to see the inability to find shared positions for which long-term decisions are being taken and to delay decisions? Of course, a stable and democratic Turkey would have an important role to play in addressing key issues for Europe and the whole Mediterranean: trade, energy, environment, migration, but also security and conflict prevention. A stable and democratic Turkey could be a support to the democratisation process of the countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean. His secularism could be a strong signal against the tendency - which I have also heard in the words of colleagues - to represent conflicts in the Middle East as a clash of civilizations between the West and the Muslim world, thus hiding, under this pretext, the real causes, often linked to economic interests and certainly not to cultural differences. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] countries such as Syria and Turkey have been examples of coexistence and protection of minorities. A stable and democratic Turkey could be indicative of the fact that the values on which a future perspective of Europe is based do not correspond to religious beliefs but surpass them, they can ignore them, they can go ahead and they can be respect for human rights, regardless of that. Turkey's entry into the European Union is certainly the bearer of great changes, not only economic but also for the same identity. At this point, given that the subject is part of a debate unanimously held within the European Union on the mission, the profile of the European Union, I ask the Minister some questions. In the face of this complex picture, what does Italy intend to do? How do you intend to take on a role of great responsibility in the policies of the Mediterranean, since it is a historic vocation and a geographical position, which could actually be synergistically shared with a European Turkey? Madam Minister, we know that the credibility of foreign policy depends on the credibility of what is very fashionable to call the country system, so it is imperative that the question arises: Madam Minister, do you not think that it is essential to pretend that in the Council of Ministers, of which you are a member, those policies which make a country more credible in the eyes of the international community are pursued with force and not in words? I am referring to a serious and productive fight against corruption, tax evasion and avoidance, the promotion of research and culture, the enhancement of excellence, the support and affirmation of rights and freedom of information. As for the recent acts of violence perpetrated by the Turkish police against demonstrators, I would like to stress that this demonstration was born from a sit-in in Taksim Square, in the heart of the youngest and most modern European part, secular and projected towards the international dimension of that incredible city suspended between two continents. A demonstration in defense of a park, but actually in defense of a city that unbridled urban development would want to modify, better to say shape, without saving historical neighborhoods symbol of kemalist Turkey of the last century, such as Nisantasi, Osman Bey, Haydarpasa just to name a few. A reaction, finally, to the unbridled desire to leave a mark, to transform places in the reflection of a different system of values, in which the vulgar patacca of a shopping center disguised as a fake Ottoman barracks meets the desire for consumption of a country in enormous economic growth and paradoxically accompanies with the increasingly widespread prohibition of drinking alcohol. These are signs, examples of the political line that Prime Minister Erdogan increasingly wants to give, that right here, as mayor of this city, has begun to show insufferance for the secular substance of the Constitution. Its policy has proved itself on this occasion throughout its authoritarian dimension, determined to impose conservative values and lifestyles on the rest of Turkish society. So the answer has finally arrived. These voices were unheard by Erdogan with arrogance and, indeed, faced with unheard of violence, and this has been done in terms of precise indications, which has provoked the explosion of tension, denouncing and canceling the attempts of a conciliatory attitude of President Gül and even of Deputy Prime Minister Arinç. Now, it is true that this is not an Arab spring and it is good to open up to positively influence Turkey and monitoring the situation, but there is a part of Turkey and of Turks who are calling for a boost towards a greater affirmation of a more democratic, freer, more respectful reality also of the encounter with dissent. Madam Minister, I believe that we owe Turkey a clear position, above all out of respect for this part of the Turkish people. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Gambaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zanettin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u22	Madam President, Mrs Bonino, I immediately declare that I fully agree with the content of your report and with the intervention of President Casini, who has certainly given an absolutely acceptable picture. It must be pointed out that Turkey has been a strategic partner of the Western side for decades, in its irreplaceable role as a hinge between Europe and Asia. It should be remembered that in all the conflicts of the last 60 years Turkey has been at our side, for example during the Cold War, in the first and second Gulf Wars. She has long been allied with Israel. It is a democratic republic, whose constitutional principles, based on enlightened secularism, were affirmed by Kemal Atatürk in the aftermath of the fall of the Ottoman Empire. Moreover, in recent years Turkey has enjoyed absolutely extraordinary stability and economic growth and many of our companies have constituted important and fruitful joint ventures. I remember Unicredit and Barilla, but many more could be mentioned. For these reasons, those who speak have always argued that Turkey's entry into the European Union should be encouraged and that the vetoes and reservations of so much North European and even Italian public opinion should be overcome with momentum. It was and remains too important, from the strategic, economic, geopolitical and also cultural point of view, to keep this extraordinary country linked to the western deployment. Those who speak can therefore, in effect, be regarded as a friend of Turkey. That said, it is undeniable, however, that Turkey in recent years has suffered, like many countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean, a dangerous regression and involution. The Party for Justice and Government Development of Prime Minister Erdogan, who has been in power for more than ten years, which has declared itself a moderate Islamic, has actually repudiated Kemal Atatürk's enlightened legacy and has favoured a re-Islamisation of Turkish institutions: I think, for example, of the re-introduction of the veil for women in public offices, but there are other aspects that have been mentioned in this House. Persecution and cultural discrimination have also suffered the Christian minority in recent years. To this cultural and civil backwardness, nationalist authoritarianism has reacted to the youngest and culturally most evolved fringes of Turkish society, which have given rise to demonstrations in Taksim Square, Istanbul, and in the main cities. We have witnessed a violent repression of these demonstrations. It is therefore necessary to denounce here, without whether or not, the unreasonable and disproportionate use of force by the Turkish Government towards demonstrators. All my human and political solidarity goes to the young people who have been blinded by tear gas, the hundreds or thousands of wounded, to the lawyers who have been arrested for making available to the imprisoned. These are excesses that must be stigmatized and denounced with the utmost firmness. And this can be done by Italy, Madam Minister, with the authority that derives from the fact that it has always been a friendly nation of Turkey, with particularly cordial and fruitful bilateral relations, developed also in recent years of the Berlusconi Government, as recalled by President Casini. For once, Madam Minister, we can really say, with good reason, that our role allows us to carry out an action of mediation and stimulus to democratic dialogue, with greater credibility and effectiveness than other countries, perhaps even stronger economically than us. Certainly - it must be acknowledged - President Erdogan's bold attitude does not help to relax the atmosphere. In response to a joint resolution by the European Parliament condemning the violent repression of demonstrations, Erdogan stated that he did not recognise any decision taken by the European Parliament on Turkey. Among other things, the resolution that had been adopted was quite bland and was limited to expressing concern about the disproportionate use of force and to express fears about the deterioration of press freedom. Having said that, clearly and clearly, I think it is necessary to reiterate that we remain friends and allies of Turkey. So our country has done well to encourage the reopening in October of the negotiations for its accession to the European Union. In this context, Turkey must be helped to better protect civil rights and religious minorities. But woe to isolate it, pushing it towards Islamism and extremism! We really can't let that happen. After the errors of evaluation that the western side has committed in Libya and Egypt and that still risks to commit in Syria, Countries where the so-called Arab Springs have produced only chaos, anarchy and violence, where today our Christian brothers and bourgeois classes now regret without hesitation the ancien régime and where the only ones to exult are the Salafists and the jihadists, it must be recognized that only dialogue and negotiation bring good results, not the rips and accelerations of the political processes. The stability of the southern Mediterranean quadrant inevitably passes through a strong role of Turkey, which must continue to find stable and reliable partners in our country and in the European Union, while ensuring democracy and economic development. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tonini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much for your words. The Americans would say, thank you for your leadership. It is a true example of leadership the line that thanks to you the Italian Government has taken in this passage so delicate and so difficult; it has been an act of leadership to say in recent days, even challenging the unpopularity of the moment, that Taksim Square is not Tahrir Square, but remains a true and fair fact, and it is therefore right to say so, also because we all feel the need, in politics in general and in foreign policy in a particular way, for clear and long-term reference points. We cannot make politics in general and foreign policy in a particular way without fixed stars, without clear reference points, otherwise we end up drifting emotionally, taking even colossal crabs and thus making disasters at national and even more international political level. This does not mean that politics in general and even foreign politics must not be overwhelmed by emotions. We have all felt strong emotions in seeing the images of Taksim Square: a feeling of reprobation, condemnation, indignation at the serious abuses of force that have been perpetrated, and that we can only condemn with great firmness, and concern, for the risk of the democratic situation in Turkey being in progress. You said a right word, to be sculpted: democracy is not only winning the elections, but it is first and foremost, before the elections, respect for minorities. There are so many dictatorships that won the election, but there is no dictatorship that respects minorities. The difference between dictatorship and democracy is respect for minorities. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI]] The political point remains what you have said and which we fully agree with, namely that these risks of Turkey's involution were not by chance coincident with the weakening of the prospect of Turkey's integration into Europe. The reverse is also true: the only way to give a clear, sure and reliable structure and perspective to a path of democratic and liberal development in Turkey can only be to relaunch the European perspective. For this reason, I would like to thank our Government and, in particular, Mrs Bonino, who has fought with great determination in Europe to reopen this door. Allow me to say that it is also the mutual. In fact, as was said yesterday in the Foreign Affairs Committee with Deputy Minister Dassu, the enlargement policy was basically the biggest, perhaps we could say the only, but still the only major success case of the common foreign policy at European level. When we implement intergovernmental policy and move in a scattered way, we are making great figures at international level, whereas when Europe is able to speak with a clear and united perspective it produces great results. Let us think of the historical results achieved in the Balkans. A few years ago the Balkans were the scene of one of the greatest tragedies between the twentieth century and the thirteenth century, with ethnic cleansing. We have had to witness the emergence of ethnic cleansing in the heart of Europe. In a few days, instead, we will celebrate Croatia's entry into the European Union, with the prospect, to which the Minister is working with great determination, of the entry of Serbia and Kosovo, countries that have been the scene of massacres and that today have the prospect of entering Europe. I would also like to say that, when we stopped looking at Turkey with interest, attention, generosity and openness, this will also be a case, a coincidence when the prospect of joining the European Union for Turkey became pale, at the same time the European Union's effort to go beyond national selfishness has emerged. Only when Europe opens up and knows how to propose its unifying perspective to the world is it strong and is also capable of producing results in other lands, such as the decisive and strategic ones of economic union. I think this is the perspective that the government is working on. I entirely agree with what President Casini has just said, namely that the policy towards Turkey is an element of unity in Parliament. We will be able to discuss the birthplaces (I do not think Romano Prodi learned from Berlusconi the crucialness of Turkey, but everyone has their own reconstructions in this regard), but the fundamental aspect is that this policy towards Turkey, of firmness and openness at the same time, is the unifying element of our Parliament and is, at this moment, a key point in the foreign policy of the Government. We believe that this can for a long time remain one of the key points of a common foreign policy and also of the converging bipolarism that we hope to return to being the turning point of our political system when this phase has reached, as President Napolitano continues to wish, its results of strengthening our democratic perspective. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u25	I thank the Minister for his willingness. I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u28	VACCIANO (M5S). Madam President, I rise to express the solidarity of the 5 Star Movement to the mayor of Pomezia Fabio Fucci, to the deputy mayor Elisabetta Serra and to the urban vigilante who yesterday were attacked by kicks and punches in the square of that city by those who the media have called unsatisfied street vendors from the denied authorization to set up a market in Torvaianica. Too bad that one of the aggressors, Walter Fedele, was also mayor of the same city in the nineties, therefore well aware of the role and responsibility of a first citizen. We, as on every occasion, strongly condemn violence against anyone who is being exercised, but we are not convinced that on this occasion such violence is simply the result of exasperation against a representative of the institutions (representing that, it is worth remembering, he took office the first time ever about ten days ago and that he was previously a member of the minority). We fear it is a real intimidating act, against an exponent of the Movement who has already received threats in the past from an adviser from other political parties. So let us reiterate our solidarity and closeness to the people who are victims of this unfortunate incident and ask the competent authorities to shed some light on the whole story. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u29	I think it is absolutely serious and appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u30	Madam President, on 27 June 1980, at 8.58 p.m., the control tower in Ciampino lost track of the DC9 Itavia, with 77 passengers on board, of which - if I recall correctly - ten children and four crew members. (Brusio. Some senators come out of the Chamber). Evidently the massacre of Ustica is not important and it is not important to stop and commemorate the victims. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Wait a minute, Senator Montevecchi. Please, colleagues. Montevecchi (M5S). Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome. Montevecchi (M5S). My "thank you" was ironic, of course. The plane had left Bologna and was flying to Sicily. After 33 years the family members of the victims and all of us citizens are still waiting to see the curtain of omerta fall and to see the opacity lightened and the shadows that still weigh unbearably on this tragedy disappear and hinder the attainment of the truth. Of course, we cannot always get to the truth, but we must always respect the tension to the truth, because we think that, in a country like Italy, which professes to be democratic and civil, we must always fight for the conquest of truth. This is nothing more than a struggle to obtain and protect the right to justice. In commemorating the massacre of Ustica, we of the 5 Star Movement want to remember one by one the 81 victims, begging colleagues to stand up and listen silently to names, not only as a sign of respect, but also as an assumption of responsibility: to do everything necessary to ensure justice and truth. ( [[The Senators of the M5S Group stand up).]] And now I read to one by one the names of these 81 people, because to each of them corresponds a family, a family that is still waiting for justice and truth. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House.]] DIVINE (LN-Aut). It would be up to the Presidency, however, to intervene in these situations. GIOVANARDI (PdL). The session's over. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let him talk!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u31	It would actually be up to the Presidency to do this. I think it would have been helpful to say so earlier, so the Presidency would have made the appeal. I believe that all of my colleagues would have stayed in this Chamber. I am saying that for this reason. I therefore propose, if you agree, that we now observe a minute's silence and remember the victims at the beginning of today's afternoon sitting. [[Applause.]] I therefore call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]] Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u34	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Madam President, I fully agree with the need to find out the truth. I inform the Assembly that the General Court of the State has asked for the revocation, by mistake of fact, of the judgment handed down in civil court by the Court of Cassation, of which many have spoken, which has contradicted the judgment pronounced in criminal proceedings. In fact, it has turned out - this is what has been demonstrated together with the various technical committees and, if there is a debate today, I will say - that the plane has fallen for a bomb placed on board. This judgment is the result of the work of an attorney, an aggregate honorary judge, who wrote a judgment that then, passing through the various degrees of judgment, arrived up to the Supreme Court, totally contradicting the decision taken by the Supreme Court itself in criminal proceedings. Simply read the tens of thousands of pages concerning the criminal trial, with the absolution of the generals, and what the commission of inquiry composed of the greatest international experts, who explained by thread and by sign how the plane fell for a bomb placed on board and like all the reconstructions of science fiction, who cheated the collective imagination - the aerial battle, the missile - are only in the head of the journalists who have enriched themselves through these science fiction books. If we want to talk about the truth, then let us have a debate, in which I will read what was written in the criminal sentence, in order to demonstrate, traced by trace, how those said are total lies, built to cheat public opinion. Maybe we could also look at Libya and those who have already admitted to the Lockerbie case and the French plane that had fallen in Sudan that they had placed the bombs on board and that they had thus dropped the planes. I am therefore absolutely willing to address this issue, but I ask the Presidency that, if we want to commemorate the victims, we do so at a time when the House is meeting and all our colleagues are present, and not in an extemporaneous way, when we ask for the floor and speak for three minutes once the items on the agenda of the sitting are exhausted. It is not dignified for this House or for the victims either. ENDRIZZI (M5S). But the House is still meeting! Montevecchi (M5S). Senator Giovanardi, we listened silently to you. I would therefore urge you to remain silent when someone speaks. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u37	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank my colleague, Mrs Montevecchi, for reminding the House of the tragic anniversary of the massacre in Ustica. As you know, there are many hypotheses about this massacre, which have also animated a very heated debate over the course of these years. However, we are faced with one of the great not glorious mysteries of our country. It is a mystery that accompanies others and the list would be almost as long as that of the victims of the massacre of Ustica, starting from the massacre of Piazza Fontana and following. I believe, however, that today she has done well to ask the House for a moment of reflection, silence and respect in the face of a massacre that has left a country completely banned, just as it has left a city like Bologna completely banned, modifying much of our own feeling of respect for democracy. I thank you, therefore, for what has been done today and, if we can hear the names of the victims of this massacre again, it will be a further homage. I would therefore propose, Madam President, given what you have had the goodness to do (and I think it is right that certain things should be done with the necessary notice and with the involvement of the House, as it must be), that on the massacre of Ustica the Presidency, perhaps not immediately, but at a later time, allows us to carry out a debate, a debate that starts from the recognition of this right initiative that Mr Montevecchi has taken and that I, once again, thank you. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u40	CARRARO (PdL). Madam President, first of all, I would like to point out that I learned from the media this morning that the person who represents national unity, namely the President of the Republic, has sent a message to the victims' relatives, hoping that clarity will be made. This means that our President acknowledges that there is something unclear, and the President of the Republic represents us all. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Parenti]] I would also like to point out that questions are scheduled on the agenda for the afternoon sitting and that, therefore, those who are not among the signatories cannot speak. Among other things, I, together with representatives of the 5 Star Movement and other senators, will be engaged in a meeting of the 6th and 11th Commissions in the afternoon, which must examine an important measure that will arrive in the Chamber next week. I apologize right now, so if I'm not there. In any case, I too believe that we should remember the names of the victims today, when the anniversary of the massacre is celebrated, but not in a sitting devoted to the holding of questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u43	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are well aware of the embarrassment that the Presidency feels in the face of certain situations. However, we would like to highlight one fact. Each senator is the bearer of particular or sectoral knowledge. Given that we have a great deal of respect for the victims who have fallen on all occasions, whether they are massacres, natural disasters or anything else, I believe that, allowing every senator to intervene, albeit at the end of the sitting, on situations which, moreover, would deserve a different attention objectively, the order is subverted, since every senator would replace the Presidency in the management of the proceedings of the House. I therefore ask you to ensure that in all these situations a certain formality is respected, not out of irreverence or lack of respect for the subject that is being proposed, but in order to guarantee a minimum of dignity in the conduct of the work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u44	I would stress that the minute of silence was proposed by the Presidency, reflecting on what has been said. I would also like to remind you that, in announcing to the Presidency the speeches at the end of the sitting, for which three minutes are allowed, it is also necessary to state what the subject is. I say this to restore the conditions between us. Since other speeches have been added, I think I should give the floor again for one minute to those who are asking to speak. The Presidency will then come forward with a proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u47	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I regret the misunderstanding that has taken place, because our responsible in this House, in pointing out my speech at the end of the sitting, has also taken care to point out the content of the speech. We are sorry, therefore, and we regret that we are being blamed for a lack of serious timing, the Presidency, which did not remember and commemorate this massacre that was to be remembered and commemorated at the beginning of the sitting. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Sangalli]] Therefore, we reject to the sender the accusation of a lack of knowledge of procedures, having complied with the procedure to the letter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u50	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I would like to see some comments recorded in the report, some of which have already been made by Senator Montevecchi. Firstly, I would like to point out that perhaps there was no need to give notice, because this has happened for 33 years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It should have been well known to all, therefore, one of the fundamental topics of this day. I would also like to emphasise in particular the fact that on this occasion too we have given great importance to the presence of the 5 Star Movement in this House and in the Chamber of Deputies, because we are bringing back the debate on the right tracks. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u51	The Presidency's proposal at this point is to entrust the Conference of Leaders with an assessment of how to remember the victims of the Ustica massacre. The sitting is suspended and will resume at the end of the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups, convened at 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended at 11.10 a.m. and resumed at 13.08 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u52	The session is resumed. The Conference of Leaders approved changes and additions to the current timetable, as well as the new timetable for work until 11 July. During this afternoon's Question Time session, at 4 p.m., with direct television broadcast, the Minister of the Environment will answer questions about hydrogeological failure and waste management. Next week, the Assembly will meet again from Tuesday morning, 2 July, at 11 am for the examination of the decree-law on energy efficiency and tax measures as well as for the joint discussion of the bill of European delegation 2013, the European Law 2013 and related reports on Italy's participation in the European Union. In addition, ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Commission will be examined. During the general discussions of the measures referred to above, the first standing Commission is authorised to meet for the examination of the draft constitutional law establishing the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms. With regard to the week after next week, starting on Monday afternoon, July 8, the calendar provides, in addition to the possible follow-up of the unfinished topics, the examination of the aforementioned constitutional bill. Motions will also be discussed on Italy's participation in the project of the military aircraft F35, as well as the decree-law on the IMU and the social shock absorbers, already approved in the Chamber of Deputies, where concluded by the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u53	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting this morning with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's proceedings for the months May, June and July 2013: - Document LXXXVII, n. 1 - Consumative report on the participation of Italy in the European Union for the year 2012 - Drawing of Constitutional Law n. 813 - Establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms (First Resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u54	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly until 11 July 2013: [[Thursday, June 27 pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for the Environment, protection of the territory and the sea on hydrogeological failure and waste management]] [[Tuesday 2 July ant. h. 11-13 - Drawing of Law No. 783 - Decree-Law No. 63, on energy efficiency and tax measures (Presented to the Senate - expires on 4 August) " " pom. h. 16,30-20 - Draft law n. 587 - European delegation law 2013 (final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Draft law n. 588 - European law 2013 - Doc. LXXXVII- bis, point 1 - Programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2013 - Doc. LXXXVII, n. 1 - Consumative report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2012 Wednesday 3 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 4 " ant. h. 9,30-14 - Ratifications of international agreements Thursday 4 July pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to bill No 783 (Decree-Law on energy efficiency and tax measures) will have to be tabled by 12 noon on Friday 28 June. Amendments to draft law No 587 (European delegation law 2013) and No 588 (European law 2013) should be tabled no later than 12 noon on Monday 1 July. [[Monday, July 8 pom. h. 17-20 - Eventually followed unconcluded arguments - Drawing of constitutional law n. 813 - Establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms (First Resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Motions on the participation of Italy in the draft of the plane F35 - Drawing of law n. 843 - Decree-Law n. 54, in the matter of IMU and social shock absorbers (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 20 July) (Ove concluded by the Commissions) Tuesday 9 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Wednesday 10 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 11 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 11 July pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to Constitutional Bill No 813 (Institution of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Monday 8 July. The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 843 (Decree-Law No 54 on IMUs and Social Shock Absorbers) will be fixed in relation to the progress of the work of the Commissions. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 783 (Decree-Law No 63, energy efficiency and tax measures) (8 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 43' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' Mixed 24' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for the joint discussion of draft laws n. 587 (Law of European Delegation 2013), n. 588 (European Law 2013) and Doc. LXXXVII- bis (Programme Report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2013) and LXXXVII, No 1 (Consuming Report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2012) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1h. 38' PdL 1h. 27' M5S 1 h. SCP 40' LN-Aut 37' Mixed 34' GAL 33' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 843 (Decree-Law No 54 on IMUs and social shock absorbers) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 43' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' Mixed 24' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-52.ana.u55	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.10 a.m.
