ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) on issues relating to the implementation profiles of the revision of the national military instrument and the European defence policy, to which Senator Mauro will respond. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on. Let us therefore turn to questions on issues relating to the implementation profiles of the revision of the national military instrument. The senators have the right to address their questions to the Minister of Defence for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u6	Mr Pegorer (PD). The delegation law n. 244 approved in December 2012 aims to promote a significant revision and restructuring of the national military instrument. The objective of this process, which has been repeated several times over the past few months in Parliament and also on many occasions of public debate, is to define a system of financial sustainability, but which meets the necessary quality and operational requirements, and which also knows how to enhance the human factor and maintain a technological level that allows our country to contribute to the desired European integrated operational structures, within a framework of common defence policy. I remember in particular that, from here to 2024, a reduction in military personnel is expected, bringing it to 150,000 units, compared to the current forecasts and situations in fact, and to 170,000 already from January 2016. It is also expected a significant contraction of the same civil staff of the Ministry, with the forecast of a staff of 20,000 units compared to the current 30,000. It is proposed, again, a deep organizational reorganization, previewing participations of suppression and amalgamation of operating structures, logistic, formative and territorial, in an interforce perspective. In particular with regard to this specific aspect of the reform, a constant and continuous relationship with the territorial realities concerned is essential, also in order to promote an informed and participated debate. That said, Minister, it is quite clear that this important process now awaits, in order to be fully initiated, the opening of a dialogue between the Government and Parliament with the comparison of the implementing decrees. I therefore ask you, with regard to two decrees which have already been approved by the Council of Ministers, particularly those concerning staff, whether they are already under study or in the process of preparing the subsequent implementing measures. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please conclude, Senator Pegorer, because we have very tight times today. Mr Pegorer (PD). Of course, ma'am. I would also like to ask you, Minister, when you think that the planned parliamentary debate can take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u9	PICCINELLI (PdL). Minister, Law No 244 of 31 December 2012, approved in the last legislature, provides for a thorough revision of our military instrument in order to create a system of defence of high quality and technology, but adapting it to the resources available, in particular reducing the staff of military and civil personnel, also according to the European defence model: a revision, therefore, in a reductive sense of structures and bodies imposed by the economic situation of public finances. The aforementioned law has entrusted to one or more legislative decrees the definition of the regulatory actions necessary to achieve the objectives indicated above. It is an important reform, which must now be completed in the dialogue between the Government and Parliament. In the midst of the approval of the decrees, I ask you, Minister, at what stage is the process of reducing the staff of the Defense.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u12	BATTIST (M5S). Minister, nine months after the approval of the delegation law for the revision of the military instrument, the 5 Star Movement is very interested in knowing the Government's intentions about some specific areas. In relation to the exploitation and disposal, as well as the implementation of the multi-annual programme of service accommodation, we would like to see the exploitation not become a counter-productive disposal for the State and valorizing only the financial interests of the usual speculators with knowledge from the high authorities of the State. Suffice it to mention the previous securitisation programmes. We would like to know, then, when and in what way will the program for service accommodation be lighted up, aimed at providing that dignified accommodation that tens of thousands of soldiers have long been denied. We would also like to see whether and how the progress criterion of military personnel will be changed, with particular regard to the realignment of the careers of personnel belonging to the role of the marshals. The 5 Star Movement, Minister, would then like to know whether, among the many decrees expected, there will be space for the long-standing problem relating to the supplementary provision of volunteers in the fixed stop. Finally, but no less important, we would like to know whether and how, in the implementation of the reordering of military health, very important issues, such as the recognition due to the deceased military or still suffering from the adverse effects caused by the erroneous injection of vaccines, can finally be answered. Precisely during the adoption of the bill of delegation for the revision of the military instrument that we are debating today, in the Senate the Government accepted the agenda G2.207, which committed it - and it has been ten months - to start a review of this case-law to finally resolve the issue mentioned: 3,600 cases that await justice from a State which, in this case, is represented by you, Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u15	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Minister, the revision of the military instrument is in the direction of a profound change in the defence system, introducing dynamics for the simplification and rationalization that the sector has long needed. Specifically, I think it is interesting to be able to focus on the process of disposal of the assets of the Defense, since at the moment the implementation profiles according to the norm are still unclear, also in view of the fact that the simplifications of the procedures for the disposal and the exchange of unused military buildings represent one of the areas of intervention defined in the delegation and, above all, in the light of the delays that have occurred on this side. I refer, in particular, to the withdrawal by the previous Government of the procedure of relying on land and barracks to the real estate funds that had been foreseen by the spending review, without neglecting the strand of intervention on the side of the managements of the housing of the Defense and the failure to implement the procedures of alienation provided for by the new military code. In fact, it would have been appropriate to value the existing assets through the alienation of part of it to the current users and the reinvestment of the profits by the Ministry of Defence, taking further account of the renewed role of the Defense Services SpA for the alienation, the management and the administration of the property owned by the State, pursuant to Article 35 of the so-called decree simplifications. I would therefore ask you, Minister, how the programme for the disposal of defence assets is evolving and whether agreements have been drawn up with the other institutions on this side, as well as what the timing of this project might be.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u18	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, I would like to touch on an apparently minor aspect of the matter, namely the shortage of military personnel on the ground. Val di Fassa is one of the valleys of Trentino with the highest tourist vocation; never criminal phenomena had happened in that place before the summer of 2013. This year, between late August and early September, there were episodes never seen before: 14 robbed hotels, other situations accidentally foiled, robbed, etc. The presence of a criminal association that operated on the spot has been established. These resorts are considered by tourists to be destinations of relaxation and rest, and what is accessing has negative implications for the whole local economy. From the data we hired, in the Carabinieri stations there is a shortage of staff of 27 units. Tourist presences in this valley quintuplicate even the presence of normal residents; the population is strongly alarmed, and so the tour operators. Minister, I would ask you to strengthen in these cases the presence of soldiers at the stations of the Carabinieri, both in Val di Fassa and in the company of Cavalese, which, as I repeat, are lacking of 27 units, in order to give an immediate response to what happened and finally to stop the introduction of criminal organizations in a territory that, fortunately, is still uncontaminated by these phenomena.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u21	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, Minister, I would like to raise the question of the progressive disposal of the shooting and training polygons of Capo Teulada and Capo Frasca, also in the light of the outcome of the parliamentary committee of inquiry into depleted uranium, which during the previous parliamentary term ended its work by imposing precisely this outcome, as well as the redevelopment, scaling and re-routing of the Poligo interforze del Salto di Quirra. In particular, I would like to ask you, Minister, what initiatives the Ministry intends to take to ensure that the Coordination of Municipalities subject to military servitudes involving these polygons, established at the Cagliari Prefecture in July 2012, is convened and made aware of the initiatives that the Minister and the Ministry themselves intend to take on, in particular, by reason of a redevelopment and conversion of the Poligo interforze del Salto di Quirra, in order to develop complementary civil activities, replacing military activities that are no longer sustainable. You are certainly informed about the results of the investigations that the judiciary of the Ogliastra area has carried out in the past months with accuracy and great commitment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Minister for Defence, Senator Mauro.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u22	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the senators for the questions they have asked me, and I respond very directly and immediately, in accordance with the timing of the parliamentary debate. The decrees implementing the law n. 244 of 2012, approved without recourse to the instrument of the vote of confidence but through a process shared in the last legislature, were brought to the Council of Ministers on 9 August. Today, the unified Conference on one of the two instruments, that is to say the one concerning the observations relating to staff, is under way; therefore, from the next few weeks - it has already been communicated to the Commissions of merit both of the House and of the Senate - will begin the examination in Parliament. It is an examination which, while of course having to maintain the strict timing of the approval of the delegation, I expect to be thorough and far from formal. I am the one who urges the parliamentary committees in this sense, precisely because the purpose of this law is to give the country a military instrument able to respond to the needs and security needs of our country, to the role that our country embodies within the political alliances to which it belongs, in particular of the Euro-Mediterranean scenario and, even more, to the problem of the solutions to be opposed to the contradictions, unfortunately present, in the management of a sector of public life. Let us now come to the specific questions that have been asked. I apologize if from time to time you will have to wait a few seconds, but, since there are many questions, the organization of the material is not easy. As far as the reduction of defence personnel is concerned, as is well known, the objective (shared by the Parliament itself during the approval of the delegation law) is to increase from 190,000 to 150,000 people in the defence system. However, the existence of the provisions arising from the spending review and the parliamentary examination of the legislative decrees deriving from Law No 244 of 2012 run parallel to the implementation of this objective. From the point of view of the military personnel of Army, Marina and Aeronautica, in order to reach the staff to 170,000 units on 1 January 2016, with a cut of 20,000 units, pairs to 10,5 percent, the following measures have been made: reduction of 20 percent of the recruitments, attested on approximately 16,000 units per year; reduction of the staff of the officers and of the military leaders for the year 2013 previewed in the decree of the President of the Republic on the spending review; reduction, with ministerial decree in course of finalization, of the staff of the officers and the military executives for the year 2014. In addition, in parallel with the reduction of the staff, a consequent contraction of the promotions to the higher degrees, in relation to the performance of the roles and in order to reach the new cycles of promotion identified from the spending review for the year 2016. In terms of stocks, the situation has evolved, taking into account the draft budget bill 2014-2016 being formalised, up to 174,900 units of military personnel in 2016 (i.e. less 5,370) and 28,179 units of civilian personnel in 2016 (i.e. less 2,069). Coming then to the requests made by my fellow Baptist, I would like to express in the premise a sincere appreciation for the concerns expressed by the same person regarding the implementation of the multiannual programme of defence service accommodations. On the merits of this question, to summarize briefly the modalities through which the aforementioned program will be articulated, I note that, in the face of a planned need of housing for the Defense pairs to approximately 51,000 units, the assets available today is 18,447 housing, of which about 5,000 held by users with the license expired and, of these, about 3,000 held by users not falling within the bands of protection established by the ministerial decree of annual management of the housing assets (families with income not exceeding approximately 40,000 euros or with dependent family people with disabilities). This place, I must emphasize that the Dicastery, having first to protect the staff in service to which functionally the housing in question are destined, has promoted an innovative strategy that, through a net cut compared to the past, leads to the formulation in the medium and long term of a housing policy on a national scale and interforces and, in the immediate, to recover, with targeted extraordinary assignments, that part of assets not used for previous maintenance deficiencies and to promote the housing policy that is synthesized in the following points. Firstly, with the ordinary budget funds, the objective of adapting housing to the needs of staff at the places of employment must be pursued and pursued; to this end, the Defense supports sector planning compatible with the resources available. Second, with the mechanism of the barters of the land and of the structures identified for the disposal, without any specific disbursement from the ordinary budget and according to the agreements of program with the territory, will be realized some types of housing of service near the centers that in the medium and long period will always remain functional and indispensable for the Defense. Thirdly, in areas of new acquisition, on the basis of agreements with private individuals and territorial authorities, or on areas of possible disposal, identified and offered to the market of potential developers (private or cooperatives made up of defence personnel), so-called housing in ownership and redemption are being built. I then come to the question of the problems arising from the use of vaccines. I immediately specify that the interventions to be carried out on the structure of the Military Health Service, referred to in article 5 of the delegated law, complete a process of reordering which concerned military health and which was started already in 2012, in order to increase the efficiency of the structures in relation to the reduction of the available resources and to facilitate a greater interaction with the National Health Service. To date, the hypothesis that cases of disease and death are related to the administration of vaccines seems sustainable only because of a point of view that has required technical-scientific insights, as well as ethical-deontological. The methods of administration have always been consistent with the principles of good vaccination practice and the recommendations of international organisations, which allow for the simultaneous administration of non-living vaccines or in combination with live vaccines provided that they are in different locations, while indicating a period of at least four weeks between inoculations of live vaccines when not administered at the same time. In particular, the schedule of vaccinations and prophylaxis, subject to prior ratification by the Higher Health Council, the highest national consultative body and decision-making body in this field, explains the application of immunoprofilattic regimes (the vaccination schedule), the organisation and precautions before and during vaccination sessions, as well as the periodicity of recall and/or interruption of vaccination cycles. Vaccines acquired and used by the administration are all medicines that are regularly authorised to trade and have an individual card present in the packs containing indications, contraindications and adverse events or side effects, in addition to the authorised composition. As explained by Dr. Salmaso of the Higher Institute of Health at the hearing of 18 May 2011 at the third parliamentary committee of inquiry chaired by Senator Costa, the vaccines administered to military personnel are not different from those produced for the generality of the population and are the same that, in the case of compulsory vaccinations, are administered to children, only after carrying out very stringent checks, carried out on the basis of centralised procedures at European level. Of course - and this applies to vaccines as well as to every drug and every biologically active foreign substance introduced into the body - there is no absolute and unequivocal guarantee that this substance is harmless, nor are there any technical methods of preliminary investigation that can ensure such postulated incucucuity. The hypothesis of a possible association between vaccinations and cancers of the haematopoietic system has been deepened in scientific terms by the Higher Institute of Health - concerned by the Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Policy - which has extensively revised its international scientific literature, from which it has emerged that very few studies have been carried out, whose overall results are not consistent and the evidence is inconsistent. I can assure you, however, that the issue of the alleged harmfulness of vaccines administered to our military, for a long time to the attention of the Defense, is considered by me of absolute importance and that continuing the investigations with total openness and transparency is an absolute priority so that definitive certainty can be reached in the interests of the personnel involved, their families and the institution. [[Recalls of the Presidency.]] Mr President, having listened to your calls, I would like to ask you and the House, if possible, to complete my speech and respond to all the questions raised.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u23	Unfortunately, this procedure is very short-lived. We therefore appeal to your ability to be extremely brief; otherwise we will take time off from the next questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u24	Mr MAURO, Minister for Defence. Good. With regard to the questions asked by Senator Uras, I would like to point out - perhaps it can be useful for the comparison that continues - that, at the request of the Defence Commission of the House, I intended to proceed with the finalisation of a national conference on military servitudes. This conference will take place in June and will have key milestones in the key places of the comparison related to the burdens imposed by military servitudes (Sardinia, Friuli and other regions). I therefore believe that we will have plenty of time to unravel what you have requested. As far as Senator Divina is concerned, I read telegraphically that the Carabinieri's weapon, despite the reduced levels of assumption resulting from the well-known regulatory measures concerning the partial blockage of turnover, has strengthened with 138 organic units some stations, including those related to the Carabinieri legion of Trentino-Alto Adige. It should also be remembered that for over 57 percent of the population the Carabinieri stations are the only police garrison.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u27	Mr Pegorer (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his report on the state of implementation of the delegation law and, in particular, on the procedure concerning certain draft legislative decrees. In any case, I would like to reiterate, in the light of your assurances, the need for the planned parliamentary debate on individual measures to be launched as soon as possible. The complexity and delicacy of this issue give Parliament the particular responsibility of any decision on this matter, given the fact that there is a strong attention to these measures from the public and the military personnel concerned. After all, everyone knows how much is being followed in our country about the issues that concern the Defense.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u30	PICCINELLI (PdL). Madam President, I believe the Minister's answer is comprehensive. I agree with my colleague Mr Pegorer, because I believe that the parliamentary debate is fundamental in relation to issues at this level.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u33	BATTIST (M5S). Madam President, I am only partially satisfied with the fact that I have not received an answer to all the questions. I ask the Presidency, if possible, to have the Minister's answers in paper form. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Certainly, the Presidency authorizes the Minister to leave to the documents the written answers of which, for reasons of time, he has failed to read.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u36	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Madam President, Minister, thank you for the information you have wanted to share with this House. It is clear to all that the restructuring of the defence sector is the result of an activity that you strongly wanted and pursued. The approval of the implementing decrees last August is the tangible proof of this. From the outset we have appreciated the opportunity, especially in the light of the particular situation of public finance. I believe that what you have pointed out can be considered a not negligible premise of the path of disposal of the defence assets within the broader framework of that of the State, in order to allow the overcoming of a paradox known to all, that is, the existence of a large heritage totally unused, on the one hand, and, on the other, the presence of offices of the administration in rent to exosite canons. From this point of view, disposal is regarded as a necessary process of rationalization.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u39	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, I repeat the need not to lower our guard, because that would mean accepting the current state of affairs. In our cities, we must first of all ensure maximum safety. Let us focus on two important things: that citizens can work and sleep in peace. We do not want the citizens and their security to be sacrificed on the altar of reducing spending. An invitation: let's think of some less military in foreign missions and some more military in our territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u42	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, we appreciate the Ministry's commitment to the organisation of the Conference on Military Servants. It is known that Sardinia has 60 percent of the military servitudes present in the country and that it has been established in the prefecture of Cagliari a Coordination among the municipalities most interested in this type of servitude. We ask you, if possible, at the preparatory stage of the Conference, to take account of this coordination which has been set up and to open an active dialogue with it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u43	Let us now turn to questions concerning European defence policy. Senators have the right to address their questions to the Minister of Defence, Senator Mauro, for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u46	VATTUONE (PD). Madam President, Minister, the integration of defence policies within the framework of the common foreign and security policy at the heart of the next European Council on 19 and 20 December is essential, in our opinion, for the containment of military expenditure, but it is essential in particular to strengthen the role of the European Union in favour of international security and stability and, we think, also through the development of a common industrial and technological base, also for the Union's own economic growth and competitiveness. The recent events of the international scene, however, have shown a fragmented position of the Member States of the European Union, although with an absolutely shared and appreciable position of Italy, with expressions on several occasions also yours, Minister (I refer to the Syrian issue). In order to ensure effective European integration of defence, however, it is also essential to define a single decision-making and policy-making body. The request, therefore, is to take stock also in this House of what action the government is taking (in part we know, because we have discussed it a few times in the Commission) in the vicinity of this important meeting. In the same context as the process of European integration, in a possible allocation of the various tasks between the Member States, Italy is certainly required to play an important and incisive role in the Mediterranean area. Italy is a nation with a strong maritime vocation, but however, regardless of the outcome of the European Council, the safeguarding of maritime safety is vital for our country. This would mean, taking into account the needs of public finance, an adaptation and modernization of our naval fleet in order to guarantee a sufficient marine ability to meet the tasks of institute, and above all, as declared by the Chief of Staff of the Navy in the Commission, within the next decade the Navy will lose its ability to operate, with inevitable consequences. My question is, therefore, whether a concrete plan in this respect is being studied by the Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u49	Alicata (PdL). Madam President, Minister, next December' s European Council will serve to improve European cooperation in the field of defence and security in technology, surveillance, reconnaissance and intelligence. In order to achieve this, however, it is necessary to strengthen the European defence industry, to improve cooperation and investment, knowing that a common defence would rationalise expenditure. The problem, Minister, is how we reconcile the need for cooperation between states suffering from continuous budget cuts, which will increasingly have a serious impact on research and development. The above, Minister, because we still feel the echo of the words, already emphasized by Senator Vattuone, of the Chief of Staff of the Navy, Admiral De Giorgi, during a recent parliamentary hearing, which has feared the paradoxical risk, for a country like Italy, at the center of the Mediterranean, of the disappearance, over the next ten years, of our Navy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u52	MARTON (M5S). I apologise first, Minister, if I have not sent you the questions previously. Apart from the introductory hat that everyone has made on the European Council, I would like to know what position you will be holding as Minister of this Government of broad understanding in the Council; if you think in view of this integration that giving up part of our sovereignty will be a thing to do in total autonomy, without calling on our citizens; if you consider it useful to continue the purchases of F35, of frigates and so on before discussing this issue in Europe. It seems to me it's illogical to buy weapon systems before we know how we're gonna fit in. One further question is: what will the Eurogendfor do about the possible scenarios that will develop after this European Council? The last question comes to me from the outside: from whom do we have to defend ourselves, Minister?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u55	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Madam President, Minister, I fully share the need for Italian defence to acquire full dimension only if it is located within the European context and, therefore, in line with the reinforcement programmes which are also defined for the purpose of the common European foreign policy. Aiming at the European defence project is a priority, because through this it will be possible to review the effectiveness of the Italian military instrument and adapt it to the new perspectives. In this context and for these purposes, we must focus on the need to build a new military strategic operational plan that can relaunch the ultimate goal of European integration, namely peace, Minister. Starting from these premises, it would seem necessary to renew the national military instrument, including the vehicles supplied to the Air Force and the Navy fleet, argument - this - that has emerged in a strong way regarding the case of the F35 in recent months. Therefore, I ask you what are currently the real conditions under which the Italian means mainly involved in the European defence programmes, in particular the vehicles of the Air Force and the Navy fleet, and how you intend to meet the maintenance of a high standard of quality, efficiency and safety of our fleet means, also to protect the safety of our men engaged in international missions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u58	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, the European Union does not actually have effective functions in the field of defence, either because of the difficulties of implementing common European defence and security policies (in fact the ESDP appears to be on the stake), or because the Member States do not give up their sovereignty in the field of both defence and foreign policy, or because of the competition between our defence industries in the various Member States, on the contrary - instead - the effectiveness that has characterized the structure of the Atlantic Alliance in recent years. Therefore, there are still profound differences between Member States. In fact, some of these are great powers equipped with nuclear weapons, committed to maintaining strongly the prestige of their international role; others are poorly inclined to use force; others still boast a historic tradition of neutrality, incompatible with the idea of using a military instrument in international relations. Having said that, Minister, the question is as follows: is it realistic to consider developing Italy's military planning, given these premises, on the basis of a European dimension?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u61	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Minister, as has been said, the relaunch of the issue at the heart of the Council (i.e. the effectiveness of the common security and defence policies) is, also for my Group, an essential hub in view of the future commitments that the countries of the Union will have to take in order to move forward on the path of European political unity. The defence model, which we believe must be based on innovative practices and systems such as peace bodies and civil cooperation, must be measured in terms of European integration on fundamental aspects, such as strategic vision, choice of weapon systems and levels of military spending, which, precisely because of non-integration, rise enormously. On the other hand, in Italy the reform of the military system developed by the Monti Government does not clarify - in our opinion - the strategic terms with which our I am referring to NATO, the use of bases, transatlantic relations, the Mediterranean, Africa and the Middle East. For this reason, we ask the Minister with what concrete proposals the Government intends to face the December appointment, whether it intends to involve the relevant parliamentary committees and whether it wants to propose the discussion on some of the issues that already require an agreed orientation, as the Syrian affair has shown. Finally, we would like to know whether it considers that, on the question of military expenditure and military industry, we should seek, precisely, greater integration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Minister for Defence, Senator Mauro.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u62	Madam President, although I intend to reply in summary form to the questions that have been asked to me, I start in any case from Senator Marton's remarks, apologizing to him for not having informed him of the answers in advance, and pointing out that, with regard to the most pressing question that he addressed to me, what comes to him from the outside, to protect - of course - the independence and autonomy of Members of Parliament, about who we must defend ourselves, I believe that we must defend ourselves from ignorance, from demagogy: enemies so dangerous that we demand the adoption of weapon systems that are particularly powerful than those we now have in order to be able to cope with them. What are we going to do and what are we going to ask for under the circumstances of the European Council? On this point I come to a subject through which I would like to meet the questions that everyone has asked me. I want to be very clear, I will repeat the speech I made in those places: what is European defence spending today? It is an expenditure that alone is worth more than the expenditure added in defense of Russia, China and Japan: so it is a significant expenditure. Is this a useful, and useful, expenditure on the key to peace and security that we, as an international community, as the European Union, focus on our projects and our ambitions? No, because it is marked by those national egoisms, by that lack of transfer of sovereignty that is identified not in a process dictated by fear, but in a process dictated by the ambition to guarantee even more than Europe has been able to make peace and development so far, and precisely for this reason a level of integration that allows not to cut the same capacities and not to make the same investments: because this is the most important contradiction once the European defence budgets are analysed in detail. But are the European defence budgets, as compared to the large amount I have mentioned, of the growing budgets? No, they're falling budgets. In what proportion? For large countries, such as Great Britain, France and Germany, there is a fluctuation, a cut that varies from 1% to 3% in the last ten years; in the case of Italy we are talking about a cut of 19% over the last ten years. What is more, therefore, is the principle of wanting to understand what it means to integrate, if we also take into account another principle, which can also be seen in relation to what I have specifically asked for, in explaining the issues of the December Council: we are the European Union and all the countries of the European Union, except Cyprus, are within NATO. Is the question of complementarity between the defence action carried out by each other well interpreted? No, because that aspect of complementarity today in fact sees great overlaps, and the role of the European Union tends to be seen as a sort of NGO aggregate to what NATO can, does and does, under certain conditions. So, in order for the political principle to be more valid, together with our colleagues in Portugal and Spain, we have presented to the informal Council of Ministers for Defence in Vilnius, previously discussing it with the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Mrs Ashton, a document which interprets, like others such as the one presented by France and Germany for example, our priorities, what we actually perceive to be those factors that can make us make progress on the integration process; an integration process which cannot be seen shortly with the decision to have a federal model like the United States of Europe which implies a strong transfer of sovereignty, but which is preceded by the birth of the external action service of the European Union, which is that step forward that Europe has taken towards this model, but at the same time has still seen some contradictions. Then it remains indispensable for another reason. Europe, in fact, understood as the European Union, which is a subject of 530 million inhabitants, just 7% of the world's population, produces 25% of the world's wealth and consumes 50% of the welfare services that are distributed throughout the earth's orbe. This reality, therefore, has intrinsically strong responsibilities for peace and security throughout the world and has an even more fundamental problem, which is to defend itself. Therefore, in order for this to be fully guaranteed, we believe that it is essential to address in a very timely manner at the December European Council all those aspects which are based on concrete proposals, on the basis of the two documents already launched by the High Representative and the European Commission, which include all the issues related to the European defence industry and the implementation of the single market within this sector. That is precisely why I have clearly mentioned only the measures and initiatives of the Ministry of Defence, but I want it to be known that in preparation for this important meeting we are traveling very closely with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidency of the Council and, of course, with the Ministries of Economic Development and Economic Development, precisely because in the time that separates us from the December Summit we can strengthen the concrete aspects and enter into the detail of the solutions. I would like to draw the House's attention to two more examples. We have mentioned the possibility of dealing in Parliament, through the work of the Commissions, with the subject of the European Council. We are already doing so, in the Defence Commission, in the Foreign Commission, in all those places that have been preparing their way to this important meeting for some time (before the summer). We are doing this by holding very significant hearings, which are not only those of the Minister of Defence or the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also of the protagonists of the European scenario: a few days ago, in the Senate, the European Commissioner for Industry and Entrepreneurship, Tajani, was audited, explaining what is contained in the Commission's document that prefigures having a defence market that is more comprehensive of the problems and the needs of integration. We are therefore proceeding, I am not saying in writing, but certainly with a feeling of urgency which has grown strongly on the basis of what is happening. Italy, in fact, is a country that until a few years ago saw two thirds of its armed forces deployed in the chessboard of the North-East, waiting for the enemy that should have come from the East: today, instead, those forces are deployed in the South, because the area of instability is in the South of the Mediterranean, and our historical, cultural and political responsibilities are played in the relationship with the themes of the Middle East, the stability of the Gulf, the stability of energy processes, that is, all those aspects that, taken together, make the meaning of the mission of a country like ours. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u63	Madam President, Minister, with regard to the part concerning Europe, I could say that the question concerning the fleet has been completely ignored, I hope for lack of time and not for other reasons.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u66	Mr MAURO, Minister for Defence. I apologise, Mr President, for the irritality but, while I was talking and trying to gather ideas, I went right through a slip. If I have been allowed a few seconds, I would like to add that, as I have already represented in numerous locations near the Navy, Italy is a country that has 8,000 kilometers of coast and that has 60 ships of tonnage able to make marine safety; of these, 47 retire by 2024. This is the basis for understanding the appointments that await us. I would also like, in extremis, to recover the last question put by Senator Marton on the mythical theme of the F35. I remember that, during my visit to the AMX maintenance facility MV2, I checked on the ground that not only do these aircraft retire in 2018, the year in which they will stop flying, but that, although they theoretically have 137 aircraft, in fact they run no more than about thirty. In fact, after thirty years, the aspect of cannibalization - so you must constantly disassemble them and reassemble them because someone actually flies - is marking the retirement age of the air fleet too.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u69	VATTUONE (PD). Madam President, we are satisfied with the response to Europe and we had no doubt, having already heard the Minister's statements on the drive to achieve an adequate level of integration, that in the future we can achieve that European dream that we all hope for. With reference to the naval fleet, we hope that a more concrete and effective plan will be put in place immediately.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u72	Alicata (PdL). Madam President, I should like to say that I am satisfied with Mr Mauro's last clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u75	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, Minister, I regret the unfortunate attempt to be sympathetic, but honestly giving such a response to the citizens seems to me rather unpleasant. As far as his response is concerned, given that he is primarily focused on the industrial and economic plan and never refers to peace as demilitarization, we are not really there. I have nothing more to say, look: I'm really offended.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u78	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Madam President, I am not offended, Minister, and I thank you for the information you have provided in this House on a subject on which information seems scarce and often stirred up by media and ideological speculation, if not ignorance. The theme of the monitoring of the weapon system, its maintenance and possible replacement is an indispensable step in the more general framework of the programming of the Defense; a project whose next appointment is the now imminent European Council on Defense, which will take place in December 2013. The importance and necessity of this have also emerged during the hearings carried out in the context of the cognitive survey on the Italian policy lines and guidelines in relation to the next European Council on Defence, currently carried out by the United Commissions 3a, 4a and 14a of the Senate. This is a particularly welcome work, which at last testifies to the definition of a political awareness and maturity on these issues, consistent with the commitments and responsibilities and with the role that Italy aims to play towards European partners. Minister, go ahead: the institutions responsible will support you.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u81	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, I must say that the scepticism in us remains. The European security and defence policy has not taken off at all for 20 years. No State renounces its freedom and independence to engage in international relations. Our industries are increasingly competing: only to remain in the aviation field, France continues to build Rafale, Sweden in the Gripen and we in the EF (Eurofighter), next JSF. We do not expect much, therefore, from the next European Council on defence, but if we came to good cooperation and to improve the exchange of information and news it would already be a good result. An exhortation to you, Minister: do not stop on the programme of modernization of our means because we cannot guarantee security in the Mediterranean by going to play with the brooms.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u84	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we are only partly satisfied: there are still elements of disagreement. We naturally hope that in the coming weeks there will be a strong involvement of the parliamentary committees, even more so than has been the case so far. For us, the possibility, in an integration framework, of significantly reducing military expenditure cannot simply be a matter of rationalization of expenditure, but should correspond to a real political-strategic vision. On this point, perhaps we disagree more, and I hope that we will have time to discuss it thoroughly in Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u85	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank the Minister of Defence, Senator Mauro, for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u86	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-107.ana.u87	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 24 September, the first at 12 noon and the second at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.55 p.m.
