ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 29 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u4	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, with regard to the communication on the closure of the sitting on Monday 29 April, as regards what has been recorded in the Minutes, I do not agree with the transcript of the Minutes itself: I would need to make a correction to what my statements have been, because they do not correspond to the truth. I therefore call for the Minutes to be supplemented with what I would like to say. Furthermore, Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Tell us better, Senator, what changes you want to make to the Minutes. PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, there was reference to the amendments to the Minutes concerning two regional councillors of the Basilicata Regional Council and one regional councillor of the Basilicata Council, where they were wrongly indicated in the terms of proportion two to one. In addition, reference was made to the Regional Council of Basilicata and to the Regional Council of Basilicata for most of its members. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of the comments made. We have only read the minutes here, which is different from the shorthand report, so we will check them at the offices. PETROCELLI. Madam President, at this time we are asking for integration to take place with what is required and, before we proceed to the vote on the Minutes, as we have requested, we are asking for the quorum to be checked.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. [[Numerous M5S Senators raise their hands.]] You have to put the file on. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) [[Senators of the M5S Group draw the President's attention]] There's Senators Secretary for Control. I ask everyone to do their job. I repeat: I have said that there are Senators Secretary to do the checks; it is up to them. The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 5.11 p.m. and resumed at 5.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u6	Let's resume our work. I'm asking Senator Petrocelli if he's going to ask for a quorum check again. I don't see Senator Petrocelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u7	Madam President, I make the request for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u8	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. Always with the card. I have read the results of the verification. Requesters... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Not even the time to sit down, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, you had to enter the card. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] You had five seconds! VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. The system didn't work! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As you can see from the board the system worked: there are indeed seven votes. GIARRUSSO (M5S). I couldn't even sit down! Not even the time to sit down, President! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is In open session, the Regulations respect each other. We suspended the session and then resumed our work. The quorum has been checked: it is no coincidence that others have been able to vote. There are, therefore, no twelve senators needed to support the request for a quorum check. AIROLA (M5S). We voted, but the corresponding light did not turn on! TAVERNA (M5S). He didn't give us the five seconds! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Look, five-second control was done by Senator Secretary. [[Lives protests from the M5S Group.]] At this point I put the Minutes to the vote by show of hands. Anyone who agrees is begged to raise his hand. [[Lives protests from the M5S Group.]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. There weren't five seconds! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please! Look, I am not the one who can decide, because the Rules of Procedure must be respected. If there wasn't time, they wouldn't have voted for the others either! GIARRUSSO (M5S). This is a shame! It's a shame! AIROLA (M5S). It hasn't been five seconds! GIARRUSSO (M5S). This is not a democracy! You didn't give us time, ma'am! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, I'm just asking you to lower all your tones. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes. Anyone who agrees is begged to raise his hand. [[Live protests from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). This is shameful. [[Live, repeated protests by the M5S Group]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I call you to order and respect the House. I don't think we can do this. [[Extremely lively, repeated protests by the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Let us vote. No, that's not okay! You've seriously violated a rule! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have completed the procedure; there are others who voted. TAVERNA (M5S). He gave five seconds earlier. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm gonna ask the offices to check it out. If we do not respect the rules together there are problems; making exceptions does not help. VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. He didn't give us time to vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the result of the vote on the Minutes by the vote taken first. It's approved. [[Applause from the PD groups, Mr PdL]] and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI)). VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Shame on you! [[Very lively, repeated protests from the M5S Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, keep your voice down, please. I'd like you to listen to me. With regard to the request for the inclusion and correction of the Minutes, the Presidency refers to Rule 60, which states that only acts and deliberations must be included in the minutes, indicating the subject matter and names of those who took part in the proceedings. Therefore, the Offices will be able to take into account the findings set out by Senator Petrocelli for the purpose of a possible modification of the shorthand report. [[Lives protests from the M5S Group.]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. We didn't vote. It's a shame. [[Reiterate, very lively protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u9	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes. [[Very lively, repeated protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u10	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 17.38). AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you, you didn't let us vote! It is a shame not to vote on the Minutes. (Returning to the center-left benches). Shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the sitting, I would like to remind you... [[Very lively, repeated protests from the M5S Group.]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. You can't start the session. We have not been given time to vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Secretaries of the Chamber did the verification. [[Very lively protests from the M5S Group.]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). This is not just a municipal council: it is the Parliament of this country! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask everyone to respect this House. There's the rules, there's the people in charge, don't do that. [[Very lively, repeated protests from the M5S Group.]] Now that you have said words of this nature, I pray everyone to have some calm and to sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin today's sitting, I would like to remind Senator Giulio Andreotti of his life... [[Very lively protests from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and LN-Aut groups]] ..that was missed today at the age of 94, after a very long experience... [[Very lively protests from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and LN-Aut groups.]] In this climate, I suspend the session for five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 5.40 p.m. and resumed at 5.48 p.m.) Let's resume our work. We have also made a reflection, so we can resume calmly. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind the senator for life Giulio Andreotti, who was missing at the age of 94... [[Protests from the M5S Group]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). We asked for a quorum check! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...after a very long parliamentary experience... TAVERNA (M5S). He didn't let us vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...from the constituent and government assembly... TAVERNA (M5S). I have no words! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...who saw him seven times as President of the Council. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, I want to vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. His figure will be commemorated by the Senate in solemn sitting in a forthcoming session. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] But today I manifest to the family... TAVERNA (M5S). And that's how it goes! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ..our condolences, and I ask the House to observe a minute's recollection. [[Many senators stand up and observe a minute's recollection.]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). This is a very serious precedent. TAVERNA (M5S). You're preventing us from commemorating what's right to commemorate. We asked him in every way. IURLARO (PdL). (Added to the desks of the M5S Group). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, I demand respect for this minute of recollection. VOICE FROM THE PDL GROUP. Get them out! GIARRUSSO (M5S). We want to vote! SANTANGELO (M5S). We must vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, I ask for a minute of silence and respect for Senator Andreotti. AIROLA (M5S). Even now it is rather disrespectful to ask for a minute's silence. CALIENDO (PdL). But discuss later, not now! Mr Lezzi (M5S). I mean, Madam President, we represent eight million people. GIARRUSSO (M5S). This minute of silence is for the death of democracy. [[At the end of the minute of recollection, protests from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, LN-Aut, GAL, Misto-SEL and For Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u12	The next item is the debate on document LVII, No 1, which covers the whole of Italy. The reports have already been printed and distributed. She asked to speak to supplement the written report by the rapporteur, Senator Ghedini Rita. You have the right to do so. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] TAVERNA (M5S). Shame on you! It's the usual theater! AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I mean, you have to do your job! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, the Presidency has also spoken with some of your representatives. Please! We have said that we will then carry out the necessary checks. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Please, colleagues! Our work cannot proceed in this way. AIROLA (M5S). But when do you do these tests? GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, you did not let me vote. I want to vote!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u15	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I would like to speak on the order of business if my colleagues in the Five Star Movement allow me to speak. Madam President, this is the Senate of the Republic: I believe that in the Senate of the Republic it is necessary to hold an appropriate attitude to the tenor of the institutions. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, LN-Aut, LAL, SCPI and Mixed-SEL Groups.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). That's what we wanted to do! ZANDA (PD). The Senate, like the Chamber of Deputies, has a regulation that allows each senator, and even more so to an important and so fed group, to assert their own reasons according to the rules of our Senate. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups. Protests from the M5S Group.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a parliamentary term to pass together. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for compliance with the Rules of Procedure! ZANDA (PD). The Rules of Procedure are not respected by screaming against the Presidency and by interrupting the minute of silence observed for reasons of mourning! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Madam President, if this gazzarra is to continue, I would ask you to suspend the sitting! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, you can't do this! You can express opinions of dissent or not, but you need respect! Please, Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). Madam President, if this gazzarra is to continue, I would ask you formally to suspend the sitting! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). She's not a gazzar! SANTANGELO (M5S). We demand compliance with the rules! [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u18	DELLA VEDOVA (SPI). Madam President, it is not a criticism of the use of the Rules of Procedure and also of the use (if necessary) of the Rules of Procedure and of all the rules that allow up to the parliamentary filibustering. I believe, however, that in this case, Madam President, what would be very serious, whatever the good or not good reasons, is to create a precedent whereby in the Senate Chamber also a frank and frank debate is overclassed by voices and chatter. I therefore agree with Mr Zanda's request to suspend the sitting, because what we have just experienced would be an unjustifiable and very dangerous precedent for the Senate's work, regardless of who should then behave like this in the future. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PDL groups. Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u21	Orellana (M5S). Madam President, you who are sitting on other benches have not seen what has happened among our own. I saw my colleagues insert the hand into the device and, while one was requesting verification, the other was not. This shows that there are technical problems. I don't want to remember the old TV quizzes where you tried the buttons, but in this case, obviously, there was a technical problem. Therefore, reasonableness would have liked to have voted again immediately after the problem had been raised: it would have taken two seconds and all this would not have happened. On the other hand, there has been a rigidity that we fear has served to allow more senators to enter the Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is the injustice that we do not accept! It is in this sense that the Rules of Procedure are not being applied! [[Happy applause from the M5S Group.]] We who, on the other hand, believe that the Rules of Procedure are respected would like this to be applied in form and substance. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u22	Colleagues, with respect for everyone and also with the comments made, I believe that this House must maintain compliance with the rules, even in the different opinions and also in the checks to be carried out. It has been established that an assessment of what has happened will be carried out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u23	I call the rapporteur, Senator Ghedini Rita.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken on the role of rapporteur on the Economic and Financial Document in place of Senator Filippo Bubbico, who is called on to act as a government. He goes, of course, as well as the other members of the government, best wishes for good work. [[Applause from the PD, PDL, SCPI and LAG groups]] The report submitted to the acts has been prepared and submitted to the Special Commission for the examination of the draft law for the conversion of decree-laws by those who preceded me in office. I therefore ask that we be able to briefly summarize and supplement it here, mainly because of the events of the last few days and because of the most important aspects of updating. The presentation of the Economic and Financial Document takes place within the time-frame of the new process of ex ante coordination of the economic policies of the Member States of the European Union and is carried out in the Chambers in order to enable them to express themselves on the policy objectives of economic policy in time for sending to the Council of the European Union and to the Commission of the Stability Programme and of the National Reform Programme contained, respectively, in the first and third parts of the Document. In the present political phase of the country the presentation of the Document of economy and finance is placed in the middle of a phase of transition. The document under discussion today was presented by a Government that had already resigned in the previous legislature and, consequently, confirms the lines of economic policy held by the Executive without making any commitments for the future. With the re-election of the President of the Republic and the formation of the new Government, which on April 29 presented its programme to the Chambers and received its trust, a new political phase began. The report presented, therefore, confines itself to describing the contents of the DEF prepared by the Executive in the ordinary administration phase, illustrating, alongside the salient data that characterize the macroeconomic framework in the international and internal cyclical phase, the prospects of the Italian economy and the public finance framework that can be drawn on the basis of ex ante economic policy choices. I would therefore like to refer here only to the most important points contained in the document. With regard to the Stability Programme, the slowdown of the world economy in 2012 compared to 2011, which was partly reflected in the first months of the current year, was highlighted, leading to a downward revision of the global economy's growth forecast for 2013. According to the document, estimates of global GDP growth would be as high as 3.2 percent for the current year and as high as 3.6% for world trade. In this scenario, the euro area is expected to shrink by 0.3% in 2013 and to recover slightly for the following year. The analysis of the Italian macroeconomic framework in 2012 and the forecasts for the current year and for the period 2014-2017 reflect elements of uncertainty even more marked than the prospects of growth of the global and European economy. For 2013, the Italian economy is expected to shrink by 1.3%, while for the following years the recovery of domestic demand is expected to guarantee a large part of the growth trend of GDP, on average of 1.3% in the period 2014-2017. The measures taken by the European institutions, aimed at restoring the economic and financial stability of the European Union through the consolidation of the Member States' public budgets, in particular those with the highest sovereign debt, and the reduction of the effects of financial market volatility, have allowed a general improvement in the financial situation of the euro area and our country, among those most exposed to financial market turbulence, have made it possible to achieve, through a series of corrective financial manoeuvres and structural reforms, the objective of reducing the spread of interest rates on public debt securities and structural balance in 2013 and in the years following up to 2017. The line adopted, focused almost exclusively on budgetary discipline, however, had depressing effects on the overall capacity of the euro area economic system, and in particular of our country, to produce wealth, with particularly negative effects on employment, which after the dramatic decline in 2012 continues to decrease, as well as on the consumption capacity of households. These factors add to and motivate the difficulties of economic recovery in the euro area and the recession in our country. In Italy, in fact, all macroeconomic indicators related to real economy performance are negative, with the exception of export performance alone, however insufficient to compensate for the sharp decline in domestic consumption. The public finance framework outlined by the DEF is overall positive, especially when compared with the emerging situation of the second half of 2011. The Stability Programme shows that, despite the worsening economic situation in 2012, the measures taken so far allow, net of the cycle and one-off measures, the achievement - as I said - of the balance in structural terms as early as 2013. Net debt, estimated at 2.9 per cent in 2013 (which already offsets the deterioration due to the start of the payment of commercial debts of the public administration), shows a downward trend over the programming period, placing itself firmly below the threshold of 3% laid down by the European legal system, which is overtaken by the infringement procedure for excessive deficits. The measures to revise and reduce public expenditure, accompanied by a sharp increase in revenue (due to the increase in tax pressure), improve the trend of the primary balance to current legislation, expected to grow until 2017. Interest expenditure, again over the five-year reference period, gradually increases from 5.3 percent in 2013 to 6.1 percent in 2017, still remaining within physiological limits, taking into account the high sovereign debt and the still high trend in financial markets. The expenditure of public administrations has been substantially monitored, so much so that, as a result of the measures taken so far, in particular with regard to central governments, regions and local authorities, expenditure will fall from 51.1% in 2013 to 48.3% in 2017. In order to make this level of expenditure more efficient, it is now essential to complete the process of spending review already started in previous years, definitively abandoning the policy of linear cuts. On the revenue side, due to corrective financial manoeuvres, there was a substantial increase in final revenue in 2012 which reached 47.7% of GDP. In 2013, final revenues will continue to increase, reaching 48.2% of GDP, and then a slight decrease until 2017 to reach the 47.3% of GDP ratio. Tax pressure is therefore expected to be 44.4% in 2013, and then gradually and slowly decrease to 43.8% in 2017. In this regard, it is important to point out the urgent need to strengthen measures and instruments to combat tax evasion and corruption, which are essential to recover a substantial part of those 180 billion euros that today escape the legal economy circuit and that - as highlighted by the Court of Auditors itself during the hearings held in the Special Commission - could reduce the tax burden. Finally, the public debt ratio on GDP, which reached the maximum value of 130.4% in 2013, also due to the release of payments of commercial debts of public administrations to suppliers, begins its gradual decline from 2014, but remains at very high levels and still worrying. These are not without effect for our economic system, in view of the so-called rules of debt and spending recently introduced into our system. Overall, the examination of the Stability Programme and the National Reform Plan, despite the results achieved with the measures taken over the last few months, shows the need to fill the growth and competitiveness gap accumulated by our country due to the international economic and financial crisis compared to the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy and to reduce the level of sovereign debt. Growth is the essential condition to recover competitiveness and employment levels of European standards and - as has been authoritatively pointed out also in the hearings by most auditioned institutional actors - to successfully address the path of return of the public debt that Europe requires us and that our country needs. The national targets set for 2020 by the National Reform Plan are significantly reduced compared to the targets set by the Europe 2020 Strategy, in particular for indicators that are more sensitive to the material living conditions of people, such as the employment rate (in particular youth and women), the education rate, the poverty rate and sensitive development indicators such as investment in research and development. The overall analysis of the Document shows that stabilisation measures alone cannot be decisive, nor can the objectives of public finance be achieved and maintained over time in the absence of an increase in the potential of the economy, particularly in countries in strong recession such as ours. The European Council of 14 March last held a wide-ranging debate on the economic and social situation of the euro area and established guidelines for the economic policy of the Member States and the European Union in 2013. The debate highlighted the need to focus attention on implementing the decisions to be taken with regard to the Growth and Jobs Pact and to give particular priority to supporting youth employment and promoting growth and competitiveness. In June, the European Council will return to the evaluation of policies being defined at national level to implement these priorities, as well as to the implementation of the Growth and Jobs Pact. Here the new government will have to set out its economic policy lines in order to combat the recession and promote growth and cohesion. In his programmatic speech, Prime Minister Enrico Letta said: The maintenance of the commitments made with the Economic and Finance Document is necessary to get out of the excessive deficit procedure as soon as possible and to recover room for manoeuvre within European constraints. In European and international fora Italy will then work to identify strategies to revive growth without compromising the process of public finance consolidation. This need has been largely taken into account in the debate in the special Commission, both on the substance of the contributions of the audit bodies and in the speeches of the Commissioners. On May 2nd, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Professor Fabrizio Saccomanni, who greeted, confirmed that the economic and financial framework outlined in the Document of Economics and Finance allows the substantial respect of all the budgetary constraints foreseen both in the context of the strengthening of European governance and in the national one, confirming also that the maintenance of the deficit in nominal terms, for this year and for the following years, below the limit of 3% will allow Italy, around the middle of June, to exit from the excessive deficit procedure. The achievement of this result and the confirmation of the balance of the budget in structural terms and of net debt below 3% throughout the period 2014-2015 are the indispensable condition in order to allow the government to request the European institutions to benefit from greater margins of flexibility than the budgetary rules. This is due to the fact that the exit from excessive deficit infringement procedures has been estimated to free up several billion euros of additional resources to be allocated to growth. The policies of virtuous consolidation in line with the European objectives in the path of adjustment of the deficit and debt, among other things, have already allowed Italy to put in place the urgent measure for the liquidation of 40 billion commercial debts of the public administration towards the enterprises (object of the decree-law 8 April 2013, n. 35, under discussion in the other branch of the Parliament). The closure of the excessive deficit procedure would also result in an improvement in the credit quality of our country, with the presumed containment of the BTP-Bund spread and, consequently, of the cost of the service of the public debt. In addition, the Minister noted that the European policy agenda and the constraints it imposes on Member States are an integral and indispensable part of any structural reform to be put in place in the near future. However, policies to curb public spending made necessary by the crisis have left a heavy legacy on households and businesses, which have been faced with a tightening of the tax burden and the consequent weakening of demand for consumption and investment. Therefore, the path that the new Government will follow must now be more growth-oriented, combining European stability policies with decisive actions for the recovery of economic activity and employment. These are identified in those already stated by Prime Minister Letta in the programmatic discourse: reduction of the fiscal pressure, first of all on the job; revision of the existing taxation on the buildings, also in order to give impetus to the building and stability to the incentives of ecological restructuring of the houses; continuation of the interventions of the payment of the debts of the public administrations towards the suppliers; loosening of the Internal Stability Pact; renunciation of the tightening of the VAT; increase of the Central Guarantee Fund for the small and medium enterprises and of the Solidarity Fund for the mortgages; widening of the fiscal incentives for those who invest in innovation; support to the aggregation and the internationalization of the small and medium enterprises; simplification and removal of the bureaucratic obstacles that hold back the spirit of enterprise. In stressing that such interventions must be carried out without creating new indebtedness and negotiating - hopefully - procedures which are more flexible with the European Union, the Government has taken some time to present proposals made for the short and medium term to Parliament, inviting Parliament itself to approve the Economic and Finance Document at unchanged balances and committing itself to submit to the Chambers the new economic and financial guidelines in time compatible with the closure of the excessive deficit procedure, which is necessary to extrinse the strategic objectives expressed by the Government. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u25	On behalf of the entire Senate, I would like to extend a greeting to the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo Statale (State Understanding Institute) Aldo Moro in Carosino, in the province of Taranto. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u26	He asked to speak to supplement the written report by Senator Molinari, a minority rapporteur. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, senators, senators and citizens, before I go any further - with the few minutes available, of course, I will not be able to explain the report in its entirety - in the arid land of economic and financial data, let me clarify, I hope, clearly and unequivocally, the reasons why we in the 5 Star Movement have a priority to invoke in Parliament's classrooms, even before the institutional office we incarnate by virtue of our mandate, our being citizens, and the reasons for which we are now the only real opposition in this Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Not for sterile demagogic populism, as some silly commentator might close, but to remind the many who seem to have forgotten it, because they have become deaf and blind to the many dramas that our society is suffering, that sovereignty belongs only to the Italian people. Those same 8 million belonging to the Italian people who have called us here and who accuse you of having betrayed, more than ever in the last thirty years, the Constitutional Charter and the rules. No blank bills signed to the political forces that have denied this country: this we promised to the Italian people in the electoral campaign. But we have declared ourselves ready to vote for good laws in favour of citizens by anyone who proposes. In fulfilling our mandate, which for us, as we know, is in time, we consider ourselves directly heirs to other young people who at the time of the need of the nation have understood which side to stand, when other foreigners wanted to occupy our lands and our institutions. We intend to restore dignity to politics, which today more than ever needs sound coherence between word and action. With the painful birth of this Government, and the directly connected election of the President of the Republic, even that part of Italians who still imagined and hoped possible a reform of the parties has now been able to discover that behind the fig leaf of technicians there is only one political class, that has governed and governs this country, even where someone continues to call it right or left. In bringing light to where there was darkness so far, we already feel honored to have acquitted the first substantial electoral mandate received from our voters. This is witnessed by the first political act of this Government, which has made its own the Document of Economics and Finance prepared by the previous one, of which it is evidently considered heir, where, if it were a real Government of innovation, as the political forces that compose it intended to make their voters believe, it should have denounced the disastrous failure of austerity policies. From the examination of the Economic and Financial Document it seems that we are about to exit the infringement procedure, on which the Government hopes to implement the so-called flexible economic policies of return; but in reading the OECD data of the other day we doubt it strongly. In fact, the published report tells us of a deficit of 3.3 percent in 2013 and 3.8 in 2014, net of the suspension of the IMU. Behind these numbers, which tell us of a policy of blind rigor applied as a dogma, there are the devastating effects that have produced and produce on civil society; but the commitments that we have heard from the Government and reaffirm by Minister Saccomeni are in a continuation: first the rigor, then the growth; promises in continuity with those that the Italian people have heard pronounced by Professor Monti at the time of confidence, that you have all granted and conferred, when taking over the Berlusconi Government, underwriter of those pacts with Europe. Promises that spoke of rigor, fairness and growth; of them in reality the people suffered only the first, paying a high tribute, even in terms of suicides, as the daily journalistic chronicles tell us dramatically. All too often, in fact, there are cases of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who have felt abandoned, and in that extreme act they have found the only form of protest; or like the trade unionist Burgarella, who hanged himself with the Constitution that this political class has betrayed in its deepest principles. Let us remember those unfulfilled promises, because we are part of that people who have endured them on their own skin, and our first commitment as the only real force of opposition will be to call you to respond to their history, also because the great economic-financial capital of a speculative nature has remained inviolate, as unpunished have remained those unfaithful men of the institutions that have facilitated the demolishing work of the social state, without affecting the waste of politics, leaving entirely unchanged the privileges of parasitic and unproductive classes and questioning, at the same time, civil and social rights. A recent study by the International Monetary Fund found that fiscal austerity plans have a negative impact on growth, greater than hitherto estimated. The model also used by the European Commission and on which all adjustment programmes were based indicated the low-impact fiscal multiplier on lower growth. The new calculations show, instead, that, since the outbreak of the crisis of 2008 to date, a negative spiral has actually started higher than the forecasts, between tax cuts and recessions. Even more true considerations for the resounding historical oversight of Reinhart and Rogoff, which collapses one of the dogmas on which the policy of rigor has been based for several decades, namely that when the ratio of public debt to gross domestic product exceeds 90 percent the growth freezes and is entered into recession, as recently evidenced in the "Finncial Times" Martin Wolf. In July 2012 our Parliament ratified two important treaties, the one on fiscal compact and the one on the European stability mechanism, which will drain further financial spaces to our economy: already the requirement of April - it has just spread the data the Ministry of Economy and Finance - has suffered with a worsening for the payment of the subscription of the capital for approximately 2,800 million euros. The system thus pre-established is a huge contradiction: it strangles the real economy with austerity measures to get out of the debt crisis and at the same time the latter rises out of proportion, also because of the same strategies aimed at reducing its consistency, with the consequence that the so-called social scissors has further expanded: the poor and those close to the poverty line have increased and the very few rich have continued to gain and become rich. In practice, a redistribution of wealth has been carried out in the opposite direction, increasing that of those who have helped to create the crisis to the detriment of those who have suffered it. The 5 Star Movement reiterates that, within the context of the described cyclical framework, which is deteriorating and not only for the data released by the OECD, a new, heavily depressed economic maneuver is not conceivable. On the contrary, courageous and innovative choices are needed. It is no coincidence that on Saturday the ECB has further reduced rates and for the first time it has suggested that it reserves the right to bring down the deposit rates that banks have with it in order to force them to invest: the only monetary maneuver that is possible for it to operate, since by statute it cannot print money. In response to the exhilarating failure of the austerity system, a different European policy must be put in place, through countercyclical measures which also provide for the renegotiation of the Maastricht Treaty and the fiscal compact in order to relaunch a new Europe. We need greater democracy in European governance, which places the well-being of European citizens at its centre, and not the myth of development and growth that has brought us into the current situation. The role of the ECB must also be redefined, which should become a lender of last resort for the various public debts and include among its objectives the pursuit of full employment and promote those productive investments useful for the ecological conversion of our production system. The single European currency, if it has allowed for years a certain stability of the eurozone, hiding the obvious economic diversity between nations, has done so at the cost of a rigidity that is dangerous today in a period of prolonged crisis like this. Despite everything, the economic strategy that we have read in the DEF 2013 is still aimed at imposing sacrifices, it is in a single sense, with the debt that remains nailed, indeed grows, the unemployment that increases, as well as taxes, while reducing consumption, and with a total absence of an organic project for the achievement of the national objectives and above all of a clear courage to govern Italy for the realization of the targets of Europe 2020. For years now we have heard about promises, dogmas about budgetary constraints, fiscal consolidation, deficit-GDP ratio, spreads, public debt, cuts in public spending, diktat coming from Europe and who would like to transform our beloved country into a mathematical equation, in the name of an assertive when unproved scientificity of the economy. As long as politics and the economy prefer to respect accounting numbers and dogmas, rather than principles of humanity, the lives of citizens will be zero. It is the actions and work of men who value money, not aseptic parameters! And without men, women and above all young people, this nation is destined to disappear. What strength does a State have if it bows to the ideology of the accounting constraints that only generate social misery? Will a State which has failed to guarantee social welfare for its young people, so as to give them a present of despair and a hopeless future, be able to enjoy historical honour? What dignity does a country have that takes away hope from its people? What is an expression of a policy that neglects to increase the culture, education and civilization of its people? Politics and the economy have been transformed into a weapon of death, into a repository of numbers, constraints and parameters that no longer have any connection with reality, with the right of every person to live a free and dignified existence. Who dares ideologically respect the constraints is no longer able to see the beauty of life, is no longer able to defend it, is no longer able to make policies that take care of it, is no longer able to make laws that defend the culture and education of young people as a fundamental asset to build the hope of the future. Instead of idolizing the accounts of death, we want to make laws and policies - indicated in our report - that deal with the economy of life. We want to measure that fair and sustainable well-being that will give value to the quality of education of a human being, even if it will not increase the portfolio of the usual known. And if we really have to put constraints, we put constraints of humanity, of the dignity of the person under whom we cannot descend, we introduce infringement procedures that affect all those who have deliberately passed budgetary laws that have caused economic disasters contrary to universal human rights. Everyone, as a member of the community, has the right to social security and to the realization, through national efforts, of the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable to his dignity and the free development of his personality. Everyone has the right to free choice of employment, fair and satisfactory working conditions and protection against unemployment. Everyone has the right to a fair and satisfactory remuneration, ensuring that he and his family have an existence in accordance with human dignity. Everyone has the right to a state that cares about the future of his people and that is working with all its forces to repudiate the bonds that generate death and misery and instead propugates the economy of life. The time has come, before further and more radical social rifts, that the treaties are discussed, that politics resume to do what it is entrusted to, treaties that are not written law on stone. Think of the vision of a Europe of bureaucrats and banks, because the 5 Star Movement is for a Europe where peoples live freely and in harmony and in which the European Parliament must find centrality! That is why we propose that you vote on a document on economics and finance that speaks of future and hope and of resources from which to receive the funds to achieve its objectives. In the light of the above considerations it is considered that the DEF 2013 has no medium and long-term programming that gives hope to our country and, therefore, invites the Government to accept our report and the comments contained therein, as well as, the resolution that we will present in support. These proposals are outlined in order to prepare the most appropriate measures to emerge from an economic and social crisis that has no precedent in history. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u28	Colleagues, I would like to remind you that the timing for the debate has been divided between the Groups as set out by the Conference of Leaders. Motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u29	Madam President, Senators and Senators, members of the Government, the economic situation in which the state finances are located requires that the choices be adapted to the real needs of Italians and that the few resources advanced by the payment of previous debt situations are used for the good of most citizens. The fundamental premise is that public finance is a common good in common, generated by Italian citizens with the taxes that we all pay (or we should). Here I would like to draw the attention of the House to a number of short-sighted choices (and based on false assumptions) contained in Annex V - Strategic Infrastructure Programme of this document. We would have expected much more from the so-called due diligence: in finance due diligence means investigation, analysis and risk prediction. We would have expected that strictness typical of those who are obliged to manage family budgets without sufficient income. We hoped in a repentance about the use of Law No. 443 of 2001, a necessary correction of the distortions of that objective law that bypasses the popular will and drops from the high design, eliminating any control of guarantee, utility, feasibility and risk in order to reach the immediate use of public funds at the expense of taxpayers' pockets and the environment. But that didn't happen. With regret we note the lack of funding in infrastructures for services to the citizenship, such as the school building, the sanitary one, water or penitentiary, against disproportionate figures for new railway connections like the Turin-Lyon, the Third Pass of the Giovi or the Milan-Verona-Padova-Mestre, that international traffic data indicates as non-priority and, in some cases, marked as inappropriate by the same technicians called to guide the process of the project. The first chapter of Annex V states that the strategic infrastructure programme is to coincide national priorities with those for European-wide (TEN-T core network) investments. Nothing more revolutionary! Taking, for example, the TAV-TAC Torino-Lyon, there is absolutely no coincidence between national priorities and European investments related to the trans-European axes (TEN-T). It is not a national priority, because there is already double track and it is used at 27% of its potential, even after the very recent modernization cost over 400 million euros. It is not a European priority. Europe does not ask for it. Please read the European Union Decision No 661/2010/EU of the European Parliament of 7 July 2010 (Annex III) confirming Decision No 884/2004/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 (Annex II), the so-called sacred text of the TEN-T core network, as indicated by President Monti, which provides for 30 trans-European axes (TEN-T). Well, axis 6 Lyon-Trieste-Divača/Koper-Divača-Lubiana-Budapest-Ukraine border (corresponding to the old corridor 5) is not planned at high speed and the same Commissioner in charge for the eastern part of Italy, the architect Mainardi, excludes the need to create a new line, at least for another thirty years, while it provides for the use and possibly the modernization of the existing routes. High-speed axles 2, 3, 4 and 19 are specifically provided for. Axis 6 already exists in Italy: I repeat, there is no coincidence, as they want you to believe, with the European interest, because it is not foreseen, from Europe, at high speed or high capacity. Axis 6 is expected from Europe as a conventional line, as stated also by the Italian Ministry of Infrastructure, with the request for joint financing (Italy-France) of 18 July 2007, signed by the Minister of Infrastructure, where, on page 1, it is obtained that the railway line is conventional. It is the usual hoax to deceive about the need for public spending. Europe does not ask for this and it is not necessary: there is already, in the Italian part, axis 6! While the Italians are asking us, loudly, to make services more functional, from local public transport to health services, from education to welfare, areas where, on the other hand, indiscriminate cuts have been made so as to irreparably undermine their efficiency. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u30	Senator Merloni is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u31	Madam President, representatives of the Government, colleagues: we have taken all the exams, written the degree thesis and now we just have to discuss it. I would like to begin this speech by taking up the words spoken by the Minister of Economy during last Thursday's hearing on the Economic and Financial Document before the Special Committees of the Chamber and Senate: The phase of the rigor we have been called has allowed us to reach this point and the important sacrifices we have had to face are showing the first results. The action of the Monti government, in fact, has allowed first of all the rebalancing of public finances: an action of consolidation and structural reform that has had an intensity and an extent that has not always been fully taken from the chronicle day by day and that in 2012 have reported the government deficit of Italy, substantially in line with the recommendations in the European, below the threshold of 3% of GDP. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator. I would like to ask my colleagues, including those at the government's desks, to allow us to follow the debate. Thank you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We couldn't help but put the accounts in safety to get out of the infringement procedure, to free resources to be used for phase 2 of the economic recovery of our country. Once, then, the European Commission's exit from the excessive deficit procedure will be official - we hope that the Commission's statements last Friday will be a positive sign in this direction - we will proceed to a Note of integration, as announced by Mr Saccottani himself. From Europe, therefore, resources of 12 billion could be unlocked, which could be used by decree of the Government for the remodulation of the IMU, in order to avoid the increase of the VAT previewed in July and for the financing of the integration fund in derogation. The Minister for Economic Affairs has assured that he will try to take all necessary measures to allow a rapid and satisfactory approach to the most urgent problems, citing the IMU and in general the taxation of the house, the exodus and the refinancing of the integration fund by way of derogation. Good, because these certainly represent some of the priorities to be addressed in the Note of integration to the Document of economy and finance, without improvised or hasty measures. However, alongside everything that revolves around the redefinition of the IMU, with the already positive shift in the payment of the installment planned for next June, considering the difficult economic phase that we are going through, it is necessary to intervene on the taxation of the job going to affect the tax wedge, reducing the tax burden for the enterprises and the employees. Moreover, the OECD, in its report on the situation of the Italian economy in 2013 published and presented to CNEL last Thursday, recommended that the reduction of labour taxes should be affected, judging this measure as more important than the reduction of the IMU. As we know, the priority for companies is IRAP. Monetary incentives are important to restart recruitment policies, but they are not enough; taxes on young people, new recruits and stable work must be reduced. To intervene on the IRAP must therefore be an objective of this Government, because such tax, burdening on the cost of the job, penalizes the companies even when they do not make useful. From the point of view of employees, however, it is necessary to think of an intervention that provides for the reduction of the IRPEF perhaps through a strengthening of the specific deduction. In both cases the aim is to reduce the scissors between the cost of labour for the company and the net pay received in paychecks. Facing the cost of labour means tackling the unemployment problem, which has now reached intolerable levels for a country worthy of this name, and it also means, above all, giving hope to generations who feel cut off from any work dynamic and who could therefore also undermine the social issue. In order to boost the country's competitiveness and capacity to grow, alongside interventions on the tax wedge, it will be important to raise the attention of the banking system towards companies. Credit institutions have a moral obligation to make a decisive contribution to encouraging the production system through better and easier access to credit. With this in mind, the decision of President Draghi of the European Central Bank and of the whole board to reduce the cost of money by a quarter of a point, bringing it to the historic lows since the introduction of the euro. There are therefore all the conditions for the banks to return to their main mission: to finance private investment with the provision of credits. Today Italy is in emergency liquidity. The third wave of credit crunch is underway, after those 2007-2009 and 2011-2012. Business loans have been falling for more than a year and a half and the stock has fallen by 47 billion, an unprecedented post-war event. In this scenario, banks are increasingly selective and the scarcity of available resources contributes to the increase in failures. It is therefore important to restart the confidence of the banks in order to re-launch with determination the Italian economic growth. Finally, one cannot fail to mention the disposal of state property. The creation of the savings management company will be able to give the desired change in order to confirm the forecasts of the document of economy and finance to get in the state funds resources equal to a point of GDP per year in the next five years. It is therefore essential for Italy to continue with determination on the path of structural reforms that can lay the foundations for a lasting and stable economic recovery that will manifest itself in 2014, but that could be intercepted already in the last months of this year. A new climate accompanied by concrete steps in the short and medium term: of this our country is the necessity and urgency. This Parliament and this Government have the opportunity to redesign a better future for Italy and for Italians, abandoning the conflict of the last twenty years and establishing a new phase of synergistic and constructive work. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this document has its own peculiarity (not to mention its own criticality) which is absolutely original, which is procedural but also substantial. It is born from a government that is not the current one, it is transmitted to Parliament for its debate, it comes into the heart of the debate when Parliament has given confidence to a new government. As I said, it is not only a procedural issue but also a substantive one, as it allows, it must allow and it must provide for its updating, of course at the initiative of the Government (as the Minister has already announced), but there is also an openness to Parliament's suggestions. This peculiarity therefore allows Parliament to have an absolutely unusual procedure, to debate in advance and to suggest to the Government any changes to the document. This, of course, is not about the presuppositions of our current and forecast economy, because otherwise we would be wrong - and I would say almost offended - to those who have prepared these data from a technical point of view and we would enter into a conception in which we do not want to go into, that is the fact that sometimes data can be processed to usum Delphini. On the other hand, we believe that on current data, which we have become aware of, a completely innovative process of structural revision of our economy should be launched. The rapporteur mentioned, as well as other colleagues, the key points on which action is needed to restore the country's hope of employment and productivity: the tax sector and that of productivity incentives. For the tax sector we go from the IMU, to the TARES, to a thorough revision of these two fiscal instruments, bringing them back to their original philosophy of local taxes aimed at compensating the services rendered to the citizen, but it also concerns VAT, of which we must absolutely avoid the increase, and the IRAP, of which we must certainly anticipate the progressive elimination. If all this has to be done (but it is also necessary to intervene on productivity, on the payment of debts to businesses, but above all on the reorganization of incentives), it is undeniable and inevitable that these measures also require a revision of the government's operating margins, not only from the point of view of financial availability, but also of the budgetary balances relating also to Community requirements. So there are two key areas that need to be structurally affected in order to create these margins: one is public debt and the other is public spending cuts. On public debt we must imagine taking seriously the many proposals, including the important ones made by the People of Freedom, to review the structure of public debt through the enucleation of its part guaranteed by public property, for which it is not enough to say - I have heard it in this House for several years during my stay - that they must be exploited. securitisation plans, demobilisation plans have been made; a whole series of plans have been made which have proved to be ineffective and inefficient on time and have not achieved the purpose to which they were intended. It is therefore necessary to consider seriously the enucleation of part of the public debt, to treat in Europe so that this enucleation is no longer counted for the purposes of the gross domestic debt-product ratio, and therefore, in view of this incident, the ratio of debt to gross domestic product can be rebalanced and above all between deficit and gross domestic product, because the deficit must not count that share of interest that would be paid on the so-called folders that should be issued for nuclear purposes that part of the public assets that should then go to reduction of the debt. Therefore, while remaining within the European parameters, there could certainly be room for action. As far as cuts in public spending are concerned, we know that the so-called horizontal cuts and cuts in the reduction of certain parts of political spending are absolutely inadequate to meet the needs of the country. The cuts in public spending must be compared and measured on a great institutional reform of our country that must concern the autonomy. We have now seen and ascertained, above all through the numbers of the budgets, that the great waste of the public part in this country is constituted by the autonomy: above all the Regions, the excessive number of the Provinces, the excessive number of the Municipalities. The cuts to public spending must therefore affect the points of expenditure, the number of points of expenditure, not only of these agencies, but also of all intermediate bodies that are then the result of the activity on the territory of the individual bodies: 8,200 municipalities, of which the vast majority, more than half, has less than 3,000 inhabitants, and 20 Regions, with some of them having a consistency not greater than that of the district of a large city, are no longer an institutional apparatus that our country can hold in comparison, in terms of competitiveness, with the public expenditure of other countries. Moreover, they are the result of a centralist conception of the State that, over time, has positioned itself on the territory in order to carry out its tasks and its competences. The structure of territorial self-government must now be thoroughly reviewed to make them more streamlined, to achieve economies of scale, to meet citizens in making services effective and efficient. If we use these two great opportunities, that of structural intervention on the public debt, with an ordinary law, and that of a profound revision of the autonomy, through a constitutional law, that really makes the bureaucratic apparatus spread on the territory much easier, we will be able to create those margins of intervention to reduce the tax burden on our citizens and to give companies a series of new incentives to productivity. But this, of course, also affecting innovative criteria on incentives, which can no longer be those of the past but must also have the capacity to intercept those economic sectors that over time we have considered to be outdated from the point of view of their effectiveness, such as agriculture and crafts, together with new and important economic sectors, unfortunately neglected, such as tourism, which can be a source of work, employment and productive revival, waiting for the industrial model to be on its knees especially because of the high cost of labour. Today our industries close, not only because of the deficit of their budgets, but also, while being active, because they relocate: they go abroad, where the cost of labour is definitely lower and therefore deprive our country of sources of work and productivity really relevant. It is a process to which we must put an absolute stop. That is why we are asking the Government, in its dialogue with Parliament, to take advantage of this unusual opportunity of a document of economics and finance which needs to be revised, which can draw some insights from this debate, as we have recently been allowed to do in the Community since the Lisbon Treaty. But I also want to give another indication. The government, which is political, uses its Parliament and does not mortify it as has been done in recent years with a system of decrees that go, unchanged or unchangeable, with confidence, through a mechanism of imperfect monocameralism. Make sectoral decrees and avoid omnibus decrees. Parliament's committees and Parliament will be able to make the appropriate contributions and responses. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I share with you some thoughts on the Economic and Financial Document on the field of university and research. I would point out that education, research and innovation have always been recognised as the driving force behind a country's social and economic progress, the only ones capable of creating sustainable and sustainable development. Unfortunately, in Italy this simple paradigm is not known or deliberately ignored. Why is this happening? I would like to draw your attention to a simple observation. The results of investment in universities and research are not always immediately visible, but have a return in the medium and long term. This has made such interventions particularly difficult to implement by a political class which has very often been more attentive to short-term electoral returns than to multiannual programming. Politics, ladies and gentlemen, has not yet understood the strategic importance of this sector. The results of this real cultural gap are reflected in the merciless comparison with other European countries. In fact, a recent Eurostat report puts Italy at the bottom of the ranking of the ratio of R &amp; D expenditure to GDP, at lower levels even in countries that have recently entered the European Union. The DEF presented to this House is particularly unsatisfactory from this point of view. In fact, if we scroll through the interventions in support of universities and research, the government spins figures on figures, as if they were those of a success. For example, we come to the section where we mention 1.6 billion of the ordinary research fund. The government is well aware of the fact that this year a linear cut of 5% was made on the ordinary assignments of the institutions (the last cut of a long series that has tightened even more the noose around the neck of the research institutions). Another example of these "objections," as it were, in the document are the 70 million euros allocated to research and development projects of national interest (the so-called PRIN call) and those for projects of young researchers (the FIRB call); also in this case the Government is well aware of the fact that these important voices have been the subject of indiscriminate cuts. Only four years ago the same calls paid more than double (€155 million). And what about other amenities in the DEF, such as the National Supplementary Fund for Scholarships? This year is EUR 55 million, but it is not said that in 2009 it was EUR 246 million. Or what about the turnover block that favors precariousness and brain drain? In this document, therefore, on the one hand, praise is praised for the objectives of investment growth, while, on the other hand, cuts are made well hidden from the voters. President Letta, only yesterday evening, during a well-known television show, said that he would resign if he had to make cuts in culture, universities and research. Of course, he didn't write this DEF, but at least read it well, inform yourself and comment on it, because I think his resignation is already written in there. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this House, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we can all be cohesive in our willingness to give the Government here, through our motions and resolutions, a clear and precise indication of a change of course that will finally guide our country towards a true and full knowledge-based society. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u36	He is registered to speak Senator Rossi Gianluca. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u37	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the loss of competitiveness and the delays of recent years are reflecting on the growth of unprecedented social and territorial gaps, which exacerbate the unresolved contradictions of our country in the most serious economic crisis in times of peace in its unitary history. Issues related to the balance of public finance and the use of political resources for the development of territorial systems and a strategy for growth made up of investments in human capital, innovation and research are the axes on which to invest for the necessary reform season in Italy. In a recent statistics on the tax returns of individuals in 2011, it appears that 5% of taxpayers with the highest incomes hold 22.9% of the total income, i.e. a higher share than that held by 55% of taxpayers with the lowest incomes. The policy of correcting public finance balances adopted over the last three years, moreover, has meant heavy effects on the levels of territorial government (especially for the Regions) and paradoxically without any distinction from the virtuosity of the same. The regions, in fact, contribute to return manoeuvres in a disproportionate way compared to their weight on spending, with a series of public finance measures that have a heavy impact on citizens. I mention only the main ones: reducing the resources provided for regional health systems; tightening the rules of the Internal Stability Pact; cutting and zeroing the transfer of the government's budget to unchanged functions; zeroing debt capacity without distinction. These figures are sufficient to show how the tax and redistributive policies of recent years have accentuated the spread of wealth among citizens and caused an widening of the gap between the different territorial areas of the country. In 2007, Italy's GDP was EUR 1,680 billion; five years later it was reduced to 1,567: we lost 113 billion, of which 72 billion were in the Centre-North and 41 billion in the Mezzogiorno. In this context, the production system has weakened to such an extent that between 2007 and 2011 the employed in the industrial system have been reduced by 15.5% in the Mezzogiorno and 5.5% in the Centre-North, where however there are evidence of worrying backwardness with reduced competitiveness and dramatic effects on employment levels, as evidenced by the use of social shock absorbers. Between 2000 and 2011 in Europe there was a trend towards convergence of GDP per capita, in principle the countries with the lowest levels in 2000 being those in which it grew the most and vice versa. In 2000, Italy's purchasing power (PPA) GDP per capita was 18 percent higher than the EU-27 average. The economic growth experienced by our country, the lowest in the Union, has meant that in 2011 Italy has found itself above the average of the EU countries at 27 of just 0.4 percent. This testifies to the ineffectiveness of development support policies that have not been able to guarantee more employment and new entrepreneurship, better social cohesion and modernisation of the provision of public services. Among the great systems of the Eurozone Italy is the country with the most important territorial inequalities. Comparing the per capita income of the three richest and poorest regions of the large euro area countries shows that Italy has the largest number of regions with less than 20,000 euros per capita: (seven compared to six in Spain, four in France and only one in Germany), with the income levels of the Mezzogiorno even lower than those of Greece. Among the factors that have led to the delay in the Mezzogiorno in the crisis period from 2007 to 2012 is certainly the inadequate use of Community funds. Contrary to what has happened in other countries with a marked territorial dualism, in Italy the convergence between the South and the North has never really been established, proof of this is the fact that in the next programming the estimate of the population subject to the Objective convergence will pass in Italy from 11 to 14% of the total, while other countries will see drastically decrease this percentage: Germany will go from 5.4% to zero percent and Spain from 9.1 to 0.9%. Although GDP remains a reliable indicator of well-being, it should be remembered that it does not take into account important aspects of people's lives such as health, quality of the environment, equal opportunities, levels of education and life expectancy, all factors (as assessed with the human development index, used by the United Nations) that cause severe inequalities between areas of our country; among them there is also the inability of the educational system to accompany development processes through the formation of a qualified human capital, effectively making the school-training-work path virtuous. As a result of public expenditure on education and training in the Mezzogiorno, i.e. 6.7% of GDP, compared with 3.1 percent in the Centre-North, there is a 21.2% drop-out rate in the South and 16 percent in the Centre-North, with a very high incidence of the Neet phenomenon (not in education, employment or training). All this gives us an extra responsibility in the face of the new Community programming 2014-2020. In fact, some strategic issues will need to be examined, starting with the issue of multi-fund regional programmes as an integrated territorial development strategy, the result of a rethinking of the sectoral intervention logics of both the ERDF and the ESF and of greater coordination with the EAFRD. The success of the new programming will depend on this, both with a view to simplifying management procedures to reduce burdens and in terms of the effectiveness of territorial policies, while respecting the strengthening of cohesion policy, as provided for in the Lisbon Treaty. The commitments made with the DEF, therefore, necessary to get out of the excessive deficit procedure as soon as possible, must result, unlike the past, in those structural reforms of the Italian system necessary to recover those margins of manoeuvre within the European constraints, indispensable to give answers to the difficult economic and social conditions in which companies, families and young generations live. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u39	Madam President, there is a question that has not been answered for decades: why does not a country like Italy, which probably holds the world's largest artistic and cultural heritage, have a general strategic plan for its protection and for its economic and tourist development? Spain, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Denmark, Poland, the Baltic States, virtually all European countries, have one and, among other things, have drafted it in the years of the beginning of the recent economic crisis 2007-2008. Italy doesn't. It is unlikely and unacceptable that while the Domus of gladiators in Pompeii collapsed due to neglect and mala management, other cuts to culture were decided. We all ask ourselves how never sectors such as theatre, music, cinema, visual arts, dance, the creative and cultural industry sector, which count about 1,400,000 employees, survive with difficulty, with a single Fund for the show that is just over half of what France allocates only for the cinema and audiovisual sector, which is often managed without a constructive and meritorious criterion, without any kind of tax-freeness, or almost, for those who do business in the sector. It seems almost useless to have to justify with serious and in-depth studies - which, moreover, support the thesis presented here - what to anyone with a little common sense is clear: not investing in our cultural heritage is a crazy act. Do not invest in a sector that alone could allow an increase from 3 to 5 points of GDP, and that currently (together the tourism and cultural sector) provides the very modest economic return of about 70 billion euros per year, means not only contributing to the slow destruction of an immense heritage, national and all humanity, but also depriving of a fundamental economic resource the already dramatic Italian financial situation. Culture is not only enterprise, work and wealth: it is also the fundamental component for the growth, realization and well-being of a people; it is the possibility for young people to have better future prospects and for the whole of society to evolve and express themselves to the best. Without culture we are nothing, we are without identity, helpless in the face of adversity and without the possibility of participating in any social and political life. Without culture, none of us today could properly fulfil our institutional obligations, nor exercise our rights, including the great honour of representing our fellow citizens now in this House, a task which must not become the privilege of a few. Culture and education, on the other hand, allow all citizens to carry out these important tasks, as our Constitution guarantees. We therefore ask that as soon as possible a strategic plan for the investment and management of the entire cultural and tourist sector, organic and consistent with short-term objectives but above all in the long-term; that finally we begin to provide a rational inventory of all the Italian artistic and cultural heritage, in order to plan concrete ways and investments to protect the same and in favor of the operators of the sector. The formidable Italian creative potential, combined with the extraordinary heritage mentioned above, favored by a technological and digital revolution that has allowed the lowering of the costs of cultural enterprise, can represent the way out of the economic crisis, but above all from the moral crisis, which impoverishes the coffers and consciences of the country. It is time to change the way and realize the good of the country and the Italians. This change necessarily passes from culture. Continuing with policies of subsistence and cuts, without a broader project and vision, with shameful political and administrative clientele modalities that emerge everywhere, is a criminal act... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u40	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Economic and Financial Document we are debating belongs to the political elaborations of the economic line of the previous legislature and therefore to the previous Government. 19:05 (URAS follow). The approval proposed to the Assembly is a clear statement that the electoral consultation and the broad and unequivocal demand for change, coming from the entire national community risk not having any effect, leading once again to a fracture between the electoral body and the government of the country. Unfortunately, we are faced with a confirmation and explicit continuity with the previous management of the national economy. With this measure we are within the line of recessive austerity, so much criticized in words as supported in fact by this anomalous majority PD, PdL and Civic Choice, and today tolerated also by the League. It is a line of economic policy that has now been dated, contested and in part opposed by authoritative bodies of the world economy as a failure to meet the intellectual objectives for which it was intended. For these and other reasons we wanted to present an alternative resolution to that of a majority as an act of clear opposition to this Government; a democratic and merit-based opposition, which matures on a civil and political-institutional level. We do not presume to shout that we are the only opposers, as if we needed to convince ourselves of a non-existent truth. We intend to make real opposition without discounts, in the interests of the country, of our territorial communities, of our Mezzogiorno exhausted by the crisis, of the workers and honest entrepreneurs who experience the hardship of unemployment and the prospect of failure, as well as of the many families thrown into poverty. The DEF against which we express ourselves, if it could be first understandable (in any case not justifiable for the particularly aggressive approach towards the world of production, of work, all oriented mainly to provide guarantees to the creditors of our immense public debt, grown in recent years for precise responsibilities of governments, in a particular way of center-right), is now in complete contrast to common sense and is against the necessity and urgency, recognized by all, to make policies of support for development and employment and to intervene to significantly and progressively reduce the social emergency, the spread of poverty, the collapse of confidence in overcoming the crisis, the abandonment of hope by many workers and entrepreneurs, young people and women, in search of employment, often of first employment. For this reason, we do not accept the view that the approval of the DEF can be technical in nature, able to guarantee the automatic conclusion of Italy's excessive deficit infringement procedure; it seems to us to be reductive and also a weak form of justification for the need to intervene on the DEF already at this stage. Its approval has the political significance of real and unconditional assent to the work of the previous Government, cold and waterproof to the social needs and local communities, to the living needs of many categories of workers in difficulty, to the needs of resistance of countless enterprises, especially of micro and small dimensions. In relation to the President-in-Office's policy statements, we awaited a real signal of amendment of the document, starting with the renunciation of the passages of self-celebration of the work carried out, the self-approval of the so-called structural reform projects, starting with that of the work which all of you today, declaring repentance after yesterday's adoption by a very large majority, seem to have been called into question. None of this has unfortunately been done and, after endless hearings in the special Commission, the end is identical at the beginning: no amendment, no act towards a path of change, only continuity with the past. However, it would have been important to make an assessment of the consequences of this work, contained in the data provided by all the main national bodies competent in the field of economy and public budget - from ISTAT to the Bank of Italy, from the Court of Auditors to CNEL - all of which were concerned about the serious social and employment situation of the national production system. Instead, everything is referred to the so-called Additional Note that the Government should elaborate. I say'should', because certainties, even on this point, are really vague. In fact, the contents appear decidedly uncertain, the subject of controversy over the priorities that have been activated in these days among the main parties that constitute this culturally and politically colorful majority. We - and not just ourselves - are, on the other hand, arguing that a radical amendment to the DEF should take action, above all, to start with expenditure, and not for small amounts. The estimate is credibly positioned among the 7, 8, 12, 15 billion, in relation to the resources to be allocated to the Integration and Mobility Fund also by way of derogation, exodus, eco-sustainable building renovations, the renewal of precarious public administration contracts, the service contracts of important public companies and, above all, for the lack of income (those that are expected in case of suspension, redefinition and overcoming of certainly unfair taxes such as the IMU on the first house of workers and pensioners) and the increase of indirect taxes that weigh predominantly on the weakest population groups in relation to the increase of the weight of VAT. Needless to linger on the analysis of the Italian situation: it is known and you have highlighted it, as well as the supporters of this unacceptable DEF. However, it is worth speaking out and expressing our opinion on what is absolutely necessary to start doing. Firstly, it is necessary to promote and support the rapid approval of an effective law to combat the conflict of interests; secondly, to restore and strengthen the control of legality throughout the economic, public and private cycle, in which traceability and limitation on the regularity of proceedings are assumed as strengths in the fight against mafias, repealing laws that reward non-virtuous behaviors, such as tax condonions and avoidances. At the same time, it is necessary to promote a law on trade union representation; to abolish Article 8 of Decree-Law No 138 of 13 August 2011, and to restore Article 18 of the Workers' Statute; to amend the labour legislation of Law No 92 of 28 June 2012; to increase the compulsory schooling to 18 years; to combat school dispersal, especially in the Mezzogiorno; to launch policies of right to study; to increase, under the National Research Plan, the indication of measures aimed at achieving European targets in relation to the percentage of GDP, which should reach 3% by 2020, to be invested in research and development; to republish the water service (also in implementation of a referendum); to reorganise local public services for user basins; to design the development of a real housing programme to respond to the need for housing, but at the same time to relaunch this important sector; to refinance the Rotary Fund for measures aimed at the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. Finally, many other issues of this nature need to be addressed. Above all, however, we must reaffirm the values contained in Article 5 of the Constitution on the protagonism of the autonomy and local communities, in contrast to the neo-centralist and authoritarian temptations that we have experienced in the national and European dimension, especially in recent months, because of the strategy of countering the crisis, a clearly bankrupt strategy, socially aggressive, politically risky, also for the maintenance of our democracy; above all we must think of local development as the most effective way to relaunch the values of work, the good and stable one, able to produce in a sustainable way, socially and ecologically, the goods and services useful to the communities, and in relation to the productive vocations of the places. European, national, regional and truly inclusive policies must be promoted to combat marginalisation and poverty, to support the creation of systems and practices aimed at promoting cooperation between territorial and different countries, starting with the relaunching of Euro-Mediterranean free trade policies. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, I have asked to take the floor to contribute to a serene assessment of the government action of the so-called technicians on the 2013 Economic and Financial Document. If the actions referred to in the document entitled "A year of reforms" aimed at stimulating competitiveness, promoting employment, improving the sustainability of public finances, strengthening financial stability had actually had their effect, the real country would have noticed. The experience of the Government of National Commitment, supported in Parliament by a large majority of political forces, has not allowed us to overcome the stalemate in which, because of the financial crisis of an international character, our country had entered. The program of interventions, carried out in a relatively short time, that has touched all the crucial sectors of the economic and social life of the Country, has not brought Italy out of the financial emergency. 45 laws and decrees-laws converted by Parliament were not sufficient, and 24 decrees delegated by law delegated by the Government. This action, supported by a large majority, I repeat, has not allowed the rebalancing of public finances. The guaranteed and stable governability and the expert and safe hand of the technicians have not yet brought us out of the waters of difficulty, that is to say in safe waters. Instead, to read the document signed by Senator Monti, it seems that in 2012 Italy reported the government deficit substantially in line with the recommendations at European level, below the threshold of 3% of GDP. In 2013, moreover, Italy will achieve a balanced budget in structural terms, fulfilling the commitment made in mid-2011 by the Italian Government at the time (I have never voted for a balanced budget). But it is now clear to families, small and medium-sized enterprises, traders, craftsmen and professionals that actions to restore the balance of public finances, which are still not certain, have increased the number of unemployed, young people and not, together with public debt, more than EUR 2 000 billion. In other words, the measurement of GDP and the percentage of debt granted do not allow us to measure the complex economic and social reality of our country. ISTAT also noticed this limit and, in conjunction with the National Council for Economic and Labour, has identified a new scoreboard, called fair and sustainable well-being. Considering that it is not possible to replace GDP with a single indicator of the welfare of a company, the ISTAT study group considered it necessary to select, with the involvement of all sectors of the community and the measuring experts, all the indicators considered to be the most relevant and representative of the welfare of each particular community, since in order to assess the progress of a given society it is also necessary to consider social and environmental parameters. The aim was to measure fair and sustainable well-being by analysing levels, temporal trends and distribution of the different components of fair and substantial well-being, in order to identify strengths and weaknesses, gender differences as well as particular territorial imbalances or disadvantaged or disadvantaged social groups, even from an intergenerational perspective. A not positive view of the Government of National Commitment, supported by a large parliamentary majority, is also obtained by observing the indices of the so-called "well being fair and sustainable" presented by ISTAT in March 2013. The report states: The Italian households traditionally have a high propensity to save and the ownership of the house, they also use debt to a limited extent and show an inequality of wealth which, in the European comparison, is less marked than that observed in income terms. The economic crisis over the last five years is showing the limitations of this model, accentuating inequalities between social classes, deep territorial differences and further reducing the already low social mobility. During this period some segments of the population and certain parts of the country have been particularly affected both by the reduction of jobs, and by the decrease in purchasing power that, between 2007 and 2011, has been reduced by 5%. As the crisis continued in 2011, the situation deteriorated: this is confirmed by the surge in indicators of material deprivation. Serious deprivation increases by 4.2 percentage points, from 6.9 to 11.1 percent, preceded by an increase in the risk of poverty in 2010 (based on 2010 income) in the Centre (from 13.6 to 15.1 percent) and in the Mezzogiorno (from 31 to 34.5 percent), i.e. an increase in income inequality. The report also states: Trust in parties, in Parliament, in regional, provincial and municipal councils, in the judicial system. A transversal distrust that crosses all segments of the population, all areas of the country, the different social classes. (...). In March 2012, the worst figure on the citizens' confidence in the institutions concerns political parties: the average confidence of citizens towards political parties, on a scale of 0 to 10, is only 2.3. (Follow Parliament with 3.6, local administrations with 4, justice with 4.4). The only "institutions" to which citizens express confidence are the Fire Departments and the Forces of Order, which together reach 7.1, as an average between the Fire Departments (8.1) (...) and the Forces of Order (6.5). In such a situation it is not surprising that political participation is low and decreasing. In 2009, during the last European elections, the voting rate was 65.1% (85.7% in 1979). The report follows: However, it should be noted that such participation is expressed at different levels: interest in public affairs is not necessarily translated into activities of support for politics in the strict sense, but it is also exercised by informing and exchanging views on the themes of Res Publica. (In 2012 the 14-year-old population remains stable at 67 percent and more involved in civil and political life, i.e. it speaks or informs itself of politics at least once a week or participates online.) In this regard, while there is an increase (...) from 12% to 17% of those who inform themselves through the Internet mainly among young people, still a large part of the population does not participate in any form in politics and the talk and information of politics is decreasing. Overall, however, citizens seem to be far from politics. Above all, women see it as a dimension outside their own interests. This is not surprising, given that the presence of elected members in parliamentary assemblies and the most important decision-making places in the public and private sphere continues to remain very low, as does the presence of young people in Parliament. These are opinions expressed not on the political side, but by the experts in economic and social evaluation of ISTAT. The latter also support the failure of the reforms of the Monti Government. I take this opportunity to outline the path of reforms that I have been supporting for years in Parliament and that I would like to see taken seriously by the new Government. In order to return to growth, investment is needed, but we need to invest in reforms at zero cost. There are many and very important reforms that can be done without raising public debt by a single euro. These reforms require on the one hand a clear separation between commercial banks and business banks, on the other hand, an intervention to return the Bank of Italy to the State. This is an important reform that should be taken seriously since a decree-law, with urgent measures for public finance, on which confidence was voted on by the Amato Government, at the time President of the Council, on 29 July 1992, with 288 votes in favour, 236 against and 24 abstentions, intervened on monetary sovereignty, i.e. on the difference between real power and commercial power, on the difference of money that once belonged to the people and to the Italian State and which today is bankers. It is time that Parliament took these two reforms seriously and that they were discussed in this House to get out of the crisis and try to solve 80% of the real problems in this country. [[Applause from Senator Iurlaro.]] Mr President, I would ask you to attach the full text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u44	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u45	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u46	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Economic and Financial Document falls this year at a very delicate time when the economic crisis is associated with a complex transition: political and institutional transition; the transition of Europe's own policy and mission and our role in European evolution; the transition of the economic and financial policy strategy. One phase has ended, another new, but still indefinite and uncertain, it must be opened. The DEF approved by the resigning government represents the connection between these two phases, indicates the goal achieved in the path of recovery, projects the effects of stabilization of the policies carried out in the last two years, but still does not indicate (it could not have done so) the new policies necessary to face the social crisis and the structural problems of our economy. It tells us, in the Document of Economics and Finance, of the management of the financial emergency faced by the Government Monti with results that, during all the hearings held by the Commissions, have been defined impressive, because it was impressive (and this was also recognized by the European institutions that are closing the procedure for excessive deficit) the structural consolidation of the public accounts: 40 billion euros of structural reduction of the expenditure to regime. And equally significant is the effect that in terms of greater growth will have in the mid-term projection of the reforms undertaken, especially those carried out in the first phase of the Monti Government, that is, before the Parliament re-emerged resistances and hostilities that in the second phase have weakened the drive to change, allowing dangerously glimpse the re-emergence of those resistances that for 15 years have blocked the Italian modernization. We avoided Italy being a commissioner, we regained international respect and credibility and we did so with the sacrifices of the Italians; sacrifices that the DEF certifies terms of an increase in tax pressure made even more burdensome because the impact of the recovery and the global crisis on the Italian economy, aggravated by a heavy public debt and structural problems resulting from the failed reforms of the last fifteen years. Now our responsibility is not to make these sacrifices in vain. The crisis interpreted for many months by the dramatic gap between the rates of our securities and those of German securities has highlighted all our fragility: an inefficient labour market; a school system incapable of responding to changes in the economic and productive structure; a low level of innovation; a high infrastructure deficit; a low level of female employment; public and private monopolies in services whose high costs and low quality affect the competitiveness of our companies; a public administration that is hypertrophic and inefficient. All the nodes have suddenly and dramatically come to the comb and when, when the fumes of political controversy have dropped, the history of these months will be rewritten not only will it be seen how in a very short time a turn has been made to the public accounts in order to make credible that objective of structural balance that unwittingly (and perhaps instrumentally) the previous Government had wanted to anticipate to 2013 but it will be recognized that the Monti government season has been among the few reforming seasons known from 1992 to today. And, on the other hand, it is only thanks to what has been achieved in recent months that today Italy, having regained a reliable financial stability and achieved significant reforms, can open a confrontation with Europe to identify margins of flexibility that allow to face the crisis, by sharing public investment. Now we must open the new phase: we must look to the future, but we cannot do this by giving the country new illusions. We cannot accredit the idea that all problems are solved and that the emergency is behind us. We cannot accredit the idea that growth can start again by abandoning the path of responsibility and reform. It is not possible to accredit the idea that growth can be shared with public expenditure in deficit. If, as the President-in-Office of the Council has said, one wants to speak the language of truth to the country and not let it go back over in the period of populism and demagogy, it must be done immediately, focusing on the real priorities, in order to get the economy back on track, without calling into question the stability of the accounts. From this point of view, the number one priority in the short term is to put liquidity into the system. In this sense, the intervention of the ECB is very appropriate, provided that the unlimited liquidity granted to banks now really reaches the real economy. The decree-law on the debts of the public administration is essential, but it must be strengthened, Minister, representatives of the Government. Other countries, such as Spain - which is certainly not better off than us - have made a full payment operation for the debts of the public administration. With regard to Italy, there has been a clear willingness of the European Union, on which the Monti Government has worked a great deal, and which was confirmed yesterday in an interview by Commissioner Tajani. We cannot have bureaucratic brakes and resistance on this point. This will be the first test bench of the Government about its ability to direct the administrative machine on its strategic objectives. Many times, in recent years, economic ministers have failed to do so and this has led to destabilising effects. This must not be repeated. The margins for a reduction in the tax burden are reduced and for this reason interests must be selective and targeted, capable of stimulating work and consumption. From this point of view too, it would be wrong to suggest that the possibilities which Europe can afford are capable of enabling Italy to finance expenditure or revenue reductions of tens of billions. It is therefore necessary to select well the interventions, taking care that they go in the sense of supporting, on the one hand, the activity of enterprise - and therefore employment - on the other, the consumption of households. That is why the reduction of the tax wedge must be given priority. This has been repeated by the OECD, the International Monetary Fund and other national and international bodies in every way. The reduction of IRAP on the wage mount is part of this category of intervention, as well as an intervention on the IMU, which is however limited to the lowest incomes and the most valuable real estate. A general elimination of the IMU for all categories of taxpayers and for all types of housing would, instead, be a uniform in Western tax systems: it would be profoundly unfair and would completely empty the pillar of local taxation. I do not believe that this can be sacrificed to political agreements which prescind from general interests and respond to different logics. In this case too, the language of truth must be spoken. We await, Minister, the Update Note to the Economy and Finance Document that you announced, in order to understand what will be the planning horizon of the Government. So far you have insisted on the invariance of the balances; one of your Deputy Minister has already announced the request to renegotiate the commitments in Europe and it has, moreover, been quickly redempted by Commissioner Olli Rehn. It would be advisable for the Government to speak with one voice on such sensitive issues and, above all, not to over-dissonance between so-called technical ministers and political vice ministers. But we also expect, Minister, that in the Update Note the prospect of reforms will be relaunched, on which in the programmatic declarations the government seemed, perhaps, excessively timid. Labour market reform; liberalisation; tax reform; radical reduction of administrative levels; digital transformation of production processes and administrative processes; reform of justice; fight for legality and corruption. These are fundamental issues, which have a strong economic value, in terms of the attractiveness of investments and the creation of an environment favourable to business activities, the enhancement of the new strategic sectors of the digital economy, culture, tourism and overcoming the contrast between rigour and growth. All of these issues, especially on the broad horizon outlined by the President-in-Office of the Council, must return to their core. We must make it clear to the country that only by addressing the problems that have hindered the Italian economy when the rest of Europe was running will we be able to engage the recovery, when it manifests itself. The vast coalition that supports the Government to this must serve, not to find agreement on minimalist solutions to the great problems of the country; everything on the contrary, as the President Napolitano urged us to do, must serve to overcome the sterility and minimalist results produced by the oppositions, calculations of convenience and political calculations that for years have characterized the confrontation between political forces in Parliament. Today the parties of the coalition have one last opportunity to demonstrate to the country that they are able to give effective answers to the Italian problems and to give a future and hope back to the younger generations. Only by continuing on the path of seriousness and reforms aimed at increasing the productivity and competitiveness of the system in all its sectors will we be able to play a role as protagonists in pushing Europe towards a kind of new deal involving our continent in a great plan of economic and social rebirth, which succeeds in transforming the great European heritage of history, civilization, culture and creativity into a newly competitive economy on a global scale. On the points that I have indicated the Civic Choice Group for Italy will ask that the majority resolution for the approval of the DEF give clear indications of direction and commitment that the Government can take into account in the decisions that will be taken shortly and in the elaboration of the Update Note that will be presented by June. On a line that combines stability, innovation, reforms and commitment to strengthening Europe's role as the protagonist of the global economy, Civic Choice for Italy will strongly support the action of the Government. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u47	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u48	It is easy to understand how the whole of the DEF is focused on an unlikely development programme, which is also entrusted to a number of already approved decree-laws. The measures of the old Government, which will hopefully be totally revised by the new, provide for investments of billions of euros for the great works, all aimed at the so-called strategic infrastructures, those known to us and always rejected because useless, expensive and extremely important: the TAV, the gas hubs, the regasifiers, the drilling, the biogas plants, the thermal enhancement of the waste, the so-called forest maintenance, that is nothing more than deforestation aimed at feeding the supply chain of the wood-cellulosic biogas, moreover inserted under the heading "decarbonization," forcefully considered substitute material of the coal. What characteristics do the above works have in common? What the financial plans have not been made public about them, and this is quite disturbing at a time of great scarcity of public funds. In general, even comparative cost-benefit analyses are not known; funding is not armored in order to guarantee its term of operation. The recent legislation, which allows to realize them for constructive lots instead of for functional lots, makes possible construction sites of infinite duration (in addition works with modest employment content). Among other things, the intention to operate dangerous administrative and bureaucratic facilities (DIA laws) is inherent in the measures. Then there are the forecasts according to which in the definition of the SIN the Government could circumvent the will of the Regions for the start of the works, especially energy; this means to unlock the construction of the regasifiers and to make a little 'of highways, to free the realization of power plants to biomass and to turbogas from the will of the Countries, to give the start to the drillings throughout the territory to the detriment of any structural danger afraid and the possible risk of pollution to the aquifers. Where the people protest, the Regions possibly hold back and the municipalities oppose, the Government will proceed to grant authorizations and to send the Army to the territories, as has already happened in Campania and in Val di Susa? What about the European Gendarmerie Force (Eurogendfor) tomorrow? It has been decided, among other things, that the State will no longer pay the damage caused by natural disasters for homes, businesses or any other damaged structure; citizens, abandoned to themselves, will have to prepare themselves in time for a related insurance policy, especially if in areas at risk: at what cost? For the rest, beyond easy green economy programmes, the growth package contains insufficient, marginal, uneven and uncertain measures in the area of building security, energy redevelopment and truly renewable energy. The funds for the deduction of 55% of the amounts paid for energy requalifications are set to end in June; the Fifth Energy Account is at the end of the line. Certainly, the evaluation lacked a careful analysis of the production systems that highlighted the direct and indirect costs, such as those of pollution and health, which would be decisive in the analysis to the point of overturning the decision-making process. We have definitely entered the era of the energy revolution whereby the diffusion of the microproduction of electricity is destined to take the place of the thermoelectric megacentrals (i.e. we are at the democratization of energy) supported by smart grids, i.e. a network of information that supports the distribution network in order to manage them intelligently, avoiding energy waste, overloads and falls of tension. It is necessary to get out definitively, and without any compromise or compensation, of all the great works; to intervene in strengthening the commuters' routes, rather than obliging them to use the private car; to strengthen, instead of cutting, the connections between the cities of the Nation; to strengthen and replace the public transport of small and large cities: our cities are collapsed. Finally, it is necessary to trigger a virtuous circle that progressively reduces the waste produced, placing deterrents to the production of waste, with the timely TIA tariff... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. NUGNES (M5S). ...and the definitive abolition of TARES, deterring non-recyclable products, encouraging the search for low-impact products and production link networks, so that a waste of production corresponds to the raw material of another production, until closing the last landfill, dismantling the last incinerator, the insane idea of burning the secondary solid fuel (CSS) in cement factories, placing the total recycling of matter and zero waste to zero combustion as a final goal, not only solution to the problem of waste, but cascade effect, in increasingly larger and more important sectors in the employment chain. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u49	Colleagues, just for the smooth running of the works, since the most unpleasant thing that exists is to remove the word to a person, I point out that one minute before it is indicated that the time available is about to end, then in that minute it is necessary to conclude. She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Undersecretary (to whom our good luck with the start of the new business at such a difficult time) we are today debating the Economic and Financial Document, which has always been one of the most important measures in a government's work schedule. This year, however, the document comes to the attention of this House after the peremptory deadline for submission to the European Union on 30 April. Now, given the complexity and importance of the measure, it clearly requires an accurate analysis of its content and an in-depth study, which, however, is not compatible with the particular Italian political situation that we have experienced in recent weeks. The delay with which we are debating today on the DEF and the obvious political situation, really exceptional, which finally led to the birth of a government only for a week, (a government of national emergency, which we of the North League wanted and required for a long time and which all the citizens looked forward to finally seeing the serious problems of the country), is not to be charged to splits within the great parties that now finally appear to be overcome, rather than to the opposition of others, perhaps indicating an inclination on the part of some - it would be to say - more to protest than to the proposal. In any case, we are going to approve this document in this House by means of a resolution which will be presented, which should take into account what was anticipated by the new Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Saccomanni, at the hearing he held in Parliament last Thursday, and which commits the Government to submit as soon as possible an update note to the document itself, so that Italy can, with official documents, represent its actual political orientations and, above all, the national reform plan which is fundamental to us, given that the new President of the Council has already begun to present these policy points in the European forums, in the context of the gates. In any case, of course, the priority to be given to closing the excessive deficit procedure, which should take place - as we all know - on 29 May and of which we are all aware. However, the work that Italy is now called upon to do, which must be put to the attention of all of us, is undoubtedly what must be directed towards growth, certainly within the boundaries of consolidation and respect for budgetary commitments, but the priority and the real emergency is to restart development. [[Applause from Senator Bellot.]] The economic condition of the country, which is analysed in detail by the measure, would advise to work more, fomenting less unnecessary polemics. So much so that we here today, ladies and gentlemen, are witnessing the continuing recession of a country that is now increasingly agonizing. As a whole, to analyse DEF data, the public finance framework appears to be improved in its primary surpluses, but the debt problem remains. GDP data are sadly eloquent (-2.4% in 2012), with an industrial output of €1,389 billion last December, falling by almost €24 billion compared to the same period of 2011. You can't even smile when you look at indicators such as the deficit-GDP ratio, where the current value projected for 2013, equal to 2.9 percent, below - it seems - the famous bar of 3%, but it costs an overestimate of more than one percentage point compared to what the outgoing government predicted no later than last October. Among other things, the data from the last few days that are being prepared by the European Commission on a deficit of 3.3% and an up-and-coming debt of 134.2% in 2014. In reality, it has not been that a few months since the Monti Government, within the law of stability, predicted a trend in net debt for 2013 in the order of 1.8%, while today we discover, analyzing the data of this Document, I repeat, only a few months away, that in reality the value is much greater. And that's certainly not random. Nor can we try to justify this negative trend with the effects of the highest payments of the public administration authorized by the recent Decree No 35, which we of the North League wanted and urged for a long time. The main cause of this overestimation is to be found in the negative development of the country's growth. Last year, in fact, the outgoing Government expected GDP for 2013 to fall by only 0.2 percentage points compared to 2012, which had also been a horrible year for our economy. It is now discovered that the crisis will bring this value to -1,3 per cent, i.e. to the economic recession, which will not end this year either. In fact, we are talking about a 1.5% decrease in GDP for 2013 and a 0.5% increase for 2014. If we look at unemployment figures, which are particularly close to our heart, we cannot help but be alarmed. Those figures are, to say the least, worrying, because in the new European Commission forecasts unemployment will reach 11.8% in 2013 and will break the 12% threshold, reaching 12.2%, in 2014, against the estimates made in February, respectively, of 11.6 percent and 12%. Although it is true that Brussels says that a stabilisation will finally be expected in 2014. The loss of competitiveness that we have seen in Italy is due to wage dynamics that are not related to productivity. We have been saying this for a long time, and ISTAT and CNEL also noted this at the hearing of the Special Committees in joint session. How, then, has it been possible to predict growth rates, when it becomes apparent, only a few months later, that this recovery does not actually exist? Do we have to think that perhaps the excessive optimism of those who preceded us, of those who preceded this Government, which is undoubtedly blameless, has led to completely unfounded or unsupported overevaluations by empirical checks? Maybe it was someone's campaign mistakes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On the other hand, however, we witnessed in 2012, and especially in the last three years of the year concluded, a real collapse of the Italian economy that literally stopped. No mystery, therefore: what we are witnessing today is only the logical consequence of fiscal and economic policies that have made the increase in taxation its own and only lighthouse. We come to the IMU, a very controversial issue these days. With the payment of the second installment of the IMU, in fact, the Italian economy has seen the collapse of the domestic demand: the citizens have had to support a new tax, investing their resources not in activity or in goods, but in a tax so heavy that it completely blocks the Italian economy. And now that we are no longer the only ones to say it, but also the data, the real ones, the final ones, what is presented to us? To review the IMU, to suspend its application for the month of June, to re-modulate it, to alter the application of the TARES (which is yet another gabella planned at the end of 2011). We have always believed that the IMU is an extremely unfair tax: not because it represents a form of real estate taxation, but because it applies indiscriminately, in many areas of the country, on the basis of a land registry that is not updated with respect to the real market values. Of course, it will not be the North League that will prevent two such recessive and burdensome taxes from being revised or, perhaps, deleted. But it would be good for someone to rethink the days when the representatives of the North League, with various interventions in the parliamentary classrooms, already said that housing tax was unfair, or that the tax on waste was excessive. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Taxes that fuel, and feed, a situation of economic recession heavily burdening the budgets of households, businesses, productive activities and businesses. The North League first fought to block such impositions, instead to apply a true federalism, to adopt a real municipal tax, whose revenue - we always say - must and must be able to remain in the territories that produce it, and not become a state gabella disguised. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Today, however, we discover that, in the face of the merciless numbers highlighted by the DEF, the current Government wisely decides to rethink certain choices, unfair as little far-sighted. The time of austerity has come to an end, and if those who today rule the country really want to relaunch our economy, businesses and work, they will have to reconsider choices of the past that have not been seen. It's really time to change the record. The remodulation of the IMU, which we are talking about at this time, and the suspension of the June instalments, concern us to the extent that it is necessary to find cover and to give guarantees to the municipalities of adequate compensation. What sums can be advanced to the municipalities in order to compensate for the lack of income? Should the municipalities be returned the total amount which they had planned to collect in June, i.e. including the own rate (remember that the base rate is 0.4%, but it is subject to an additional increase), or only the amount equivalent to the amount they would have received at the base rate only? That's a big difference. In the first case, the state should anticipate an estimated figure of about EUR 2-3 billion, while in the second case a figure of about 1.4 billion, but the municipalities would remain a hole in the budget to be filled. That's why we're worried. Also the hypothesis, which circulates, that the municipalities could download such failure to take on second houses or shops worries us. For this reason, we ask that we proceed with common sense and attention. There is also talk of the establishment of a special fund to reduce public debt, which could be increased by the value of public real estate, i.e. by the real estate of the State and other securities, such as concessions. In any case, we believe that the new Government and the new Ministers should be tested first. We have no prior preclusions, or preconceived positions on this Government. We expect, however, this yes, the due attention for that part of the country, the territories of the North, which are still, despite everything and despite more and more, the driving force of the economy of the entire country, heart, head and economic-productive engine. North that with its enterprises must be protected. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That is why we are talking about macro-regions, homogeneous macro-areas, productive and economic. That is why we say that we must retain the resources on the territories that those resources produce, in order to revive development there. How can you get out of a situation of stagnation by flowing this data? Competitiveness and development policies are needed to restart demand. We have been saying this for a long time: we need measures that mitigate the recessive impact of the measures taken. And it is necessary - and we would like to emphasise this even more strongly today, with a new Government intending to present its programmes in the most important European fora - to take into account the maintenance of the 3% threshold in the deficit-GDP ratio in Europe, but also the enormous efforts that Italy has made, which the Italian citizens have made so far, and to make this happen in Europe. The austerity policies undertaken have been and are very heavy but there can now only be austerity. That is why we expect a period of reforms really to be launched in the sense of modernising the machinery and the state apparatus, towards a form of federal government, a concrete federalism, which brings a revision of public spending that can reduce the inefficiencies and excessive tax pressure that has now reached unsustainable levels even for the bravest of entrepreneurs. This is the only hope for the efficiency of the system, the empowerment in the management of public resources, the deburocratization, against waste and waste, because, let's not forget, it is the excessive burden of the public that weighs on the private to block the economy. And this is what the country expects. Therefore, we expect, for example, that the new Minister Zanonato defends and knows how to represent citizens and Venetian and North businesses within the national government. This calls for, as today, the Northern League Group. This is a particular situation. It can come out if, however, politics can play its part, if everyone will play their part and if they will seriously compare on these issues, all sectors, without particularistic logics or corporatisms, but properly. Then he'll be able to get out. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Compagnone and Fucksia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u51	She is registered to speak Senator Pignedoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, having to intervene on a document produced in the middle between an outgoing government unable to introduce political guidelines and a newly established government, we are aware that we have today a partial document in discussion, limited to the photograph of the summary: the Stability Programme, the structural consolidation of public finances, an objective achieved for 2012 with the reduction of the public deficit below the 3% threshold, in line with what is planned at European level and with the expected achievement of the budgetary balance in structural terms for 2013. Italy will come out of the excessive deficit procedure in which it entered in 2009, a result absolutely not taken for granted, a positive figure. But the analysis of fiscal adjustment cannot be merely arithmetic. It is essential to think about how this result has been achieved for the containment of public expenditure: we have achieved it above all in the way of blocks and roofs. No selective activity, no real revision of public expenditure; a spending review that has resulted too many times in an acceptance that has struck everyone in a linear way, too undifferentiated; almost never an analysis of the centres of expenditure or measurements of the levels of efficiency of the services. That goal that was to start a revolution in the public system, rewarding the virtuous and penalising waste and inefficiencies. Yes, budgetary balance has been achieved, but the effect of this logic, of this indiscriminate cut, together with an unsustainable tax pressure, in a strong international economic crisis, was that the result was achieved but at the cost of heavy sacrifices by citizens and businesses. Despite these sacrifices, the three factors of crisis in this country have remained unchanged or even deteriorated in the indicators, and the situation today is repeated in all its drama: too much inequality, too much debt, too little growth. In a scenario of such great concern, in the midst of so many critical issues reported by the Document, I would like to focus on the theme of growth, that is, on hope, on potentialities. This was well said by President Letta: sometimes our tendency to self-pity is equal only to the admiration that Italy arouses abroad. I would like to talk about this and I would like us to talk more about the potential, the trust that the world has in our productions. If domestic demand is gradually falling, export data, counter-trend, are growing and among all emerges the comforting data of agro-food. There is a surprising increase in the demand for Italian food in foreign markets and not only in traditional ones within Europe or the United States; there is a breath of curiosity and growing interest that comes from emerging countries, from Asian markets in particular, those who ask, in an exponential growth, Italian food, Italian style. In 2012 there was an increase of 7 percent compared to 2011; already in the first two months of 2013 there was a further increase of 6.5 percent compared to the previous year; in 2012 the incidence on total turnover almost 20 percent. Of the 9 billion euros worth of Italian wine produced over 50 percent is exported. Unexpected phenomena, such as the increase in the export of beer to Northern Europe, even to Germany. We export Italian sparkling wine to the homeland of champagne, in France; even Italian rice to China: unexpected data until a few years ago. All this tells us how made in Italy is a brand (as we say today) of great attraction. "Yes, brands, the right word, that does not find an adequate translation, meaning not only the product itself, but also the set of values, contents and knowledge that our country inspires, that is, new values of competitiveness, on which our entrepreneurial system of agro-food must measure itself, and service content increasingly targeted and personalized; but also values in materials on which our country has great credit in the world. We are talking about over 31 billion euros of Italian agri-food export turnover in 2012: never reached such a high figure. But the good news is that there are huge margins to grow. A figure for everyone: 60 billion euros have been estimated for the turnover of fake Italian food. This fact expresses the sense of the urgency of a struggle without a neighborhood to illegality, counterfeiting, to the deception of Italian sounding; but it also gives us the dimension of the real existing market space. There is a question of Italian food that today is betrayed in the worst way, a space that we are not able to occupy with an entrepreneurial response of genuine, safe, guaranteed, high quality productions. We know, from what our wineries say, of pasta and oil, that the orders coming from Korea, Japan, China, Brazil are far superior to the possibilities of offering. Our manufacturing companies are not able to respond because they are not sufficiently structured in production capacities, in appropriate commercial networks, in appropriate organizations and professionalism. Therefore, we are at the paradox: on the one hand a potentiality and an exponential growth of the demand for Italian food, on the other our entrepreneurial system, which is not equipped to answer you. The organisation is insufficient, fragmentation is maximum. Even worse: while there are emerging market segments in search of cultural and food and wine distinctiveness, too many producer companies do not have sufficient margins and surrender, they close for lack of income or for lack of generational turnover. In 2012 there were 16,791 farms that closed down. While the whole world is mobilizing for the food issue, for the alarm on food insufficiency, our country, known for its food excellence and the preciousness of its products, continues to consume valuable soil. The contradiction is so high that only a country as a whole can find the strength to reverse the course. He can do so if he has the true awareness of the treasure he possesses, if he succeeds in translating beauty, landscape, health into economic opportunities and new employment in agriculture, professionalism and specialization. A country that believes in its own heritage and knows it realizes that now is the time of a project Country on agro-food in the world, reverses the route and activates to stop the shopping of foreign investors of quality brands. There is a need for a project of internationalization of Italian agro-food courageous and immediate. There is a need for an extraordinary export plan to support business networks and new skills. There is a need for a draft simplification of administrative procedures and controls. There is a need for a simplification of the governance of the agricultural ministerial bodies: too much dispersion, too much overlapping of functions, little efficiency and little transparency. [[Remembrances of the Presidency]] Mr President, I would just like to ask you for a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u53	You have a few seconds to finish the speech, Senator, otherwise I invite you and authorize you to deliver the text of the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u54	PIGNEDOLI (PD). There is a fourth point, which seems not to be on the subject with the agricultural sector: that of territorial security. I come from that Emilia devastated in 2012 by unimaginable events, such as earthquake, drought, snowfall and hydrogeological failure. President Letta said so and I would like to take this opportunity to propose it again here. The state of emergency has been requested. We believe and rely on the commitment that the President has made in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u55	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u56	Mr President, Senators and Senators, this is my first speech and I imagined it exactly this way. I imagined it in a semi-empty Chamber, almost like the desert. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Much has been said about respect for institutions and roles. The empty benches justify the respect that all those who are absent have for their role and for the institutions themselves. Given this, the National Reform Plan (NRP) highlights how both the urgent short-term problems caused by the crisis and the structural issues of the country's economy have been addressed. With this in mind, the document introduces, among the main measures to be taken, national development policy for entrepreneurship in favour of innovation and internationalisation. It stressed that Italy has a significant role to play in the international tourism sector, but that it does not keep pace with the growth of the sector and tends to lose market share vis-à-vis its traditional European competitors. Tourism, however, represents a significant sector for our country with a significant weight in the national economy, generating more job opportunities than other industrial sectors considered priority. It is the view shared by economic operators in the sector that tourism has enormous potential from a cultural, political and economic point of view, especially in the face of the deep economic and financial crisis. The development of the sector represents a valuable opportunity that the country cannot miss, especially in the light of the significant employment opportunities especially in the Mezzogiorno. The NRP highlights that the Strategic Plan contains an analysis of the Italian tourist criticalities such as the difficulties of the governance of the sector, the fragmentation of the promotion abroad, the dwarfness of the enterprises, the limits in the ability to construct competitive tourist products, the insufficient infrastructure, the inadequacy of the training of the staff and the difficulties to attract international investments. Faced with these challenges, the Strategic Plan proposes some guidelines and identifies a significant number of concrete actions that should rapidly improve the competitiveness of the sector. With regard to the governance profile of the sector, local or regional action is unable to provide the necessary impetus to the tourism sector that the new international framework requires. The national dimension must be more and more integrated with the local dimension. In the interests of more effective coordination, the central theme of State-Region relations in the field of tourism needs to be addressed. Apart from any constitutional changes, action must be taken to promote the creation of a central administrative structure capable of dealing with the relevant decision-making centres. Concrete measures are needed to increase the quality, responsible and sustainable tourism that respects the environment and the characteristics of the local community, and to optimize the competitiveness of the offer and the quality of the Italian tourist system. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u57	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bianco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies Senators and Senators, representatives of the Government, I am speaking on a specific area of the DEF 2013, the area of health expenditure, which, although within its limits, I believe can well be representative of the Document as a whole both from the technical point of view, central to the cycle of economic and financial planning and budgetary, and under the more strictly political one, is the opportunity to look to the past but above all to imagine the future of the country's economic and budgetary policies, in a European key. These are the textual words of the incipit of President Monti's presentation. At the appointment with the fiscal tightening on public budgets, which became more stringent in Europe after the Stability and Growth Pact and emerging in the second half of 2011 for the facts that you know, health spending presented itself with a growth dynamic strongly reduced over the period 2007-2012, with an average growth rate of 1.7%, which is far from that 6.4% average that had characterized the period 2000-2006. There have been and still are many determinants of a trend in health spending growth, some of which are structural to the evolution of the health system. I would like to mention a few: the introduction of new technologies and new, more expensive medicines, which, at least in the first phase, are added and do not replace old practices or old drugs; the ageing of the population, which expands the audience of the recipients of complex health and socio-health services long term. Other determinants are instead the expression of some problems that have not been resolved, or at least ambiguity. From the institutional point of view, I am thinking of the division of tasks and functions between the State and the Regions; the delays in organizational and management innovation; a plurality of corporate models largely insufficient to govern the complexity of the production of services characterized by a very high density of professional skills and ethical and civil values with few equals in the world of production. To this is added the weight, the burden of pockets of technical inappropriateness, of organizational and management inefficiency, of improper proximity between the search for political consent and administrative management and even of merit and professional quality. Finally, isolated but nevertheless alarming, corruptive phenomena and malavitous pollution are to be recorded. However, we must strongly reject a drift that sometimes emerges also in the debate and in the communication, according to which our National Health Service is an unbearable cost, an inefficient and ineffective wheelchair: it - in reality - is, albeit with all its limitations, a great and extraordinary technical-professional, civil and social work that guarantees research and development, qualified employment and above all, according to the principles of universalism and equity, social cohesion and civil identity to our country. In the coming weeks, the Ecofin Council of the European Union, at the end of May, will sanction our country's exit from excessive deficit procedures. The DEF data tells us that our health care did, as was said a few months or years ago, its homework. The sector's public expenditure in 2012 is, in absolute value, slightly higher than that of 2009; for 2013 expenditure growth in 2012 is reported to be around 0.2 percent, while from 2014 to 2017 an increase with an average rate of 1.9 is indicated, compared to a contextual forecast of growth in nominal GDP higher. This differential leads to an estimate of public health spending on declining GDP, reaching in 2017 the value of 6.7%, which would strengthen our position in the European Union to 15 among the lowest-spending countries, in percentage terms of GDP and absolute per capita. The heavy measures put in place by the Berlusconi and Monti Governments, which, in conjunction with each other, resulted in public definancing by the National Health Service over the period 2010-2014 for a cumulative amount of €25-30 billion (this according to different estimates). Faced with this, I share what has been said by several authoritative and third parties: the National Health Service cannot bear any further public definancing policies, except for the unacceptable fall of universalism and fair access to benefits. In this regard, I recall what President Errani said, that, in representing the unanimous thought of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, he asked that the financing of the regional health services provided in 2012 remain such also for 2013, avoiding the net cut of one billion and denouncing the devastating effect on the maintenance of the systems of the forecast relative to 2014 of ulterior two billion share of the citizens to the costs of the services. Tickets have risen, tax pressure has increased, regional rates have risen, especially in regions subject to return plans, and the figures are very close to those of the IMU on the first house. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by recalling the fact that, a few days ago, the Director-General of the World Health Organization, at the end of a meeting, said on the impact in Europe of the economic crisis on health policies. So I quote: In times of crisis, it is perhaps even more important to protect the financing of health systems, as health needs can grow rapidly; ensuring access to health services is a crucial aspect of a wider social security network (...) inappropriate cuts can only worsen health systems. That (...) they must do everything to minimize waste and pursue propriety. Here, Mr President, in addressing the reform agenda, including the DEF Update Note, but more incisively in the law of stability, we will have to remember in our choices of this, because this is the Europe we are looking at: the Europe of equity, solidarity, the universalism of the fundamental rights of the citizen. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u59	Senator De Pietro is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u60	Mr President, senators, senators, members of the Government, with regard to the development cooperation commitments contained in the Document on Economics and Finance, the 5 Star Movement considers that a reform of the rules concerning development cooperation is necessary. This is in the light of the often unsatisfactory results of some of the interventions that have taken place in recent decades. Often the aid provided by the donor countries and the international bodies in charge not only did not have an appreciable impact on the development of the beneficiary countries, but at times ended up indirectly financing corrupt regimes and personalistic interests. However, in spite of these inefficiencies, many aids have positive results. In recent years Italy has implemented a policy of decreasing the level of financial participation in cooperation. The 5 Star Movement hopes, also in order to re-launch the international profile of the Country and our presence in strategic areas, that actions are taken for a gradual realignment of Italy to the international standards of financing planned for development cooperation, focusing better the Countries and Regions of intervention in which the participation of Italy with the local realities is more appreciated, beginning at the same time to work so that the methodologies of intervention and the results can be improved. In addition, given the need to save scarce State resources and efficient management, it is appropriate to reduce the burden of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' fixed management costs through careful analysis and re-evaluation of expenditure, in order to recover resources to be allocated to the implementation of the various policies, and in particular development cooperation. Special consideration should be given to the management cabin of the Agency for Foreign Trade. In order to ensure effective action in the context of its integration of diplomatic representations and offices abroad, it is necessary to clarify its composition, decision-making, administrative linking, in accordance with the activities carried out by the Regions. The Agency should be organised and managed in such a way that it can provide concrete and incisive support for the internationalisation of Italian companies. Moreover, we consider it urgent to re-evaluate the opportunity of every single military mission abroad, not only from the point of view of economic sustainability, an argument already convincing in itself, but also in compliance with the dictates indicated by Article 11 of the Constitution. Given that Italy participates with a considerable number of men and means in the ISAF (International Security Assistance Force) NATO-led mission, constituted following UN Security Council Resolution 1386 of 2001, then extended and extended by UN Resolution 1510 of 2003, both last recalled by Resolution 2069 of 2012, it is considered, in the general framework of saving and reallocation of resources, that an advance exit of the Italian military contingents from the mission in Afghanistan, already prefigured for 2014, would allow to devote to development cooperation, especially rural, in Afghanistan, the equivalent of the unused financial resources. Furthermore, at an economic stage such as the current one, one of the few instruments at our disposal to reduce the tax burden and to take those urgent and necessary measures to give relief to citizens and boost the economy, is to reduce unproductive current public spending, eliminate waste and identify all possible savings, without reducing the quality of services offered to citizens. The savings obtained in any sector of the public administration, and therefore also from the early withdrawal of the Italian military contingents from the mission in Afghanistan, could be reallocated, as well as for the strengthening of development cooperation in Afghanistan, also to restore vitality to the Italian small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone and peculiar characteristic of our production system, in order to lighten the tax pressure on labour, which has become unbearable, as well as for social policies and health. We therefore hope that, with the resources saved from the early withdrawal of military contingents from Afghanistan, for example, we can establish a fund or appropriate instruments for the support of small and medium-sized enterprises operating in our country, which are in serious financial conditions due to the continuing economic crisis. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u61	Colleagues, in order to organize our work, I put to your attention the proposal to end with the speeches in general discussion at 9 p.m., and then leave room for the speeches at the end of the sitting. If no comments are made, then we can decide at 9 p.m. to postpone the continuation of the general discussion on the DEF to tomorrow's sitting. Senator Gatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u62	Mr President, we are in a very special condition that we have received the DEF from a Government in extension and that we have to express ourselves through a resolution that commits a Government other than the one that the DEF had sent us. From an economic and financial point of view, the 2013 DEF pursues the objective of maintaining the budgetary balance in structural terms during the reference period, while, from the point of view of structural reforms, it merely lists the initiatives needed to implement the reforms already approved by Parliament and to take stock of what was achieved in 2012. The National Reform Plan does not include an agenda of interventions and reforms deemed necessary for the future, but merely describes the conclusions of the initiatives taken by the past Government. The prerogative to formulate lines for the future, which presuppose political-legislative choices or the launch of new policies of wide scope, has been left to the new Government. The latter gained the confidence of the Senate on April 30 and this determines the delay in the process of the provision to our examination. The new Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Saccomanni, invited Parliament at its hearing on 2 May to approve the document which had been presented to us at unchanged balances and added: The Government undertakes to submit an additional note to the DEF within a time-frame compatible with the closure of the excessive deficit procedure, by which it will be able to fully assume the strategic objectives recently expressed by the President of the Council. On the basis of the structural consolidation of public finances proposed by the DEF, the ECOFIN Council of the European Union in May will - and I very much hope - decide on Italy's exit from the excessive deficit procedure it entered in 2009. However, as highlighted by the DEF data, the adjustment of public accounts, carried out in forced stages in the short term of one and a half years and in a context of strong international economic crisis, has taken place at the cost of heavy sacrifices by citizens and businesses. But not only that. The contraction of the economy has worsened, resulting in the loss of many jobs, and the social hardship and the territorial gap between North and South of the country have widened. In short, inequalities have increased. According to CENSIS, Italy is the country with the most significant territorial inequalities among the major Eurozone systems. If we analyze the IRPEF declarations, we observe that the Region with the highest average total income is Lombardy (23,210 euros), while Calabria stands at 14,230 euros. Faced with a national average income of 19,655 euros (let me say something already mentioned by Senator Rossi), the income levels of the Mezzogiorno are lower than those of Greece (17,957 euros in the South, 18,454 euros in Greece). With regard to inequalities, it seems to me significant that the Centre-North, with 31,124 euros of GDP per capita, is close to the values of the richest countries such as Germany, where GDP per capita is 31,703 euros. Mr President, the problem is that in 2011 there was a further widening of the North-South gap compared to 2010. That is why it seems to me important that Mr Saccomanni said in his hearing: The path that the new Government will trace will have to be more oriented to growth, combining European stability policies with actions decided for the resumption of economic activity and employment. And it is on the employment and development binomial that I would like to make only a few reflections, starting precisely from the data of the DEF that has been delivered to us, but also from the program that the President of the Council has presented to us and on which he has received the confidence, waiting to be able to discuss the Additional Note. The recovery of employment is primarily a result of sustained economic recovery and, as President Letta has pointed out, requires a comprehensive set of measures which will enable domestic demand to be shared, solutions to be found for the greater competitiveness of our economic system and, by this way, to increase the level of total productivity of factors. First of all, the definition of industrial policies, which have been absent in our country for too many years, is urgent. It is necessary to identify the strategic sectors for the growth of the country and to invest continuously on them. This can create confidence in companies operating in those sectors and free them from the uncertainty that acts as a brake on investment. The 2013 DEF for 2013-2017 provides for an increase in the unemployment rate in the years 2013 and 2014, respectively to 11.6 percent and 11.8 percent, and then gradually to fall due to the expected economic recovery to 10.9 percent in 2017. This means that, if nothing changes, the exit from the economic crisis will take place without the absorption, in percentage terms, of the jobs lost since 2008. And if this problem involves Europe as a whole, we must not forget that our unemployment rate is twice that of Germany, and very far from that of the United Kingdom, Japan or the United States, and that the activity rate of the working age population has the same negative trend. ISTAT also tells us that the search for staff by companies decreases and the reduction concerns all sectors of the economy. This situation is not acceptable, our first objective must therefore be to generate work, then we must promote entry to work especially for young people and women, particularly in the South, we must encourage it, using all the levers, including the fiscal one, with a particular attention however: we will have to find innovative solutions, also use exceptional tools, without ever leading to the devaluation of the work and the rules, which we have already known and which degrades the work and the worker. I would just like to recall, Mr President, what the President-in-Office said about the urgency of the matter: Without growth, even the emergency measures we are committed to and which I repeat here - refinancing of the supplementary funds by way of derogation, overcoming the precariousness also in the public administration, would be insufficient. In particular, with exodus workers the national community has broken a pact and the structural solution of this issue is a priority commitment of this Government. I think that with the time needed for urgency, the necessary insights and the cohesive participation of all the levels of government involved, solving these emergencies is an essential first step. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u63	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, representative of the Government, the Economic and Financial Document deals - we consider marginal - with the important issue of the necessary growth in the international markets of our small and medium-sized enterprises. As is well known, Italy has an economic structure based on an extensive network of small and medium-sized enterprises that, due to their size and vocation, are struggling to withstand international competition and maintain quotas both in the national market and in international markets. The need to promote the international development of our small and medium-sized enterprises, although expressed in the DEF, is therefore dealt with in an inefficient and de facto way, in our view, ineffective. Although positive, there is a forecast of a directing booth on the export and foreign relations front, which includes Regions, Provinces and the main agencies and associations of category, under the guidance of the Ministers of Economic Development and Foreign Affairs, it is not clear how, created by the Government, the new process of shared planning of promotional activities between the Agency ex ICE, chambers of commerce and other entities involved. It is not certain that such a system will bring greater efficiency, given past vicissitudes. The criteria for a good assessment of the costs and benefits of such a method need to be defined more clearly. The information on how the Government reorganized the Agency is rather general and does not indicate what good practices have been successful and what have not been successful. Only past experiences can assess where to improve, where and how to correct the procedures used. This effort does not seem to have been made. The Government has also provided for the establishment of consortia in order to internationalise SMEs. In this context, greater simplification and understanding of the mechanisms set out must be sought. Access to finance, for example, is limited only to consortia of at least five small and medium-sized enterprises from three different regions. The characteristic industrial distribution of small and medium-sized enterprises in the so-called localized industrial districts makes it unlikely that a consortium between small and medium-sized enterprises of three distinct regions will exist. We believe that this constraint should be relaxed in order to facilitate access to funds. It is also planned to set up a revolving fund for the granting of soft loans for the development of foreign market entry programmes and feasibility studies and technical assistance in support of a greater international presence of Italian companies. It is not clear, however, what this fund consists of, or what its financial coverage is. It is also expected that a single stable coordination point will be established, the Desk Italia, which will serve as a link between the activities carried out by the former ICE Agency, Invitalia and the chambers of commerce, but it is not clear what the effective coordination and interface between these institutions is. The national export plan 2013-2015 aims to reverse the trend that has seen the decrease in the share of world export reported to Italy from 3.8 to 3.3 percent. This is a clear sign of difficulty to compete on the part of the Italian system. This plan identifies some actions defined strategic and fundamental in order to achieve the objective of strengthening the Italian export to beyond 600 billion by 2015, but it is not specified which the agencies involved will be. On this front there is no concrete strategy for promoting and, above all, defending Italian brands against counterfeiting. We fear, ultimately, that these interventions, which we consider to be uneven and disorderly, will be ineffective in order to relaunch Italian exports and to achieve an international dimension of our small and medium-sized enterprises. We wanted to stress here the main problems that we see in the DEF, while referring our proposals to the minority resolution that we will present. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, pursuing in the wake of the best tradition, there is also absolute deafness in this DEF 2013 on the issues of agriculture. And it is this area that I would like to concentrate on in my brief speech. In the DEF there are very rare references, however, through fragmentary tables or passages, but there is no organic information, neither on the work done so far - in fact very little - nor on the lines of action for the future. In the hundreds and hundreds of pages that compose and accompany the Document there are only three pages - I say three - with the annual breakdown for Italy of the appropriations for Community support for rural development, covering the period 2007-2013, equal to € 8.2 billion of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. It is an inattention that leaves perplexed thinking that this DEF is the result of the work of a technical government, evidently so technical that it does not have awareness of the characteristics of anti-cyclicality of the primary sector; not to take into account the commercial performances, especially in terms of export, of our excellences; not to notice that the indicators of birth-mortality of the enterprises are decidedly better for the farms. This is not a return to the fields fleeing from the crisis of the cities, but more simply a strong signal than the facts (some would say the market) recognize the strategicity of the Italian agri-food system, a tangible example of the real economy, a fundamental driver for a lasting and solid process of national socio-economic development. Moreover, this system is subject to numerous pressures, such as the presence of new aggressive and capable competitors, the opening of increasingly large markets with enormous potential for development, the diversified consumption needs resulting from the new demographic structures and lifestyles, the ability and luck to be anti-cyclical in crisis conditions. It also has many roles: food production, land maintenance, landscape protection, combating climate change, employment, preservation of real culture, protection of biodiversity. These are roles that, in some ways, are entrusted to him and are all attributable to the sphere of public goods. Well, in view of the role played by the agri-food sector and the public goods produced, national policy is absent or distracted, and I believe the moment is also wrong, because at this stage in Brussels we are in the midst of the state of the "trilogues" between the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament, from which important choices will be made for Community agriculture up to 2020: from the distribution of resources to the means of use. These are negotiating moments when part of the credibility of a country comes from the will of the Member State to think of national policies for its own agriculture. So where is the credibility of Italy if it does not pay attention, with its own instruments, to agriculture? With what force can we move forward on European tables if nothing is done in our own home? For this reason too, in addition to expressing our perplexity and our opposition to the DEF, we have proposed, through our motion for a resolution, that a multi-annual extraordinary plan for the protection of the soil and the reclamation of the territory be inserted as a real and priority infrastructural work able to secure our fragile territory, as well as to activate thousands of yards with obvious economic and occupational repercussions, also through the entrusting of maintenance work to the same farmers. In addition, we also wanted to provide for the establishment of an employment plan for the repopulation of the countryside, as well as of the abandoned mountain and hilly areas, which provides for a total tax exemption for young farmers who settle in state-owned abandoned areas, with the immediate release of the ban on custody, both for rent and for hire, of public and state-owned areas for young people; which provides incentives for the promotion of social agriculture and facilitates access to the essential benefits of disadvantaged persons; which also provides for the halving of bureaucracy for agricultural enterprises, by implementing measures for the rapid digitisation of the public administration, for the coordination of national and regional competences and the unification of all the obligations in the business dossier. These are just a few issues on which we would like to focus our attention and on which we would like to see a change of course in relation to the past, also through the immediate return of the IMU paid in excess by agricultural companies. In this respect, the Government had made a formal commitment, at a quota announced overabundant with respect to the forecasts, to return to the farmers a tax on the good of production. I believe that it would be immediate measures and instruments to entrust, at least in part, a role of restarting the economy of our country. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Filippi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I shall concentrate my speech on the annex infrastructure, the eleventh from its establishment. A document which, since 2003, has been an integral part of the more general economic and financial planning act, as provided for in Article 1 of the Target Law, as provided for in Article 10 of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance, and as most recently confirmed by the law of coordination of the economic policies of the Member States. Nevertheless, the drafting and examination of this measure for a long time translates substantially into a mere and formal bureaucratic fulfillment: a sort, in short, of computer report on the state of progress of the works about the great works that over the years have had different levels of approval, financing and realization, and on which it is not always easy to understand logic and rationality in a programming framework that would instead be ordered and certain. The investment expenditure, and in particular that dedicated to the planning of the interventions aimed at the infrastructural endowment of the Country, should represent the essential program of development that a Country manages to give itself and coherently to pursue. It is clear that, in the given temporal context, the Document at our examination is clearly and inevitably affected by the approach given by the previous government rather than by the one currently in office. The first observation, then, is to ask the new Government, and in particular the competent Minister, to deal carefully for the future, with due care and rigour, with the task that the law provides and assigns to it. Serious planning is not an abstract exercise, a book of dreams in which to understand all the more or less legitimate demands that come from the different territories of the country due to an alleged or real state of deficit or infrastructural backwardness; but it is not even the absence of any programming of priorities, as the objective law has deliberately constituted in these ten years. In the past in fact it has been acquitted, from the successive Governments, to a function of substantial uncritical acceptance of the state of the needs coming from the territories, often with agreements of program State-Regions free from all logic of sustainability and financial coverage, until in this way to raise the Plan of strategic infrastructures, as estimated from the 7th report on the implementation of the objective law, to an amount of approximately 375 billion euros for the 390 planned works. The time has come to take note of the inadequacy of the objective law to correspond to the actual needs of the infrastructure issue in this decade and to which it has not been able to fulfil in terms of the selection of priorities, speed in the procedures of approval and financing and certainty in terms of financial availability. The data contained in the report of the attached infrastructure are eloquent: if you go from the universe of 390 works included in the PIS to the value of the 190 works of the CIPE perimeter, that is those approved at least once by that body, with preliminary draft or final plan and attached financial framework, the estimated cost is reduced to 142,5 billion euros, pairs only to 38 percent of the cost of the entire program, regarding which the resources available amount to only 78,3 billion euros, that allow a financial coverage pairs to 55 percent of the estimated cost. But the works actually carried out and completed in the most recent decade of studies claim to be just 4% and estimate new resources for the coming years in no more than four or five billion actual. In the face of this picture, I believe that the government must then put a more serious hand in planning worthy of this name: it is necessary, all the more, in the economic conditions that the country goes through. This means clarifying, once and for all, the actual financial resources for the coming years and those actually available already now, because it is only because of these that it will be possible to scale priorities and types of implementation. In conclusion, and softly, some indications that may be useful for the future that we face. This government has a year to prepare a serious attached infrastructure dimensioned on the resources actually available: don't waste it! Circulated the perimeter of the resources, it defines according to the communitarian priorities - the infrastructures included within the framework of the core network - those necessary priorities that correspond for our country to the short and medium term objectives for its urgent infrastructural modernization. Probably it will be discovered that the season of the great works will have to be momentarily set aside waiting for better economic periods and that instead it is urgent to complete, with infrastructures of connection and upgrade, those that are our natural doors of access for the goods and passengers, that is to say the ports and the airports and their connection with the main railway arteries and highways. It will be discovered, perhaps, that probably the works and the participations necessary to throw again of the logistics in our Country, determining factor for our economy, not only they do not need important resources for pharaonic interventions, but that often with few hundreds of million they will be able to solve dramatic problems of congestedness, that in these years they have wasted time (and therefore money), but also important opportunities of development. Probably, if we have the courage to pursue this logic, we will discover that these will be works that will pay for themselves, thanks to the improvement of the conditions and economic repercussions that will produce on those territories and that the only not making them determines a cost now unbearable for the collectives. In short, I wish this strange government and this strange majority that supports it, which is not given the opportunity to fail if we want policy to repair the damage that has been done in recent years and regain the necessary credibility, a sort of Copernican infrastructure revolution. Much can be done with little, as long as it really is done and as long as it is done soon. We have just one year, not for the launch of a few unlikely great works, but for a plan of many small but realistic works, able to put in a few years the wings to the country, to give work to thousands of technicians and workers and to improve in fact the economic conditions of our industrial realities and the living conditions of our urban centers. It is only by giving confidence to the potential present on the territories that we can overcome the difficult challenge facing us: that of a crisis that seems to give us no breath. We must do this above all for the passion and tenacity that every day millions of Italians put into the business of their companies, in order to ensure that Italy is not a wretched geographical condition, but the most beautiful and important trademark that we all have available. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u69	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u70	Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, the National Health System, one of the social reforms that Europe and the whole world have always considered as a model of excellence, is falling apart. The primates conquered in the defeat of infant mortality, in the hope of life of women and men, in the widespread spread throughout the territory of medical garrisons, are increasingly deteriorating: not because of the economic crisis and the lack of resources, but because it is believed to fight the crisis itself by cutting on the health protection system. A recent research by CENSIS speaks of more than nine million people who have had to give up health care for economic reasons over the past year: they are women, elderly people, families with children. In its 2012 report on public finance, the Court of Auditors states: Also in 2011 the management of health expenditure has better results than expected. (...) For the first time for years in decline, expenditure reduces its GDP impact, from 7.3 per cent in 2010 to 7.1 per cent in 2010. If there are more signs of change in the return plan in the regions towards greater responsibility for management, however, there is no shortage of worrying signs of quality of assistance. In other words, the percentage of GDP that was already among the lowest in Europe falls, but it seems more likely that this is due to the linear cuts in resources rather than the elimination of waste. In addition, scams and mischief are rampant: for these items, the estimated erarial damage amounts to 333 million euros. The result is frightening and the public structures are the ones most affected by the mischief. Considering carefully the balance sheet of some regions in the North, usually considered virtuous, it is noted that in reality they are not. Often the funds available to the Region are increased with the incoming health tourism, through which the Region can afford to give its citizens perhaps something more thanks to funds removed to other Regions. It cannot be ignored that the process of decentralization in favour of local self-government has highlighted and accentuated the gap between the Italian regions in relation to the achievement of the objectives of efficiency and quality of the benefits paid against the incurred expenditure. As if that were not enough, recent crisis measures have made the use of private individuals convenient in basic diagnostics and specialist science, while cutting funds (less than 93 percent) has made social services virtual and led to an increase in improper demand for health. It seems to be suggested that with the privatization of the system everything would work wonderfully, hiding under the carpet the most recent scams of the private to the detriment of the public: from San Raffaele of Milan to San Filippo Neri of Rome, to the Maugeri Foundation; from all the professionals found in total illegality to the various scams on drugs and shelters. And while in the countries where the social state is defended and strengthened the consequences of global financial speculation are less suffering, in Italy we are going in the opposite direction. New approaches are needed in this situation. Health care is not a commodity in the market, but a common good. The aim is not profit, but a shared use of the good that preserves its availability over time. In fact, health care, as a public good that would be better defined by institutional management, is actually managed by directors-general within a business model that allows them to exercise their private use. And almost never are created the conditions in which the members of the community can best carry out the common management of the good. For us, a common good is free of values. Its outcome can be good or bad, sustainable or not. And to ensure durable and stable systems, we need clarity, good decision-making and collaborative management strategies. Medicine must return to being a means of caring for people and not patient objects. Society can only benefit from the deep awareness of what the disease really is, not only for the body, but also for the spirit. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u71	Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u72	Mr President, representatives of the Government, the transitional situation in which this debate takes place is quite clear. The DEF presented by the previous government represents a kind of final balance sheet of interventions carried out in 2011 and 2012 for the stabilisation of public accounts and above all to bring the deficit-GDP ratio below 3%. In this respect, the importance for the country of achieving the objective that will allow in the very short term to get out of the infringement procedure for excessive deficits should be recognised. This is certainly a significant result, which must be preserved, also in view of the serious social costs in order to achieve it because of the consequences it has had on the recession of the economy, the rise in unemployment, the fall in incomes, the widespread suffering of families and businesses and social security issues. In this sense, the resolution will have to certify the validity of the recovery procedure, especially in order to open a new phase in the economic policy of our country, to be negotiated actively and determinedly with the European Union, also for the development policies to be carried out throughout Europe. Overcoming the excessive deficit procedure will, with greater flexibility, enable action to be taken for growth and work. From this point of view, we do not receive any decisive indications from the DEF, partly because the National Reform Plan is essentially absent. It is therefore necessary to fill this gap quickly by the new Government, as already indicated by the President of the Council's speech on the occasion of the vote of confidence and by the Minister for Economic Affairs in the hearing at the Special Commission. This is even more necessary in view of the forecasts that other institutions are making these days, which are more negative than GDP growth, especially due to the increase in unemployment in 2013 and 2014. ISTAT, for example, today notes that unemployment will exceed 12% in 2014. The delicate balance to be preserved between measures for growth and control of public finances leads to clarity in relation to priorities, also given the limited resources available. Priority should be given to actions that can respond to the serious social emergency resulting from unemployment, immediately refinancing social shock absorbers, a youth employment plan in conjunction with the European programme, the extension of temporary contracts due to expire in the public administration, and a solution to the problem of exodus. Other measures must be aimed at reducing the tax burden on business investment and new recruitment to increase production, services and disposable income. This result must also be supported by an early approval of the decree for the payment of public administration's debts to companies, simplifying their criteria and increasing their incisiveness, while at the same time calling for greater fluidity of the bank's credit, all the more so after the reduction of the rates by the ECB. The internal stability pact must also be relaxed in order to encourage the investments of the municipalities in the safety of buildings and the restoration of the territory, which can contribute to the revival of a flying sector such as construction. As well as indispensable is a reordering of the legislation on the taxation of the house and of the real estate. From the fiscal point of view, starting from the remodulation of the IMU, priority should be given to interventions which, by reducing the tax burden on the lower individual and family incomes, can lead to a greater relative increase in domestic demand and thus have a greater impact on growth. In this context, it seems crucial not to continue the increase in VAT since 1 July which, if implemented, would have further negative effects on consumption, for a long time in severe suffering. Finally, two important reforms should be mentioned in the NRP: the first must consist of more incisive and organic measures to combat tax evasion, which can recover significant resources to reduce tax burden on taxpayers, giving rapid implementation to the already foreseen tax delegation, as well as more effective prosecution of the widespread areas of corruption; the second reform must involve the control of public expenditure (or spending review), preserving the quality of public services (school, education, innovation, health). This objective must be achieved by fighting waste and inefficiencies and by decisively implementing the standard costs and institutional reforms that reduce and combine administrative levels more effectively. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u73	Senator Catalfo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u74	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, according to the ISTAT findings in March 2013, the unemployment rate in Italy stands at 11%, an increase of 1.1 percentage points compared to the previous 12 months. Law No 92 of 28 June 2012, so-called Fornero law, seems insufficient to solve the serious problems of the Italian labour world. It has, in fact, resulted in a slight revision of the rules governing so-called atypical contractual forms which have been the main vehicle of the spread of precariousness and the disruption of the guarantees of workers in the matter of dismissal. It is in everyone's eyes that policies aimed at increasing labour flexibility have led to lower wage levels and lower job security. Italy has become a nation of cassintegrates, exodus, unemployed, precarious and migrants. European Commissioner Andor, at his meeting in Dublin on 29 April last, reported a worrying figure: the unemployment rate of young people between 15 and 24 years old in Italy is 38.4%. It is therefore clear that the programmes implemented so far to promote the integration of young people into the Italian labour market have proved ineffective and inefficient, in no way achieving the objective set. In fact, ISTAT's 2012 annual report shows that an increasing number of young people choose to leave Italy, thus impoverishing our country even more of the resources needed for economic recovery. In this sense, it is noted that the implementation of programmes such as the job of my life, the result of the protocol of understanding between Italy and Germany, more than an opportunity for growth and international experience ends up becoming an obligatory road for many young Italians who cannot find employment opportunities in our country. Italy is, in fact, the second European nation by number of immigrants after Romania. In order to deal with the work emergency, action must be taken on several fronts at the same time and in a coordinated way. Attention should be paid to Italian companies in order to facilitate recruitment, especially by increasing programmes to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the real backbone of the Italian production system. Intensive and less dispersive action is essential for the dissemination of the apprenticeship contract. Programmes should be put in place to support new entrepreneurial initiatives, starting from the analysis of the specific needs and potential of the territory. The primary role of public employment centres should be re-established as the only reference points for citizens and businesses and for all labour policies. The implementation of a single programme for the implementation and monitoring of active policies is essential. Projects such as SILLA, VESPRO, AMVA are not connected and sometimes overlap, proposing the same models with obvious inefficient use of resources. In implementing these measures, more attention is paid to the dissemination of information rather than to the employment of the unemployed or the unemployed. The unemployed need not only information, but also work integration, through a real and coordinated cross-fertilisation of demand and supply. The fragmentation of employment services and active policy programmes (most recently assigned to patrons), the lack of a single observatory on emerging jobs and professions, the lack of mandatory links between public employment centres, the national register of certified skills of each citizen and employment agencies, the absence of a real link between the education and training system on the one hand and the needs of the business world on the other hand, are all factors that effectively prevent the activation of a virtuous system. The phenomenon of precariousness is becoming radical and, with the sharpening of the economic crisis, it is becoming a real social emergency. In this context, the 5 Star Movement aims to establish the income of citizenship not as a mere social subsidy to the unemployed and the unemployed, not as a one-off panacea for the ills of the Italian labour market, but as part of an integrated welfare system, an element of a wider programme, which places the citizen at the centre of active labour policies: active policies that will have to accompany citizens throughout their lives, following their steps from the education and training system, up to the integration into the world of work through the indispensable action of public employment services. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u75	It is an announcement that, at the moment, motion for a resolution No 1, first signed by Senator Molinari and others, and motion for a resolution No 2, signed by Senator De Petris and others, have been received by the Presidency. These proposals will be printed and distributed. As stated, I shall refer the continuation of the debate on the document to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u78	BATTIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, I am learning today that City Councillor Emilio Paradiso of the Northern League of Prato has written on his Facebook page the following post: The Flower-White had to bend to the fennel, and the cuttlefish black left it there? Of course, the cuttlefish black is an explicit reference to the Minister for Integration Kyenge. Paradise itself defines this comment as a gypsy, not to mention without apology. I find these statements very offensive. The question arises as to whether, in addition to setting up a Human Rights Commission, it is not necessary to take an admission test for those who wish to hold an office in the institutions in order to put an end to the words "homophobia" and "racism." [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u81	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, the Senate of the Republic today commemorates the commendable figure of Agnese Borsellino, who died yesterday, 5 May, at the age of 71, after a long illness. [[The President and the Assembly stand]] Remembering the widow of the magistrate Borsellino is a duty, as well as civil, moral. You owe it to her and the man who loved our country so much that he lost his life. Woman of human depth, thirsting for justice and truth, able to demonstrate personally that pain can only find meaning when the eyes can see things clearly. Along with his children, Agnese Borsellino has always shown some confidentiality. She just attended a few public ceremonies in memory of her husband. However, he has always testified to his commitment to the fight against the Mafia and to the search for truth about the massacre in Via D'Amelio. Agnese Borsellino showed great respect for the State, that same State that her husband had defended and safeguarded and, precisely on the occasion of the demonstrations for the twentieth anniversary of the massacres, not being able to participate because of his illness, did not hesitate to send a message to the young people. These are his words: After a few moments of discouragement I continued and will continue to believe and respect the institutions of this country as my husband up to the last taught us. Even during her long illness, the widow Borsellino committed herself to witnessing and civil commitment, showing tenacity and courage in the fight against the mafia. And just to defeat the Mafia did not hesitate to unravel her husband's concerns, trying to provide useful elements to the judges who are still rebuilding the truth about those tragic events today. We institutions have a moral duty to defend the state, to protect it from forms of bloody and destructive crime. We have an obligation to restore dignity to those many dead who have walked the path of justice. We owe them and their families. In recalling the social contribution that the widow Borsellino left us with her dignified and respectful existence, on behalf of the Parliamentary 5 Star Movement Group, I express my condolences to the family for the disappearance of a great woman, wife and mother such as Agnese Piraino Leto in Borsellino. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u82	The Presidency supports his words of condolence.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u85	BONFRISCO (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the opportunity given to us at the end of today's proceedings to associate myself with the remembrance and appreciation of the great teaching given to us by Mrs Borsellino, the widow of a great servant of the State and man of justice, of that just justice which she invoked, as paradoxically often mentioned, and above all committed constantly, continuously and contemptuously of every danger. He knew well that he was on the list of men to be eliminated after John Falcone, his wife and all his escort. I very much appreciate that, despite the late hour, we wanted to remember this evening the splendid figure of a woman who, with great sobriety and without ever losing even a minute's love and respect for the institutions, honored in an extraordinary way the memory of her husband. And it is precisely to the memory of that husband and also to his that we all bow down to the People of Freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u88	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I too share the condolences expressed by my colleagues. The battle that did Agnese Borsellino I believe is the battle of all those who care about legality in its greatest dimension, the fight against the mafia, but also in the small daily issues that affect all people. A commitment must be made on the part of all of us to the greatest concerns that have upset the life of this woman in the last twenty years: I am referring to the interweaving of politics and business, between the State and the underworld. In front of his coffin we must make the commitment that the truth will finally emerge [[Applause from Senator Buccarella]] , possibly also to exonerate those who today can only be seen as innocent people (we want to maintain the presumption of innocence for all), but precisely to eliminate those doubts that for twenty years accompany the relationship between state and organized crime, in particular between state and mafia. In front of this lesson, which follows that of Paolo Borsellino, Giovanni Falcone and many others, we must assume a specific duty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u91	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, I rise to add the memory of the Democratic Party to what colleagues from other parliamentary groups have already wished to recall this evening. I do not want to add words so as not to make this memory tantalizing. I believe that the testimony of Mrs. Borsellino's life experience is, in itself, the reference to which we all, at this moment, think. I believe that this evening, in the Senate, we could recall the words that, as we know of Mrs. Borsellino's death, President Grasso has already spoken, asking to commit the Senate and Parliament everything to ascertaining the truth to which Agnese Borsellino dedicated his life and his testimony: it is an interest not only in Parliament, but in all of Italy for which Parliament must guarantee itself. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u92	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-18.ana.u93	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday 7 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.11 a.m.
