ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u1	The sitting is open (12:18 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pizzetti, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 19 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 12.25 p.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u4	The next item is the joint debate on draft law 1121-B and 1120-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, final votes on both measures will be taken by nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure. I would also point out that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur on draft law No 1120-B, Senator Santini, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Santini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the effects of the measures contained in the stability bill, as approved by the House of Deputies, mean in 2014, in terms of net government debt, a net correction corresponding to a deterioration of about 2.5 billion, or about 0.2 percent of GDP. For the following two years, the intervention measures mentioned above lead to an improvement in public administration's net debt of around 3.5 billion in 2015 (0.3% of GDP) and about 7.3 billion in 2016 (0.4% of GDP). The effect in terms of needs is similar to that on net debt. The draft Stability Act is estimated to have effects on the state budget, i.e. in terms of net balance to be financed, amounting to a deterioration of approximately 1.7 billion in 2014, followed by an improvement of approximately 13 billion in 2015 and 7.1 billion in 2016. Compared to the bill approved by the Senate at first reading, the examination by the Chamber resulted in an improvement in net debt of around 174 million euros in 2014 followed by a worsening in the following two years of about 6 million euros in 2015 and about 20 million euros in 2016. The effects of the Chamber's examination on requirements are identical to those on net debt. In terms of net debt, the net change in revenues amounted to approximately 2.1 billion euros in 2014, 0.6 billion euros in 2015 and 1.9 billion euros in 2016. The net change in expenditure (difference between higher and lower expenses) results in a total increase in expenditure of around 3.6 billion in 2014 attributable to current account expenditure of about 1.1 billion and about 2.5 billion to capital expenditure. In the next two years the maneuver implies a net reduction of the expenses pairs to approximately 3,4 billion in 2015 and 5.9 billion in 2016. The provisions of the stability bill contribute to a gross maneuver that determines an amount of resources found for the cover, in terms of net debt, of approximately 12.2 billion in 2014, 14.5 billion in 2015 and 19.8 billion in 2016. The interventions amounted to approximately €13.7 billion in 2014, €10.5 billion in 2015 and €12 billion in 2016. The analysis of the main sectors of intervention shows the increase in the Irpef deduction on income from employees (about 1.5 billion in 2014, 1.7 billion in 2015 and 1.7 billion in 2016), the contributory reductions for insurance against accidents at work (one billion euro in 2014, 1.1 billion in 2015 and 1.2 billion in 2016) and the reduction of the IRAP on labour share for new employees indefinitely (about 315 million in 2014-2016). Other quantitatively relevant actions concern the discipline of tax deductibility of credit corrections in the banking and insurance sector, the deductibility of 30% of the IMU for 2014 to corporate income taxes for instrumental properties, the regulation on real estate, the IRPEF deductions for building renovation costs, energy redevelopment and the purchase of furniture and household appliances. Among the capital interventions, there is a change in the discipline of the Internal Stability Pact with the granting of greater financial spaces for investment expenditure (one billion in 2014) and for the payment of past debts in the capital account of local authorities (500 million in the same year). With regard to cover, it should be noted, on the revenue side, the increase in stamp tax for communications relating to financial instruments (about 2.4 billion in the three-year period), interventions to reorder and rationalise income tax deductions (1.8 billion in the three-year period), the reduction of tax concessions and deductions (10 billion in the two-year period 2015-2016), the application of registration tax on the sale of leasing contracts for instrumental real estate (about 621 million in each of the three-year period). On the expenditure side, the main measures concern the strengthening of the Internal Stability Pact for the Regions, which guarantees savings of EUR 3 billion over the three years, public employment measures and social security measures. Further expenditure reductions are expected from the spending review. In the more part of the definition of the relative participations, the law of stability disposes the provision of the financial envelopes of the remodulating expenses of each Ministry for 256 million euros in 2015 and 622 million euros in 2016.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u6	The rapporteur on draft law No 1120-B, Senator D'Alì, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator D'Alì.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the changes made by the House of Deputies to the text that the Senate has hesitated for which we are here to report to the Assembly are punctually reflected in the excellent summary produced by the Senate Studies Service. I therefore ask the Offices to attach pages 23 to 126 to my report because they analytically describe all the innovations (not a few: over 300) made by the Chamber of Deputies to the Senate text. I shall therefore confine myself to making a few comments on the changes and the general nature of the course of the debate. In the last few years we have recorded a series of interventions which have been divided into several decree-laws and which have also concerned similar, if not even coincident, matters. This certainly made the work of both the Senate and the House more complex. The rapporteurs and the majority certainly propose the final approval of the measure in the text approved by the House of Deputies, albeit with some - I believe - legitimate observation. The first comments relate to the substantial retention of certain areas of the stability bill. The estate mainly concerns the approach taken by the Senate on the taxation of buildings and which the House has integrated (we knew that it would be the House that would intervene in this area) with some positive insertions for us in the agriculture sector and that, however, these days - for this reason I wanted to make them the subject of my reflection - have been somewhat questioned by the political debate. I would like to remind ourselves, the Government and those who participate in this debate that taxation on the house, as defined, is the result of a long mediation, in the positive sense of the term, of achieving a balance that I believe the Government would do well not to change into the decree-laws that will be issued at the end of the year. (Brusio). I hope that the Government will listen to me, as far as possible, in this House, Mr President. An overall balance that has its roots also in a need: not to press taxes and therefore not to broaden the sphere of autonomy in the taxation of taxes reserved to local authorities. The social distress that has manifested itself in several forms in recent days (some less civil, other times in the form of civil protest and invitation to dialogue) has its roots precisely in the excessive taxation applied by some local authorities to ensure the payment of the services that they are called to provide. It would therefore be a mistake to extend the sphere of power of local authorities to increase these tributes further: this could generate other legitimate protests. Instead, it would be appropriate - as we have repeatedly pointed out with Senator Santini, during the discussion of the decree-law on local authorities - to immediately put hand, from the resumption of the work onward, to an overall review, meditated, reasoned and balanced of the taxation on real estate that also concerns the mechanisms of regulation between the Government and the local authorities. These mechanisms are still anchored in the provisional nature of the implementing decrees of the IMU 2012, which, in my opinion, reason - wrong - in terms of cash rather than in terms of competence and, therefore, introduce grey areas, not to mention chaos, even in the accounts of local authorities that do not ensure in the right way to adapt to the cash the competences and the rights to the expenses of large bands of evasion, which remain so outside the same budgets of the municipalities. On this matter - I repeat - it would be desirable for the Government, rather than rushing in with end-of-year decrees, to leave to Parliament, in the first months of next year, the possibility of defining in a complete manner the matter of taxation on buildings. In this regard, I would like to make a comment, or a notation, of which I apologise to my colleagues. We are now in a situation where perhaps there is a gap between levels of government and citizens; Parliament is called upon to defend the interests of citizens from excessive pressure determined by intermediate levels of government, perhaps resuming functions that in history have assumed central powers to defend citizens against the excessively free intermediate powers to operate on the territory. Of course, I will not make historical references, but that is our role: to defend citizens from excessive intrusiveness of local authorities, both in tax terms and in bureaucracy. In this regard I appeal to those who, coming from the ranks of local administrators or having entered those ranks after parliamentary experience, still fail to differentiate between the two essential functions and continue to pursue demands of institutional corporatism with respect to the general interests of citizenship. Other important changes have been introduced in the positive direction: on the increase of resources allocated to the tax wedge and on the remodulation of the measure of non-indexation of certain layers of pensions (which, however, would be the case to abolish completely, identifying the necessary resources in the coming months). In addition, some specific rules have been introduced, such as the one on stadiums and the one on maritime state property canons, which have found room for discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, also because here, in the Senate, we had deliberately seen in the second reading the possibility of their definition. Of course, rules have been included, mainly in terms of public administration and new recruitment or even general mobility, which the Senate had already removed from the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies or which in other measures had not approved or even rejected. All this cannot leave us serene and of course postpone the debate; therefore, with a sense of responsibility, we assume the burden of the definitive adoption of this measure, according to a criterion of respect for the bicameralism that, however, does not seem to be adopted by the Chamber of Deputies towards the Senate. A final reflection is in the following terms: the institutional reform of the modification of bicameralism or even the elimination of it - as some would like to do - has not yet been launched or even discussed. Therefore, the respect between the two rooms we do not say to be appropriate, but still to be contained in the main norms of our country. I understand that this notation is of little interest to many colleagues and to the members of the Government, but I would like to call you back. The Senate responsibly today, in the third reading, defines the law of stability by concluding its examination, when it would have had reason to intervene especially with regard to norms which the Senate itself had rejected at first reading, which it had expounded from the text of the Government and which were reintroduced by the House or which the Senate had rejected at times of discussion on other measures. We adopt our institutional responsibility and we also assume any political responsibilities, with the hope that others can do the same, which is not the case at the moment. [[Applause from Senator Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u8	The rapporteur on draft law No 1121-B, Senator Azzollini, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Azzollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u9	Mr President, taking up the considerations formulated during the examination at first reading, I recall once again that the draft law approving the State budget for the three-year period 2014-2016 is drawn up in line with the provisions of the accounting law and is obviously prepared according to the criterion of the legislation in force, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 1, of the same law and ministerial indications on the preparation of the budget forecasts for 2014 and the three-year period 2014-2016 and budget for the three-year period 2014-2016. Following the approval of the Second Note of Variations, designed to transpose the effects of the amendments to the 2014 Stability Act, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, a recomposition of entry and expenditure items has been determined without altering the overall amount of the maneuver. Overall, there was a slight improvement in the net balance to be financed (around 100 million) and a substantial variance in terms of net debt of general government. These changes lead, in terms of the net balance to be financed, to an increase in revenue of around 630 million in 2014, compared with an increase in expenditure of around 530 million. A similar substantial effect is seen in terms of net debt. As a result of further changes made by the Chamber of Deputies, the summary framework of the draft budget law, net of the accounting regulations and VAT refunds, therefore shows, for the competence, a net balance to be financed of 44 billion euros in 2014 and gradually improving in the following two years, respectively to 13 billion in 2015, to become surplus to be used for 2.5 billion in 2016, reflecting both an increase in final revenue and a reduction in final expenditure and, in particular, capital expenditure. Public savings were positive in 2014 for 8 billion, in 2015 for 22 billion and in 2016 for 32 billion. With regard to the variations that directly affected the draft budget law introduced during the examination carried out by the Chamber, the interventions on some order profiles of the measure and some variations of a predominantly compensatory character in the table part should be reported. For the more specifically normative aspects, a first modification has assigned to the program "Analysis, monitoring and control of the public finances and fiscal policies" of the Ministry of the economy and the finances for 2014 the sums coming from the closure of two commissioner agencies, that is to say that of the Fund management contractual institutes harbour workers and that for the particular requirements, also of public order, of the city of Palermo, both in compulsory administrative liquidation. A second amendment deleted, in Article 6 (6) of the draft law, the reference to the Ministry for International Cooperation and Integration, no longer provided for in the current composition of the Government. Finally, a further variation authorizes the Minister of Economy and Finance to make compensatory changes between two programmes of expenditure of the estimates of the Ministry of the Interior in relation to the actual occurrences of the programme of expenditure relating to the management of the register of municipal and provincial secretaries, following the intervention of the autonomous Agency for the management of this register, with the sub-introduction of the Ministry of the Interior in the functions of the Agency. I would like to stress: finally, the abolition of an institution in Italy. On the other hand, five changes were made to the tables, as a result of amendments tabled by the Government. The first follows the amendments made during the parliamentary examination to Decree-Law No 104 of 12 September 2013, the effects of which had been entered in the budget with reference to the initial text of the Decree-Law itself. A second amendment makes some changes, both on the forecast status of the entry and on some programmes of the forecast status of some Dicasteries, which result in the need to take into account the amendments that took place during the conversion process into law of Decree-Law No 102 of 31 August 2013, laying down provisions on IMU and real estate taxation. A further amendment transposes into the draft budget the effects of Decree-Law No 101 of 31 August 2013, acting on the expenditure allocations of certain programmes of the Ministries of Labour and Social Policy, the Economy and Finance, Foreign Affairs and the estimates of revenue. Finally, with a further amendment, three different compensatory variations were made, the first of which aimed at a better allocation of financial resources in relation to the activity of analysis and monitoring of expenditure, the second time to reallocate the resources for the payment of food vouchers of certain categories of employees, and a third time concerning the implementation of the programme agreement between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Region of Sardinia. The budget of the programme for constitutional bodies was then reduced, for some EUR 50 million, in the estimates of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, in relation to the actual request made by the House of Deputies. Finally, I would remind you that in the near future Parliament will be called upon to implement Article 15 of Law No 243 of 2012, where the content of the budget law is to be regulated. In this forecast that comes into force from 1 January 2016, in accordance with the provisions of Article 21, paragraph 4, of the same law, it is necessary, basically, to unify in a single document (the budget law, precisely) the current contents of the law of stability and of the budget law, as provided for by the current law of national accounts, respectively, in Article 11 and Articles 21 to 30 of Law No 196 of 2009. I would like to draw the Government's attention to this last brief but significant part of my report, calling for an explicit settlement before the House. At the end of the budgetary session, it should be pointed out that the programme objectives agreed with the European Union, on the basis of the obligations assumed, and contained in the programme documents approved by Parliament, are fully achieved. The reference is to both nominal and structural objectives, as provided for in Community legislation. It should also be noted that Article 81 of the revised Constitution is fully respected in all its requirements and in particular in relation to the constraints of the structural balance. I remind everyone that Article 81, first paragraph, has been published since 1 January 2014.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u12	Mr Legnini, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I am speaking only to confirm what President Azzollini has now said about the full respect by the maneuver, both in nominal and structural terms, of the planned objectives agreed at European level, as well as the provisions of Article 81 of the Constitution, as recently announced.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u13	I declare the joint general discussion open. Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u14	Mr President, in preparing this speech, I wondered what the point was. Why do that? Actually, there's a reason. This reason has a name: Stefano. Stefano is a Roman boy known at the garrison of the 5 Star Movement organized before the Ministry of Economics and Finance to remind Minister Saccomanni of a commitment that had taken place in the summer with the decree of doing. But let's go back to Stefano. This boy lives in Holland, where he moved for work reasons. His eyes spoke with his heart. His words imbued with anger and disappointment, however, are worthy to be remembered: Italy could live on tourism, art, architecture, history, even food and wine delicacies. But she's lost. She went adrift because of the usual known. Who doesn't live abroad doesn't know how Italians love their land, how Italians smell their land. You're gonna make it, you're not doing anything wrong, and being here is proof of it! I decided to quote these words because in my opinion they summarize a clear concept: it is your fault if Stefano is forced to live abroad. It is the fault of those who, like you, continue to perpetrate behaviors aimed at saving armchairs, rather than safeguarding people like Stephen. It is not possible for the newcomers to be able to save money for the citizens, but they must beg the Minister an IBAN to pay the surplus of their allowances! That's not possible! It is not possible that Mr Saccomanni should give us bank details just because he is put under pressure by parliamentarians and activists who fear neither cold nor sleep! We are very disappointed, because what we are voting for with yet another amendment is an increasingly ill law of stability. This financial does not stabilize our country, it does not create the conditions to give hope to our citizens. In fact, hope is completely demolished. Mr President, why do you not explicitly tell our citizens that theirs and our hope is dead? Yes, she died, just as all Stefano's expectations of returning to Italy have died if this political class does not change course. And don't say that Italy will be saved with the new PD helmsman, because with him things will certainly not get better. In fact, I take advantage of this space to invite the mayor of the cradle of the Renaissance to want to transform the words of his meetings into deeds. It's time! You start working, Mr. Renzi, and not just for the citizens who voted for you! After all, they won't be Scrooge Scrooge Scrooge. Maybe they'll find it hard to get to the end of the month, too. After all in that 68 percent there will also be someone who has lost his job, or should I imagine that the unions behind your party are capable of protecting all Italian workers? Perhaps those poor citizens are unaware of what you have done and do again and perhaps always they do not know that it has helped to create this situation even those who have been voted by them. But let's move on! This inscription I hope will reach the ears of those who, rather than being the first citizen of a city like Florence, was the first of the class to care for their own interests. Now, Mr President, it is up to you to do something. It is up to you to say what it is. Unlike the first passage here in the Senate, the House's Budget Committee produced a version of the new law of stability without obliging the Government to submit a major amendment. This law of stability in the House has been overturned again. It is true then when it is said that that original text did not please anyone; it did not please us not only of the opposition, but above all of you of the majority. Even to the Government itself, since it makes sub-amendments to the amendments. Now I ask myself: why does this Government not accept the councils of the majority? Aren't you all friends? Do you talk to each other or not? Ladies and gentlemen, we can no longer go on like this, with this way of doing politics: make a few amendments, make many amendments, make discussions, be silent, do obstructionism, in short do whatever you want, let us put our trust in it! Well, that's your threat. This is your blackmail! But then I ask myself: why do we not avoid debating, if this time too there will be the call to which we, schoolchildren of this school - which should be of democracy - will submit ourselves? Is this the modus operandi you've decided to keep every time? You know what a person wrote about stability? "Stability, good word. I wonder what this government wants to stabilize. I wonder what role the word "responsibility" should play and what relationship it should have with people. This government and even more the entire ruling class of the country is losing its compass. If they fail to realize that their very existence is linked to the well-being of citizens, they will never understand that a community like the Italian community cannot do without solidarity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bertorotta, please conclude. BERTOROTTA (M5S). "What is not civil is to see that a part of citizens lives on the pedestal of guaranteed rights and from the top of lots of salaries, while another suicidal party, has no salary and has no rights. She's desperate. Again, stability is yet another hoax to the detriment of Italian citizens. We have stopped thinking about our neighbors, because others are more and more others than we are. We have stopped giving hope, because the hope we have is only to save at least our interests. Let us make sure that from now on we begin to fight for them, to make sure that they do not live in theory and then die in practice, but that they can live their lives dignifiedly! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Some Senators of the M5S Group display signs with the inscription "Return yourself." If we can do it, you can do it too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You know very well that no signs are allowed! Remove the signs, please! I beg the Parent Company to help us bring the order back. Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u15	Mr President, it was just an invitation to colleagues to follow the good example. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u16	You know that neither signs nor photos I've seen are allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u17	Mr Lezzi (M5S). I understand very well. Well, we started off with the so-called web tax, but then Renzi intervened and we have the commercial tax. It will be interesting to listen well as this new rule states that when an Italian entrepreneur buys advertising spaces or sponsored links he will have to ask for the issue of an invoice with an Italian VAT number for those contents that will then be actually clicked from our country. We are closing the web in an anachronistic way and also, in my opinion, impossible to achieve. Well, apart from the fact that this is definitely unconstitutional and we will also have to deal with Europe, unless the European Commission is able to turn a blind eye to the lobbies that are linked to the Democratic Party of Letta and Renzi, when for everything else it does not, the question that has jumped to our attention is as follows: who can have advantages from this new commercial tax? Well, colleagues in the Democratic Party, how would you respond? Definitely in this way: the oldest advertising dealership in Italy, the one that has a nice Italian VAT number already from before. What is it? It's Manzoni, isn't it? It's the one that's always tied to Carlo De Benedetti, Democratic Party number one card. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, at this point, I return to the futility of this law of stability, good only to cure the usual interests of the old Democratic Party, which is far from renewing itself and looking at the country in countertrend, as it is saying in the media, but it is always oriented or probably pulled by the ears by the lobby, starting with that of publishing, precisely. Since we are about to undergo a new European infringement procedure, in the name of and on behalf of the 25% of the Italian people who sent us here, we urge you not to sign any new agreements with Europe. I am talking about the partnership agreements or the so-called bilateral agreements between the Member State and the European Commission that will surely grip us further, unless you first are so good as to stimulate the debate on the media and in Parliament, not before you have fully informed the Italian people; therefore, a referendum will have to be prepared before you go to sign any agreement that you went to speak on 19 and 20 December. You do not know the effects of these agreements, but we do know those of the agreements that we have already signed, so - I repeat - we are intimidating you not to sign any other new agreements. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u19	Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, over the past few weeks I have already been able to say that I consider this law of stability the law of lost opportunities, because, in spite of its name, this law is a simple adjustment of accounts rather than the appointment around which to conclude a renewed civic pact between State and citizens. I repeat my position and strengthen it in the light of the changes made to the House of Deputies, which are more intended to remedy problems than to outline new development paths. This measure provokes for Italy and for Italians a situation of greater confusion and does not solve in any way the structural problems that we have been carrying for years. At the basis of the formation of this government the PdL had set clear and simple stakes, which provided at the first points of the program the abolition of taxes on the first house and the reduction of the tax burden on families and enterprises. Some will show that there has been a split in the PdL, but the commitments made with the voters for us at Forza Italia have not changed; others have changed the party and perhaps the ideas, but we have not. Instead of abolishing the IMU, with the law of stability this Government creates a new tax on the house called IUC (Single municipal tax), which incorporates three components: the asset, represented by the IMU due by the owner of the property, that on the indivisible services called TASI, at the expense of both the owner and the user, and that of the waste charged to the user. Worse I think it couldn't be done. Moreover, according to the CGIA di Mestre, the opportunity to raise the TASI rate to 3.5 per thousand on the first house represents an increase compared to before, because the increase in deductions up to 1.3 billion euros will allow a discount on all the first homes equal to 66 euros per citizen, a much lower figure than the 200 euros of the IMU that we should have saved citizens. In fact, it doesn't work, and the municipalities are on the brink of war for too many resource cuts, and I have to say that to them, to the mayors, I feel very close as a former mayor. The municipalities ask to intervene with specific decrees to compensate for the negative effects of this maneuver; the mayors are left too long alone: they represent the daily interface with citizens who claim quality services, but by the Government, by this Government, they do not feel represented. However, it is not only the municipalities that reject the maneuver. Confindustria and the major associations of category speak of a country in serious backwardness, which has suffered the damage of a war and the law of stability is yet another missed opportunity. The trade unions have come to the streets against a law of stability that is not good because, as Camusso says, it does not determine the shock to the economy that would be necessary to restart, which is also in continuity with the previous years. "We need to reduce taxes on citizens, or we will not intercept the recovery," says Bonanni. "Cutting taxes and returning money to citizens, or we won't make it," continues Angeletti of the UIL. The government has succeeded in agreeing, all against this law of stability! How can we ask for a vote in favour of the above considerations? The path you have chosen is the wrong one: you cannot combine stability and rigour with growth and development. You chose austerity, the increase in taxes - which some countries demand, Germany first - instead of giving Italians hope. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Floris. FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). The disappointment - and I am beginning to conclude - for the lack of courage in today's choices is equal to the expectation of yesterday's government. Finally, with regard to Sardinia, Mr President, it was said that the payment of taxes in flooded areas would be suspended, but to date such a measure has not yet been implemented. So there is not a single reason to vote in favour of this law and I certainly cannot be asked for that. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]] Mr President, I would ask you to be able to deliver the full text of my speech, so that it can be published in the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u20	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u21	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u22	Mr President, Vitaliano Brancati wrote at the beginning of the last century that tyranny is not killed; slavery is killed. With the unique party of unregulated lobbying, sitting in the corridors outside the doors of the Commissions and lobbying and plotting, calling and plotting, pagan and plotting, you thought you'd put us in the corner. Right? But no, gentlemen, our task is to reveal the deception, and we are doing it: only by showing everyone that the king is naked is slavery killed. And you are now naked in the face of the screaming of your rhetorical words with the facts; naked as you vote in favour of the amendment that threatens to punish the Municipalities who try to limit gambling; naked, in the silence of the House, where the strong words of my colleague Endrizzi are just thundered. But the Senate approves! And you don't need to reverse your new leader, you don't need to repent, you need to make up for it. Where were you? What did you think? This counts and counts to ask: in case Endrizzi's speech had not lit such a strong reflector on your rude nudity, would you have recanted? No, because the political parties allow themselves to be operated by the various Tinelli in circulation, from Telecom to slot machines, to the salaries of the public executives, to the cancellation of fines to De Benedetti, as did Clini at the beginning of the year with Autostrade SpA. In this way the interests and conveniences of some are made to the detriment of all. Everyone has declared this maneuver useless. We have added that this law is illegal for the dozens of particularistic and micro-sectoral norms, unworthy gifts, in violation of Article 81 of the Constitution, as amended. Millions of euros for ex-combatants associations; hundreds of thousands of euros for the guide dog school; 20 million euros for Radical Radio; 220 million euros for private schools; 10 million euros for the places of Pope John's memory; million euros for the realization of posters, conferences, exhibitions and publications on the events of the First World War. The liquidation of the company Stretto di Messina SpA is withdrawn on the left. Foundations - again and again the Expo - are getting funds and reliefs, while the appropriations for triggering growth, recovery, reclamation, failure, work and small and medium-sized enterprises remain derisory and irrelevant. Last - but not least - the brand at the publishing lobby for which, with the decree of the Council of Ministers of last Friday 13 December, the exclusion of e-books from incentives is arranged. New taxes on smartphones, tablets and PCs, i.e. the future of communication, and allows AGCOM to issue an unparalleled resolution on copyright. But what is behind this law? There is the IUC, which will have the effect of reducing the balance of the municipal budgets by one and a half billion euros, without allowing deductions for which, even those who would not pay the IMU, will be forced to pay the service tax. There is a very timid increase in the mini-patrimony on financial products; unstabilized ecobonus; generic interventions for families under the poverty line, which naturally have nothing to do with forms of citizenship income demanded from several parts, even from Europe, which would be a safe and recognized multiplier with domino effect for the economy. There is the much praised cut of the tax wedge and the intervention on pensions, a solution (pare) for 17,000 exodus: all results irrelevant to citizens, since there are still too many exodus left without pension and without work and that the tax wedge will bring just 18 euros per month in paycheck, counting also the thirteenth. It does not attack debt, it does not affect the reduction of waste expenditure, it does not involve structural investments, it does not cut taxes (but rather, by providing for a sure future reduction of the reductions, in fact, increases them) and it takes away resources from the municipalities. Does Giorgio Squinzi like this maneuver? No, the currency is certainly insufficient to restart the country. Camusso likes you? No, you agree that it is a sum of rules for small lobbyists and does not interest the country. The municipalities, which have been harassed, punished and threatened by this fiscal manoeuvre, have suspended their participation in all institutional meetings. The Court of Auditors doesn't like it. Europe doesn't like it. Then the Government only has to admit that we would have wanted to do more: Fassina says so. All that remains is to accept it, because it is now too clear that austerity is counterproductive in times of crisis and it is Europe's fault and that this economic policy is taking the eurozone as the Titanic closer and closer to the iceberg. And then finally to admit that it is true that the keys to change are not in this national Parliament in Brussels, that is where we must lead our battle. We've seen that the government with Angelino knows perfectly well how to do the discharge. So it's Europe's fault, are you? What is this unnecessary and illegal tax maneuver, how far is it from the objectives to which we had to aim? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u23	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u24	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say that the country did not deserve to be present at such a poor show at the end of the year. A law of stability criticized by all, by Europe, because it will not allow us very likely to comply with the budgetary obligations for 2014; by the social partners, who have witnessed the waste of resources in a thousand streams; by the mayors, who ask to be heard by the Head of State. This law of political instability has thus become a caravanserraglio of disparate and localistic initiatives. With the recent reform of the accounting law, the aim was to eliminate the localistic and micro-sectoral amendments of the stability law. The House, however, much more than the Senate, compared to an initial text of the Government that already contained a good list, introduced a myriad of additional localistic and clientele dispositions. I am thinking of the appropriations for the areas of Ripalta-Torre Calderina caves, for the 70th anniversary of the war of liberation, for the multimedia tactile pole of Catania or for the World Championships of women's volleyball: the list of micro-sectoral appropriations could continue for a long time and it is really unbecoming, in many cases it makes people smile sincerely, or cry, depending on their opinions. The overall indecision on various issues is also questionable. Some rules risk being declared unconstitutional or being blocked by an infringement procedure; for this reason the web tax, better known as Google tax, contested by the same PD secretary, has been reworded in running. The latter is the case - of course - of the rule that in its version prior to this intervention in extremis required the internet companies to have an Italian VAT number in order to sell in our country, neglecting the fact that these companies often invoice from Ireland, which is part of the European Union, and above all that on this issue, which is in reality global, has engaged even a recent G20, which has installed special study groups. In fact, in the final text the obligation to open VAT numbers in Italy has disappeared for those entities that carry out e-commerce, while it remains for advertising spaces and copyright. So, too, on the Tobin tax amendment, after lengthy negotiations, the Government undertook to report to the Budget Committee by January and to address the issue during the Italian Presidency. This is yet another non-organic response, which does not foreshadow what would be needed, namely a clear long-term strategy for reducing the tax burden. It is clear to everyone that in a country like ours a shift towards a lower tax regime should be encouraged. The science of finance provides clear indications: it loses the country that fights solo against tax competition, as the most immediate response is to favour other markets. We are not talking about the rules which, in my opinion, are unconstitutional, such as those relating to pensions and in particular those relating to the contribution of solidarity and those which differentiate indexing according to the amount. The ballet on real estate taxation has then become indecent, a pull and spring of various rethinks: the issue of the IMU is not resolved at all, that, after having called ICI, IMU, service tax, TRISE (containing TASI and TARI) and then TUC, now, finally, is called IUC. It is symptomatic of this the fact that the president of the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI), Piero Fassino, has denounced (I quote a statement from him) that: "from our coffers one and a half billion euros are missing," which is like saying that the revenue of the new tax on the house, which will start on 1 January, does not guarantee the resources necessary to the local authorities. As if that were not enough, the new jump provides that the amounts of deductions for families with dependent children are much lower: from 250 euros of old taxes to 25 euros. Since the time available to me is running out, I would like to be able to deliver the full text of my speech, so that it can be published in the Report and I begin to conclude. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). In conclusion, this is a timid manoeuvre, where there is an increase in taxes and which does not focus on the need to lower public expenditure. In many, these days, they have spoken of a tax and spending policy. In my opinion, however, there are two most serious problems that are not addressed: one is the lack of a policy for the development of enterprises, which we hear so much about in television debates. The second problem is the lack of policies aimed at the recovery of consumption. These are the two issues which could lead to the recovery of our economy, but which once again, with this law of stability, have not been addressed at all. I say this because dealing with these two problems could give the opportunity to attack the greatest evil of our country and our economy, which is unemployment. Only by combining a policy for industrial development and a recovery in consumption could we really try to attack this problem, of which there is no trace in this law. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u25	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u26	Mr President, representative of the Government, you have already put your trust in the House of Deputies and we will soon be in touch, even if it has not yet been formally placed. I had imagined that before Christmas this would happen, so much so that I had booked to speak as early as December 11. You are predictable: your only real intention is to stay in these buildings until the end of the European semester, at which meetings you will go and protect all the interests that have allowed you to stay in these rooms: the interests of the banks, now queens and regime in this world. You had the courage to include the rule on the revaluation of the shares of Banca d'Italia in the decree-law on the second instalment of the IMU. This is your technique: always put in the various decrees a little content for your senders. Some call it a march, and perhaps they are right, given that someone in this House has said that he and his party have been beating the sidewalk for thirty years! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] By now your employer is not the people, but the world's finance, which plays with our lives for theirs and for your dirty interests. You are constantly in the electoral campaign: you accused us of demagogy and populism, but it seems to me that today your secretary, colleagues in the PD, often reports our words. You've started talking about citizens and using our phrases, like: Nobody has to stay behind. Your words are useless. By now your existence is hung by a thread that, even if you try to change its color, will not hold. He can't stand it. It doesn't have to hold. Common people, including us 50 citizens spokesperson for the 5 Star Movement, no longer have time. Everyone doesn't have time to listen to you anymore. Your good words full of promise don't fill your belly. We've always said that. We have also shouted it in this House. We need a full rescue plan. You talk a lot about savings, benefits for families and for the school and meanwhile, with a decree of the Council of Ministers, Friday 13, the government excluded electronic publishing from the incentives for publishing: to the face of computerization! You are giving Italy, which has been on the brink of bankruptcy for years now, instructions day by day and, every day, change the indication of the previous day. Does it seem normal to you that the Government of a nation rich in culture, landscapes and valiant people cannot formulate a valid project, but also listen? You are not even able to listen to this House. Italian politics, in recent years, has reduced Italy to a castle of sand where you too, every day, try to put on a new grain, removing it from the foundations. A solid house is based first of all on a concrete project from which you can see, or at least identify, the final result and, if the foundations are not solid, they adapt with right projects. Instead, everything you have done in recent months leads us to think that you either have no idea of a concrete project, and you hide behind twists of words, or you really want to bring Italy to be a colony of Europe. You propose an electoral law that is based on bipolarism, of the conservative and reformist type, or right and left that no longer exist. Today the only real distinction that exists is between poor and rich and it is the fault of the Italian politics of the last twenty years. You have made us poor and you want to keep us poor, poor economically, poor in education, poor in culture: all this to continue to govern behind a thousand words, without a valid content, and forcing the people, who are and must remain sovereign, ignorant of your real intentions to sell Italy and Italian sovereignty. You won't be able to stop us. We will continue to stay in these rooms and denounce all your shameful measures, full of packages and counterpacks. It's too bad that we're left with the empty package, too! If you want to fill it, you too will be paid into the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Give a hope for Christmas! (The Senators of the M5S Group display signs with the words: You return, too. If we can do it, you can do it too.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u27	Please, we have already seen and had the opportunity to appreciate. I beg Senator Bottici to bring order back to the House. Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u28	Mr President, the Stability Act is a fulfillment of Law 196 of 2009 on the reform of the Accounting Act, which defines the economic policy objectives and the framework of the economic forecasts of public finance for the next three years. The measure would have to contain measures to improve disastrous public accounts that see, every day, increase the public debt and worsen the economic and financial condition of the country. I would like to point out that, according to the Bank of Italy, in October the public debt reached the stratospheric figure of EUR 2,085 billion. A law of serious stability had to contain a few articles, with public finance balances, measures to promote growth, measures to reduce public expenditure and how to meet the commitment made with the Europe of fiscal compact since 2015. You made it an omnibus law. I wonder what we will look like in Europe when we bring a document that contains everything less what the country needs. Moreover, we cannot hide that the measure, rather than improving during the parliamentary passages, has been greatly modified and worsened: it was 26 articles, 350 amendments have been made and it has become 748 paragraphs. On the merits, this law of stability is completely unreliable and tragically inadequate (as Alberto Alesina says on yesterday's "Corriere della Sera"). Your forecasts of GDP growth of 1.1 percent are absolutely daring. An increase in GDP of 1.1 percent in 2014 has no basis; ISTAT already says that GDP will only increase by 0.7%. I am well aware of the reliability of your forecasts (I was already a Member of Parliament in the last parliamentary term). I remember those of President Monti: in 2012 GDP will score -0.4 percent, in 2013 +0.3 and +1 percent in 2014. We know how it ended: GDP fell by 2.4% in 2012, two points higher than forecast. Even this year things did not get better: -1.9% compared to the -0.2 forecast by President Letta. It would already be a miracle if this year's GDP were confirmed in 2014. We are frank: either you have no confidence in what is happening in the country and ignore that this year 50,000 production companies have closed down, 13,000 have delivered books to court, unemployment is at 12.5 percent and we have a billion hours of cash integration, or you are in bad faith. Anyway, I think you've wasted your time, wasted another chance to do what the country needs. If there is no election, another manoeuvre will be necessary in the coming months. The government debt ratio parameter has already exceeded 130%, will be out of control in the coming months and Italy will be subject to a new infringement procedure. You have not understood that our condition can only be improved if growth starts again. To restart growth, we need massive measures and resources to make our economic system more competitive. The urgent need for reductions in labour costs, the tax wedge and the tax burden had to be tackled in a strong and courageous way. What you have done are only symbolic, façade operations that do not affect and do not change the substance of the Italian condition. We need to create jobs. Five years without employers' contributions for new hires: only in this way can the economy be shared; and don't talk about cover, because a person who doesn't work is a cost to the state, a person who works produces wealth for the country. We needed a firm cut in public spending. We are all convinced that public spending can be reduced by reducing waste and stealing, by rationalising services. You have not understood that the Italy that works is not able to bear a public apparatus like the one that our country has. In conclusion, I wish the Italians every success in the coming year, but I am very concerned, because, Mr President, unfortunately, the future, at least the immediate one, will not be as wonderful as someone wants them to believe. Anyway, do what you want. The important thing is that you take on your responsibilities. We have told you what was needed and you have made ears as a merchant, greetings and happy New Year to all! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Milo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u30	Mr President, I would like to begin by denouncing the Government's continued use of decree-laws for measures which are not appropriate in terms of substance, with the aims for which they are adopted, nor do they comply with the constitutionally prescribed urgency requirements. Not the last cause of this institutional and processical flooding, is the request of confidence from Minister Franceschini last night in the Chamber of Deputies. Where does the problem come from? The problem arises from a rule included in the bill of stability, precisely in paragraph 389 of Article 1, which is in direct contrast to Article 2-a of Decree-Law No 120 of 2013. Due to these rules, both of which will be in force on 1 January 2014, Minister Franceschini put his trust in Decree-Law No 126 of 31 October 2013 on local authorities. But that is not the important problem. The important problem is that of merit, because the Italian State on 1 January 2014 will find itself with two rules approved by Parliament that say exactly the opposite. I refer to Article 2-a of Decree 120 and paragraph 389 of Article 1 of the draft Stability Act under consideration. A rule, Mr President, which concerns the famous rentals of the premises used by the public administration. According to the Undersecretary Legnini in the Budget Committee it would seem a rule suggested by the General Accounting of the State. This is also a very strange aspect. But much more strange is the last part of the paragraph, in which it is said that: the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 do not apply for the leases of properties owned by the mutual funds of real estate investment already established, as well as the properties owned by third parties who are suing such funds. That is what concerns me a little more, Mr President, apart from the fact that we will meet again on 1 January with two rules which say exactly the opposite. Article 2-a of Decree No 120 says that any public administration (not within the scope and therefore I do not express my position on this matter) can cancel any form of contract within 30 days. Paragraph 389 of Article 1 of the bill of stability, on the other hand, in addition to the contractual clause, provides for a period of at least three months to allow the examination and evaluation of merit by the State property agency. Unfortunately, on the 28th of this month, Mr President, we will meet again here to approve the decree-law on local authorities, or save Rome (as someone has called it). Another aspect that concerns me, Mr President, is that contained in paragraph 148 of Article 1 of the bill of stability, devastating to this Parliament, because it recalls a decree-law not yet converted (the decree-law IMU-Banca d'Italia). Imagine, Mr President, just for a moment if we did not convert that decree-law. We will find ourselves with a law of stability that recalls a rule that has not been converted. I am not a jurist, I do a different job, but I think there is some vice of legitimacy in this rule, although it is true that the rules by decree-law are norm. However, let us imagine for a moment that this decree-law is not converted: we would find ourselves - as I said - with a law of stability that refers to a norm that does not exist. But that's not enough. The devastating thing about this Parliament is paragraph 148 concerning the Bank of Italy and, more specifically, the shares of the members of the Bank of Italy. While we are here today discussing, after unnecessarily tabling amendments to the Commission on Saturday and Sunday, given what will happen in a few moments (I am referring to the Government's request for confidence), the Bank of Italy has already convened an assembly that is taking place in these minutes to approve what will be contained in the so-called Banca d'Italia decree-law. Mr President, I wonder what Parliament is doing, what we are doing here (in fact, not to involve you, I am not saying us, but I am talking about me). The truth is that here there are amateurs on the brink, that is who governs the country is an amateur on the brink. I do not want to offend anyone, but this is not conceivable in a democratic country. I do not speak, then, of paragraph 748 of article 1 of the bill of stability (I am proceeding by flash), which consolidates an oligopoly in our country, that is that of the CONSIP, extending - with the excuse of having to solve the employment problems - all its contracts. Mr President, as you certainly know, CONSIP is an oligopoly to which all Italian small and medium-sized enterprises must submit. This is not conceivable in a democratic country, in a moment of crisis so horrible for our productive system. Mr President, this bill of stability is exactly the opposite of what the government is professing. In fact, he has derogation many times from Decree-Law No. 78 of 2010 on the turnover block. I am not referring to Calabria, which is a region to which all the credit goes, but you, Mr President, have read that in Calabria they will stabilize all socially useful workers (LSU)? I am not opposed to the stabilisation of the LSU in Calabria, but I believe that these workers are equal in all the regions of Italy. This must be said to Woodcock, a magistrate who is interested in buying sales: if that of the LSU of Calabria is a way to pay someone to stay in the majority, then we should inform Woodcock. Mr President, you or Minister Franceschini should explain to me why the LSUs in Veneto, Lombardy or Campania do not stabilize as well. I'd like to understand why. That is the merit of the amendment. If the magistrates are interested in buying parliamentarians, they must also take care of the LSU of Calabria. Otherwise they do not do their duty: either they always do it or they never have to do it! They must not do so on the basis of a criterion of sympathy or antipathy. I shall conclude, Mr President, by stressing that there is nothing developing in the draft stability law under consideration, but there are 120 recruitments from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, plus 20, plus 2 million for communication for the European Semester and - as I have already said - the issue of Calabria and many other emoluments, things that some call marchettes and others define in a different way. However, it is important to point out - in this regard I asked the Commission for clarification from the representative of the Government - that there is funding of EUR 200,000 for a feasibility study on mobility in the Strait of Messina. In the premise of the relevant paragraph, it is stated that the construction of the bridge over the Strait has been temporarily suspended. My question, also on behalf of my Sicilian colleagues, is: does this Government really want to implement the bridge over the Strait of Messina? The Cohesion and Development Fund, referred to in the initial paragraphs of this measure, then gives the Minister a series of decrees to continue the marches or localisms, as happened in scraping CIPE funds and doing the subways. At the beginning there was Padua, then a few colleagues got mugged by Minister Lupi, who also included Milan-Lambrate and Venice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, otherwise I'll have to take your word for it, and I'd be sorry. Milo (GAL). If this is the way to proceed, our poor Italians are really bad! [[Applause from the LAG Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u31	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u32	Mr President, our overall view of this is negative. The objective of this manoeuvre is not the growth of the country, but the respect of the constraints of the Stability Pact; austerity is stabilised and with it, unfortunately, depression. There is no plan for work, the first real emergency in this country. SEL has proposed a three-year experimental plan for work, with a three-year budget of about 20,500,000 euros, which can ensure the recruitment of about 300,000 unemployed in three years; a work plan aimed at creating quality employment, stable, clean, unarmed and aimed at improving the quality of life of our citizens and therefore of the country. There are no resources for the work plan proposed by us, but you did not want to tax financial transactions and taxation on financial annuities. You have instead found more than two billion to build new warships and you have done nothing to prevent the closure of the Ansaldo, which built trains, and the Irisbus, which built buses (and I would like to remind you that in Italy we pay fines to the European Community because our buses are old and polluting). You have found billions to finance large unnecessary and harmful works, such as the Lyon-Turin railway route. You have proposed the reduction of the tax wedge, which unfortunately will have very limited effects (one coffee is said every two days for citizens). This will not promote the competitiveness of companies and will not stimulate either production or consumption. These are sums that could have been used to finance the work plan. But job creation must be accompanied by the guarantee of workers' rights (which, I would like to remind you here, are Italian citizens), by those principles of civilisation which do not include unjustified dismissals, sometimes even political ones, the right to job security, the abolition of flexibility, a tool used to restore the control of companies over workers, to reduce costs, to increase profits and - alas - to reduce more and more the areas of democracy in the workplace. In this House a few days ago there was an exceptional person, a person who has made history in the world: I am referring to Nelson Mandela; well, I would like to remind you that democracy and rights are increasingly being abolished in the workplace, while discrimination is unfortunately increasing more and more. In order for the memory of such an exceptional person not only to be a passage, a well-established practice, but a real tribute to people who have given so much to the world for democracy, I want these things to be put into practice. Since the time available to me is very limited, Mr President, I would ask you to allow me to deliver the full text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u33	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u34	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). I would just like to make two final comments. The law of stability does not address the problems of exodus, which has solved in any way. I would like to remind you that the many exodus who have remained outside have made a pact with the State and I believe that the State must meet these citizens. I also remember that he did almost nothing about solidarity contracts: here we talk about economics, we talk about restoring certain fundamental principles. I believe that the instrument of solidarity contracts is one of the few that would guarantee this. Finally, as far as the problem of democracy in the workplace is concerned, since everyone here is talking about democracy, fundamental trade union rights and trade union representation mechanisms must be restored. Parliament must adopt a law on worker representation, otherwise we are talking about issues that become incomprehensible to citizens. I wonder and ask you how they will be chosen - since we approve amendments on this matter - by the delegates who will be on the boards to represent their colleagues, in the absence of a law on representation chosen by workers; who will decide how to participate in the co-management of businesses? [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, if we really need to talk about democracy and the development of this country, I believe that words must follow the facts. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u36	Mr President, illustrious colleagues, members of the Government and honourable citizens, this bill of stability confirms the absolute inadequacy of this Government and its embarrassing inability to offer the country any hope of emerging from the crisis. The President of the Republic had presented this Government as that, capable of representing the best of the current political class; Today it is now before everyone's eyes, as the 5 Star Movement repeatedly denounced, that we are faced with a band of young old people who are only attentive to guaranteeing the survival of old and unjust privileges in favour of parties and power lobbys, which in recent years have reduced citizens to the threshold of poverty. Gold rents, web tax, unconstitutional privatizations of common goods such as water, shameful taxes on families and business, the mess of the Provinces, are emblematic examples of the inability and bad faith of this Government. Many other scandalous regulatory predictions have been hidden in the folds of a measure as usual cured by the expedient of trust; an instrument now distorted and undemocratic by its abnormal use. You can remember the 20 million euros in two years recognized to Radio Radicale - the radio of the party of dear Minister Bonino - for the transmission of parliamentary work, despite the presence of a dedicated FM radio channel of RAI (RAI Parliament) - that over the years has cost tens and tens of millions of euros to the pockets of citizens. Twenty million in two years for a party radio that in Italy listen in a few, much more than what this Government has intended for the purchase of school books for our children. If there were time, one could continue for hours to remember the political nefariousness of this phantom ruling class: from illegitimate funding to parties, to state trips with family members, to life policies with the funds of parliamentary groups and so on. But we are at Christmas, we respect at least the citizens' desire to have a moment of serenity. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, Ministers, give everyone a gift, resign and return home! Only in this way will this country be able to recover the hope of a better future. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u37	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u38	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen (those few who are still present and whom I thank), the measure returns to the Senate at its third reading after a further assault on the House's diligence. Actions that confirm even more how in this law there is the absence of programming, programming which should instead be the main feature of the law of stability. Other than investment, land-use security, work, business, cutting public spending. Instead we find many, too many spot appropriations that go to finance interventions called elegantly micro-sectoral, but that we barbarians of the League call marchettes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The bill of stability today at our examination, worsened by the House, is for the North League and for the country, which is in a dramatic situation, absolutely unacceptable, discontented all. This is a dramatic time. The majority may not have noticed or perhaps pretended not to see, but all the main economic indicators have a negative sign. It is enough to read also the last report of Censis a few days ago to have a photograph of the dramatic reality in which our people pour, in which families, in which our productive system pours, in which our enterprises pour. The announced growth is not seen on the horizon and our companies in the meantime continue to close, penalized by an unequal taxation in Europe and in the world, penalized by an exorbitant labour cost, penalized by an energy cost that puts them, in fact, out of the market. There are no longer any entrepreneurs who have decided to relocate, but not in emerging countries or tax havens, but a few kilometres from our borders, as in Carinthia, Slovenia, Switzerland. Unemployment has record levels. The figure of youth unemployment is terrifying: we have come to break 40%. The government is incapable of investing in them and, therefore, in the future of our country. Then it is more and more our young people who, resigned, go abroad to try to secure a future that they cannot see here. Our local authorities, as if that were not enough, are stifled by a Stability Pact which lays almost all the savings constraints imposed by this Europe on them. Our mayors, our local administrators today no longer know how to make their budgets square, but this majority does not seem to be interested in anything; no measures, in this law of stability, have been taken in their favour. In fact, with another measure, the Delrio bill, we want to dismantle the system of local autonomy in favour of the return of centralism, justifying it with the aim of saving expenditure. Only the savings will never be there. There's only gonna be chaos. The situation is absolutely serious, and it required clear and clear choices that have unfortunately not been made. Those assumed are instead shameful and in total countertrend with the needs of the country. We remember some of them among the most lucrative: the recruitments of 120 people for the management of the funds of the European Union; the 135 million for the socially useful workers of Palermo, Naples and Calabria; the 2 million for the citrus fruits of Sicily; the million euro for the orchestra of San Carlo di Napoli; the 3 million destined to the marine transport of the Strait of Messina; another 4,5 million euro in order to assume new forest guards. And how not to quote the 340 million for Salerno-Reggio Calabria, eternal unfinished? We have forgotten the unemployed and most of the refugees, to whom we have not yet given concrete answers, which were absolutely due and due. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We have seen, in this financial year, an endless series of funding for associations, friends of friends, which, in our view, are unacceptable. I would like to take the example of the 22 million reduction in urbanisation costs that Sorgenia would have had to pay for its power plants. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The government, instead of being on the side of the municipalities, has defended the interests of private individuals, especially those with Democratic Party Card No. 1. In short, there is no strategic vision of this Government and this majority. There is absolutely nothing to suggest for the future. We see that the crisis is only made to pay for the usual known ones. There was no sign of a counter-trend on the reduction of public expenditure. There is no trace of the realization of a part of fiscal federalism, such as that relative to the standard costs. Two small reflections on the protection of the territory and the house. As for the first topic, the few resources allocated (only 180 million in the three years 2014-2016, ridiculous sum for a serious strategy directed to the security of the territory, and Sardinia should teach it), will be destined, according to an amendment introduced to the House, also to the protection and recovery of ecosystems and biodiversity, issues certainly important, but not so much to subtract the already scarce resources for the safety of the territory. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On the house then shows the superficiality, amateurism and confusion that still reigns in the government. The confirmation came from illustrious representatives of the Executive who in recent days have candidly admitted that on the deductions of the TASI and on more you will have to return with other decrees of urgency. Dear Government, I begin to conclude by saying that as a North League and Autonomy we have tabled a few dozen amendments to the law of stability with the intention of eliminating all gifts for the South and devoting those funds, equal to about 400 million, to cutting the tax wedge. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We shall see who will vote in favour of our proposals across the board among the Members of the North. Majority and government know that we intend to fight and go all the way on these issues, on this measure and on the next ones. We will not make discounts; the North no longer has to pay for customer assistance in the South. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u39	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u40	Citizen President (and citizens who are outside, because there is no one in here; therefore, we can only speak to those outside)...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u41	Speak, Senator Cioffi, because you only have three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u42	CIOFFI (M5S). ...this law of stability, as many people have said, contains many marchettes, many localistic interventions. The good thing is that this way of doing is contrary to another law of the State, Law No 196 of 2009, which states that there can be no localistic or micro-sectoral intervention in the law of stability. So it's nice that we make a law that runs counter to another law. This behavior is a psychiatric disorder, it is a split personality; it is the personality of a two-faced Giano. There is also a beautiful statue of a two-faced Giano in the Vatican Museums, which are so dear to those who want to finance private schools. This is very interesting. Many times in this period I have heard various senators say: I'll bring home something for my territory............................................................................ This is the way we do things, which I think is really sad: are we going back to localism? Localism is also combined by the fact that we financed, for example, the metro of Padua, a city of which Minister Zanonato was mayor until recently. If a minister can do it, why can't Members do it? There, the fish always stinks from the head. We should learn to be a little different. There is not even a hypothetical direction in this bill of stability: it has been completely disarticulated, watered down. There's no direction left. What is clear is that what has been done is neither progressive behavior nor liberal behavior. You are only decadent little Christian Democrats: this is what happened. Let's take a few more examples. We've heard of a tax wedge. Well, let's reduce the tax wedge: let's give more money to workers and reduce the costs for businesses. By intervening, however, only on the tax wedge, without understanding what is behind it and what is the industrial policy that we must do, we cure the symptoms of a disease, but we never cure the disease. When we do this thing, it's like we want to fight anxiety with an anxiolytic or diarrhea with a lemon. We are always wrong to act, and this way of acting is really wrong. We must make a different industrial policy, we must understand what we want to do, what is the direction we want to take, what are the right things to do. What industrial policy do we have? Do we have an industrial policy? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi, finish your speech. CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I just want to say that we often understand that we are neither meat nor fish in this direction. You who have made this law and who now vote for it, are like the dipnoi, those small fish that belong to a species appeared on earth 400 million years ago. These dipnoi live in a den made of mucus and resist for four years to drought in the various African lakes, and are a remnant of the Paleozoic era: perhaps it is time for you to extinguish, you who have elaborated this bill of stability, and that leave room for 'homo sapiens! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u43	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u44	Mr President, government gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I will say at once that for those who have convincedly voted on trust in this Government last April, sharing the positions and programme of Prime Minister Letta, and for those who supported him, waiting 60 days for the former Secretary of the Democratic Party to complete all its checks, it is sad and bitter to have to say again a firm no on the basis of assessments that are not functional, instrumental to a political position, but that clearly record the state of malaise in the country. In fact, 15 million Italians live in a condition of social hardship and deprivation (it is about 25 percent of the population); 40 percent of this part of the population living in suffering is located in the South; purchasing power has decreased by 4.8 percentage points; there are 5 million poor and 7.5 million unemployed. Moreover, in the South, in addition to the problem of unemployed job seekers, there is the problem of the unemployed young people who no longer even seek work for a sort of resignation, which combines with anger, anguish and anxiety about a stolen future. I have to think that perhaps we really need to speed up the so-called constitutional reforms and the new state architecture, because if we had passed the bicameral equal system we would probably have saved a reading for this bill of stability and the government would have done even less damage. I say this because we had worked not with obstructive purposes, but with a collaborative spirit, to offer to the Government indications and suggestions through the amendment phase, made with responsibility, with that responsibility that the Country today asks torn apart by the suffering of those who came to lighthouses turned off in a tunnel and can no longer find a way out. That responsibility, during the previous reading here in the Senate, led us to do a job that remains valid, for the quality and quantity of the amending interventions that we have presented and that we also seem to have been considered really too much, if not presumptuously. At the third reading today we can only add further assessments in the opposite direction, negative, for reasons of method and merit. As everyone knows, it has already been said that the bill of stability is the whole of the norms that establish the economic course of the country, it is an act of strategic importance in the legislative production of the entire year, and above all it becomes today when the country is desperately looking for a polar star that puts politics back on track and brings it before the people to respond to its responsibilities with its straight back. This should have been served by broad understanding. The "groβe Koalition" in Germany allows you to do things that you probably can't do here, while something could have been done right through the broad understandings, in the emergency condition in which we are. On the other hand, we have not had an economic policy capable of reversing the course: we have once again proposed a policy of higher taxes and higher spending, with the centrality of an intrusive, pervasive, wasteful state and many times - ahinoi - corrupt. We have failed to take the path of recovery; we have failed to deliver a climate of political peace to the country; we have failed to identify a serious path to deliver constitutional reforms to the country. You yourself, Mr President, also had to hand over the electoral law to the other branch of Parliament. We'll see what happens to the constitutional reforms entrusted to the Senate. It is clear from the clear, concise and effective statements that my assessment is not a biased one. I would also like to say bitter and sharp statements by the President of Confindustria, who spoke of a porcata, stating that he did not expect more. The Camusso spoke, instead, of stability without vision and without strategy, while on the "Corriere della sera" of today Alberto Alesina speaks of a law of stability "tragically inadequate." This is the report that is expressed, not by the representative of a political party that, despite him, has passed with the party to which he belongs to the opposition, but by authoritative representatives of the social partners, without particular aggression, but nevertheless with a clear and clear assessment of what is happening in the country. (Ambrosio Lettieri) (Ambrosio Lettieri). That is the reality. An absolutely inauspicious landing place, which goes in the opposite direction to what it would have been legitimate to expect and which has been lost in a squalid and painful haggling, probably because this majority, which has been so deeply and tormentedly altered over the last few weeks, needed, needs and probably will need to make square the political balances within it. This is why - someone did it before me - a series of tips and tips was used, of gifts made in an absolutely decontextualized way compared to a serious and organic problem of overall scope, satisfying a long series of police officers. A maneuver, therefore, of survival and not a maneuver of revival. We asked for a serious intervention on the tax wedge: it was part of our electoral programme and of the commitment we made in the election campaign. We tried to do so, without raising the tone of voice, but with great pragmatism, taking on the economic condition of the country. Perhaps 20 billion would have been needed; it could have been enough 10 to start, but we have to settle for 2. Workers will find 14 euros more in paycheck. Porcata was and piggy remains; a measure which, unfortunately, has also betrayed the commitments that had been made. Not to mention the IMU: the value that the house has in our political sensitivity is very high. To that we would have wanted to give an answer, with a significant reduction in taxation on the first house. Instead, we have been given, among a thousand acronyms, from the IMU to the TRISE, from the TASI to the IUC, a great mess, because through - we could say - artifices and tricks has committed a real deception to the detriment of the Italians, who will find out lately that they will pay more. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). This is a serious fact - I conclude, President - because when in a country you do not know when, how much and how you pay taxes, you obviously go from being citizens, endowed with a role and a strategic function within a democratic country, to the role of subjects. We believe that this country cannot be condemned to the role of subjection of a Government that is incapable of giving a guide and a line of recovery, at least of hope, if not of the answers that it would also be legitimate to begin to receive. Perhaps the government will be content to eat panettone, but neither the Italians nor of course the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group will settle for panettone. That is why we shall vote, with regret but also with great determination, against this deception measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the debate you have presented this bill of stability as the structural element to restart growth. However, in line with the old political school of pleasing everyone, you pulled the blanket for pleasure at the usual courtyard of the Palace, without looking any further. You did not want to stabilize the ecobonus by 2020, extending it by only two years and ignoring the result of the failure to create 1.5 million related jobs. You have not identified measures to support environmental and territorial protection. You have not included actions to strengthen the promotion of efficiency, renewables and energy decentralisation. Instead, you considered it right to support with millions of euros once again the big producers, with the capacity payment and the exemption of the urbanization charges (with the "poor" De Benedetti), but ignoring the problems of the country and the alarms that the UN and the world of science launches: it is indispensable to reduce emissions of climate-friendly gases, and to do so we need to reduce the use of fossils and increase energy efficiency. This transition, this new industrial revolution, disturbs the balance of the great economic interests born and grown with fossil fuels, destined to be overcome and replaced by a new energy system, decentralised, low-carbon, renewable and efficiency. Colleagues, these signals must be heard for two important aspects: the first, in order to guarantee the future of the next generations, avoiding other waste, other land of fires, other Ilva, other Porto Marghera. The second - as I have already said - is to reap the benefits that the new industrial revolution can bring by restarting economic growth, thanks to the creation of new jobs in the businesses of the green economy. A road to persevere, which the 5 Star Movement wants to travel looking at our goal to reach: 100 percent renewable energy at 2050. An ambitious objective that will commit us from the definition of the new European targets to 2030 on renewables, efficiency and emissions, which will have to be binding. A challenge that the 5 Star Movement wants to grasp in a pragmatic way, talking about energy planning, sustainability, carbon tax as in France or Energiewende as in Germany, which plans to reach 45% renewables by 2025 and 60% by 2035. At the end of 2012, in Italy, there were almost 500,000 renewable power plants. A revolution of best practices that you do not want to see, which forces the lobbyists of fossils to ask for further subsidies for the survival of the dinosaurs of the Italian energy industry in your law of stability; a measure that could have been a new opportunity, while it remains the usual distribution of brands to the strongest, to which you are chained in a fossil way. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u47	Mr President, representatives of the Government, I believe you have proposed to the Italian people a law of war stability. I am referring to the war that the government does to the Italians, because it is a law of stability in which only taxes and no development are found, only a tarassamento that, like a burst of machine gun, hits families. I remember that in Italy we have over 4 million poor (4,800,000 poor people, we are told the statistics) and we have over 7 million unemployed or underemployed, even if this does not concern the red cooperatives or the business that is done on immigrants, to promote certain pro-government associations, such as Communion and Liberation (we all know that prevention is not done on the coasts of Africa, but we try to give benefits to friends of friends). All this involves a truly paradoxical situation: the families, who also had the thirteenth, cannot reach the end of the month even in December, because there are twelve-four taxes that everyone has to pay in this month of the end of the year. Then we exchange happy birthday greetings! With the financial maneuver on our examination, forest guards have still been employed. And where were they hired? They were hired in Calabria, by chance. The reason is of all evidence: some Calabrian senators have become pro-government and, not least, the president of that Region, Scopelliti. So we have more forest guards in Calabria than in Canada. We are at a paradoxical level: Canada - a country entirely covered by forests - there are fewer forest guards than in Calabria. It is clear that these are social but unilateral measures, such as those in favour of red cooperatives. In short, the work must not be given only to the red cooperatives or associations that refer to Communion and Liberation, or to the Regions that have become friends of this Government. One cannot think only of those who belong to a political faction. It cannot be administered only in favour of those who participate in the primaries of the Democratic Party. [[Comments by Senators Mirabelli and Fornaro.]] I say this to my colleagues in the PD: Socialism is to carry on all those born back, and not to carry forward those who participate in their political life. I am thinking of the speech on the merits and needs of craxian memory. [[Comments by Senators Mirabelli and Fornaro.]] Then, when GDP exceeded 4% and there was no depression due to a 2.4% decrease in GDP, it was thought about merits and needs: those who were born back, thought about social needs and favored those who had skills and merit, not those who had the right party cards, as happens in Tuscany, Umbria, Marche, Emilia and Liguria. The modification of Title V of Part II of the Constitution - then you say that the reforms must all be done together - has led to a great depression at the regional level, which will make us end Argentina, which had a strong debt accumulated by the provinces and a single currency: for Argentina it was the dollar, while we have the euro, but with German traction. Not surprisingly, Bersani before, as secretary of the Democratic Party, and Renzi now, before running, have gone to swear, like princes, to Merkel their will to follow this economic invasion that has led Germany. The European Union is now Baltic, not Mediterranean. South Italy is now a marginal region. We know perfectly well that the development of Italy and its recovery must pass also and above all to the South, but not through Europe, because this, from the economic point of view, is an element of depression for us: it considers Northern Italy the South of Austria and Germany, and therefore its inhabitants of the real terrons. If you attribute such a title to those Regions, much less and much worse. And then, on infrastructure, the 20-year lag gap has not been filled. We have railways, motorways, roads and ports that should be adapted to what should be an economic recovery, but on the contrary they are left to themselves and, therefore, there can be no recovery. Still, it is evident that the secretary of the CGIL and the president of the industrialists have criticized this law of stability, but it is those who have participated in it, and to play the game of the three cards. In fact, they know perfectly well that the law of stability is a law of depression and crazy taxation. Even on the house you will go from 20 billion to 40 billion. It is not true that Italian citizens will not pay the IMU: they will pay twice as much as the figure of a few years ago and compared to what will be in 2014. That is quite clear. Italians are coming from the municipalities, just these days, taxes on the house, waste, goods and services at individual demand that have all increased. Why are we not planning structural reforms on the type of judiciary? It is said that criminality costs us between 1% and 3% of gross domestic product. The European Union continues to reproach us, of course to bring infringement proceedings against Italy in this area, and we continue to ignore it, because we are blackmailed by what is a real economic, political and financial power, which has the possibility of life and death over everything, including the economy. But you wonder why in 2012 foreign investments in Italy were 9 billion, while in Spain 32 billion? It's almost the quadruple. In Spain and in other European countries, there is no bureaucracy that oppresses; there is no judiciary that has a lot of criminal and civil trials to make investments run away. I would like to point out that Italian industrialists are delocalising not in Albania or Romania, but in France and Switzerland, because they have more guarantees. In Italy doctors, who also have a training course if not equal but certainly superior... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, I remind you that your time is about to end. Barani (GAL). Thank you. These doctors, even though they have a great educational path behind them, must defend themselves, in giving care to the citizens, compared to what will happen to them when a judge will point them out as responsible for the death of a 102 year old girl: but the elixir of eternal life these doctors still do not have it. That is why structural reforms must be carried out on all five chapters, from the first to the fifth, without neglecting any of them. Having said that, I think I can say that we are giving a negative opinion on this bill of stability, in the light of the lack of structural reforms and of course the lack of development. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u48	Madam President, I ask the government: then? Are you still here? Still having to resort to trust to force us to drink this government Hood Robin's bitter chalice? I didn't say Robin Hood, because it took away the rich to give to the poor, while Hood Robin is the opposite: he doesn't give to the poor because he has to leave to the rich. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] There is no prospect in this financial plan, but there is melina. Do you know what melina is? It serves to take time without doing actions that can bring positive results to others, but these others are the citizens. What are you going to leave us? The ashes? Do you want the name of Attila to be associated with you, that we speak of "Governo Letttila"? It would be a name that, I cannot hide, arouses laughter, if it were not that you are managing our country. Do not tell me, President Letta, that I speak on behalf of a minority of the country and do not liquidate everything with his words that seem more delicate than oil, but in reality they are drawn swords. Do as Pope Francis, go on the street, camouflage among the common people and listen, listen to the scream of our people. I am asking you, on behalf of the Italian people, to dare, to go further if you can. From melina to action. Citizenship income: steal our bill (at least this time the action of stealing used it for another purpose). [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] Abolition of the Fornero reform: our parents are entitled to rest. Via l'IRAP for small enterprises: those who have an activity in Italy cannot bring capital abroad if they have not paid up to the last tax and the last contribution due to our country. It is the golden pensions that need to be tarassed, the ones that had with the pay system. To the minimum pensioners, we believe that we must ensure a higher income and provide a free minimum subsistence. Those who sell a country that doesn't belong to them will pay a very salty bill, and you gamble with your conscience.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u49	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u50	PUGLIA (M5S). I shall begin with the conclusion, Madam President. Listen to the voice and judgment of the royal country and, for the sake of the people, leave! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u51	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u52	Madam President, I do not wish to repeat what has already been said, even in the debate in the Commission, but I would like to reiterate my disappointment at this draft stability law. We are going to vote, but it is inevitably a vote against, Minister, and it is a vote against of disappointment, I would like to stress, because of the way in which this measure has been built and, above all, because of its content. We remember well how the government, after two months from the elections, started with the intention to face, taking the bull by the horns, a crisis through a very large majority that had to give it the strength to finally put hand to those great reforms that, even from the point of view of the immediate economic contributions, should have given adequate answers to a dramatic crisis. Although I am a convinced supporter of the bicameral system, even if differentiated in the missions, characteristic of all the advanced democracies, I must unfortunately note with deep regret that in our country now this bicameral structure of Parliament allows, instead, to add errors to mistakes, modify texts, norms, after a few days not only in violation of the rules of good institutions in being synergistic, in producing legislative texts, but dismenting one with the other. The regret with regard to the content is then growing for us because every change we see, from the beginning to the end of those additional paragraphs or modified by the work of the Chamber of Deputies, we realize that this law of stability contains almost no measure useful for growth, but many interventions scattered that, precisely as such, are, by definition, ineffective. We thought that the reform of the budget so much suffered in recent years and the important intervention on the whole legislation in terms of public accounting (I remember the amendment of Article 81 of the Constitution that we have worked precisely to secure the country also from this point of view) had put old tools of the Government and Parliament in the attic and a certain creativity in the interpretation of accounting rules. Instead we are here to deal with a bill of stability that looks like an old financial of the eighties and that wants to be once again - alas - just an attack on diligence. But today the country is exhausted, unlike then, by the increase in taxation operated mainly by the Government that preceded the current. In this bill, however, we continue to ignore all this, the cry of pain that comes up from our people, and we take on staff in the public administration, like the 120 new recruits of the Presidency of the Council which, of course, are the best response that this Government can give to the emergency of the country, which instead asks to cut public spending and to contain its costs both with regard to the instruments, and with regard to the staff, concentrating those resources to reduce the excessive level of taxation that exists in our country. Interventions of various kinds have made the balances worse. I express our concern at the overall worsening of budgetary balances. From here we understand well how the controversies that accompanied the work on this bill of stability before the Senate, but above all the House, are very justified. Out of approximately EUR 5 billion in central government expenditure for 2014, approximately EUR 1.5 billion is in capital account. But, to see it well, that 30% still has a negative trend in investment expenditure, those for the future, because they are all spending far less than the dynamics of current expenditure, which continues to grow. It is certainly not current expenditure, Madam President, which is the instrument that allows the development of the productive economic system, especially to emerge from a deep crisis such as the one we live in. If you do not want to know from us ask at least who is fighting in the country, in families, in companies this dramatic crisis and that it receives no help from this law of stability. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on a measure which is undoubtedly very important for the stability of our public finances, in a situation which is still serious for the country. Perhaps we are seeing the end of a long tunnel, thanks also to the measures launched by this Government and also by the Monti Government. Today, however, we know how important it is to put in place a political and economic strategy that allows Italy to overcome the gap with other European countries and to avoid transferring to other faults and responsibilities that we have for the lacked reforms: instead, political responsibility rests on us, today and in the coming days. In this draft stability law, we see one positive aspect: the balances are certainly respected, as are the European constraints. I recall that these constraints are not imposed, but are freely contracted by our country through the conclusion of international treaties and the Constitution of the European Union, which is not just an international treaty like all others: it is, in fact, the desire to build together a great institutional instrument, which allows us to withstand competition with the rest of the world and to face global challenges. Therefore, there is no doubt that, out of a sense of responsibility, we will vote in favour of the bill of stability under consideration, but it is equally doubtful that this measure on the formal level alters the commitments that had marked the idea of achieving a law of stability in which there was no need to face a thousand streams of expenditure, in which to disperse resources, entering into logics aimed at satisfying all those that are possible to satisfy. We have verified that despite this commitment (analogue to that assumed 35 years ago, when the financial law was established), with which we wanted to overcome the fragmentation to which the financial law led, we have unfortunately reached the same point: a law that becomes the diligence on which to raise everything and the opposite of everything, giving up to solve structurally some problems of the country. Therefore, from this point of view, while belonging to the majority, we are also disappointed by the bill of stability under consideration, as are many others who would have hoped for greater selectivity of interventions and the aggression of the structural defects of the Italy system. I repeat that our country struggles to engage the cart of recovery because it has a system that is profoundly different from those of other European states, which have the same constraints, the same currency, the same competition problems on the global markets, but they have a system that works much better than ours. In the draft stability law under consideration, we see problems that we had and that we thought were set aside again; we also see the disruption with respect to certain political agreements that we had entered into within the majority; we see all references to privatisations and liberalisations deleted; we see the stabilisation of staff within the structures of public companies, including non-strategic ones, which we believed had been set aside during the discussion and approval of the so-called D'Alia decree; we see passive labour policies that are financed with grandiose figures (over 1 billion additional), against minimum, albeit important, funding of 15 or 20 million euros for relocation contracts. In this bill of stability we are witnessing the paradox that almost 1 billion is allocated to the integration fund by way of derogation and - I repeat - only 15 million for the new instruments of active labour policies. We see, then, that in the parliamentary debate initiatives of some political forces or better of the main political power of majority, of which we are allies, cancel from the so-called salva-Roma decree (the one on local authorities and the Regions) interventions that want to favor privatization and offer the instrument of liberalization. We see deleted amendments trying to bring non-strategic public companies back to their liquidation or we see also deleted a generic reference to the innovative management of local public transport. Afterwards we see a question like that of the decree rentals, which will force us to see modified tomorrow in the decree milleproroghe the norm that we will go to approve today with the confidence, when perhaps it would be enough to apply article 3 of the decree Monti, that allowed the faculty of withdrawal to all the administrations included in the list ISTAT regarding the contracts that they had concluded with the private ones in order to make available real estate. In short, if we are to evaluate this law of stability on the merits, we see some positive aspects that are linked to the balances, to some interventions that try to help development and growth, but the system still does not satisfy us and the reformative wills, which are somehow claimed by several parties and which are also very propaganda in television broadcasts or talk shows, remain dead letter: indeed, we see that steps are taken backwards. Then we allow ourselves to say that today we will vote for the confidence on the measure under consideration because it is important as a signal to Europe, to the markets, to savers compared to the maintenance of the Italian system in these difficult years, but at the same time we cannot fail to tell the Government, which distractedly follows this parliamentary debate, with all respect for the Undersecretary De Camillis and Minister Mauro, that we will have to review our position, for example on the so-called Salva-Roma decree. We, the majority forces, also have something to ask for, a proof to be verified against the Government: we ask that the thousandprorogations decree include some of the issues that were deleted yesterday from the House with the decree save-Rome. We cannot accept being accused by public opinion and in the parliamentary classrooms of being among those who want to sell out the public system, want to sell out water, want to sell out networks, want to sell out energy, want to sell out the country system: that is not the case. If we are still here to discuss the difference between the ownership of networks that must belong to the public and the management of the service that must also take into account the needs of the market and must be able to open up to the market according to European directives, according to the Constitutional Court's judgments, it means that we have not taken a step forward compared to the political, economic and social culture that must characterize a modern country that wants to maintain its strength of seventh-eighth industrial power in the world, third in Europe and second in the manufacturing sector within the framework of our continental system. This we strongly ask, otherwise Friday or Saturday they will not be able to come to ask us for yet another confidence on a decree that does not face the challenges we are called to, of recovery on the one hand and of recovery on the other, because it is not only in public spending, in the public budget that we can find the resources, but it is freeing the energies of our economic system that we can face the future of this country. Otherwise, it is good that our so-called Commissioner on cutting spending takes the return ticket (which perhaps in this period costs less) to New York, because if we do not destinate the resources we save decisively to free the country's energies we will not be able to put this system on track. We have great confidence in the capacity of the President-in-Office of the Council and in the holding of the majority in the near future, and we would like everything to be foiled, with respect to the more or less occult attempts to put the majority in difficulty. But this majority will stand up if it can find the strong reasons for being together and if it opens up a debate with minorities, including institutional reforms, which are fundamental. There cannot be at all times, on the one hand, variable majorities with which important steps are deleted already approved from the point of view of economic reforms and, on the other hand, majorities that try to change this country in depth, precisely because we are willing to change it deeply. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u55	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we Socialists in the Autonomous Group are aware that the Government's task is difficult and we want to help simplify, and not make it more difficult, its navigation. Therefore, we confirm the loyal support to President Letta and his Government and we confirm and support with equal conviction the role of guarantee and balance of President Napolitano, who in these days is subjected to unjustified attacks that we reject at the origin. Senator colleagues, the PD secretary, Renzi, says: "Politics set a good example." Well, ladies and gentlemen, I want to speak today simply on a point which concerns us directly and on which we must set a good example. The story of the last few days shows a certain fibrillation in which an unresolved issue is also raised: the administrative structure of the constitutional bodies. In the context of the public administrations included in the consolidated profit and loss account, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic are the only ones, among the constitutional or constitutional bodies, in which the ordinary endowment of the Erario is used for the treatment of staff in quiescence. Already several times in this House, in the past legislation, it has been noted that the net separation between the ordinary management of current expenditure and the management of social security expenditure is an acquired achievement of each public administration, falling within the framework of the territorial body State, which confers the expenditure from special social security institutions with which the individual administrations maintain relations governed by the general rules of the employer's contributions. I do not know whether the specific nature of the constitutional or constitutional bodies justifies their separate treatment from the general pension, but I know for a fact that it is absolutely unjustified that they produce different treatments and niche regulations between them. Paragraph 487 of Article 1 of this bill of stability maintains this misunderstanding by calling the Chambers to decide, in their autonomy, on whether and how to conform to the principles of the contribution of solidarity imposed on all citizens. On the other hand, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it must be clear that the form in the exercise of its autonomy, which refers to administrative acts of management of the chamber service, is inappropriate because it unduly subtracts the public employment relationship with the constitutional bodies from ordinary law and renders rules of principle those which are directly applicable to the rest of the public administration. Once and for all, it must be made clear that these pension rules are directly incorporated into the general system, without the need for transposition acts, avoiding the danger of them being incomplete or partial. The argument that such transposition acts would be necessary corresponds to a conception of the self-declaration of the constitutional bodies passed and subject to constitutional censorship by the United and Civil Chambers of the Court of Cassation by order 10400 of 2013. Colleagues, the 5 Star Movement's scoop on the amendment of 10 December 2013, proposed to the House by Congressman Hope, opens an even more worrying gap: there would have been a lobbying activity to raise the ceiling of pension-retribution pools from 150,000 to 300,000 euros. It is clear that these differentiated pension managements not only do not trigger virtuous mechanisms, but they have pernicious effects on the level of general legislation. In order to save these isolated cases, the regulatory forecasts valid for all citizens are watered down, as well as increasing discredit on the institutions. The case is a spy of a more general reflex mechanism according to which the constitutional bodies would not apply the law in force for all other administrations, as the secretary Bernardini of the Italian Radical Party has declared today with reference to the theme of gold rents, another issue on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. If the Presidency does not immediately cancel its much discussed property contracts, it is only because it wants to remain consistent with the mythology of the autodichia, which led it to stand trial against the Court of Cassation in the judgment to be decided on 11 March next by the Constitutional Court. Instead of continuing to send contradictory inputs to the Government, the Chambers apply directly Article 3 of the Monti Decree, which gives the right to withdraw to all administrations included in the ISTAT list. (Senator Puglia puts a sign on the laptop screen with the words: You return, too. If we can do it, you can do it too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me for interrupting, Senator Buemi. Senator Puglia, I would invite you to remove that sign. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). More generally, I would ask colleagues to add... (Senator Puglia asks to intervene.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, there's no intervention. I invite you to remove that sign again. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I was saying, I would ask my fellow Members to add the signature to the bill No 1175 tabled by the Socialist Senators, which I wonder, Madam President, because it has not been published on the Senate website even today, after more than 40 days. We Socialists, colleagues, do not bear responsibilities in the management of the Senate. You are, trigger senators, with your commissioner. You do, President Grasso. We are not sharing your demagogy in the media and in the squares and your conservatism in this House. Put our bill No. 1175 on the agenda and let's set a good example, fellow Senators of the PD! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. (Senator Puglia asks to intervene.) Senator Puglia, we are in general discussion, with very tight times; so I cannot give you the floor. Please, Senator De Pin.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u57	Madam President, there are many particular reasons for criticising the stability law that will be passed in the Senate today. The cuts in social spending have been too large and too limited savings have been made, where it would have been possible to make them, i.e. from military expenditure and unnecessary great works; too pervasive the influence of the lobby, which have managed to safeguard some corporate interests, in countertrend with the rest of the country forced to a harsh austerity; too scarce, finally, the aid for productive activities, research and school. In all these fields more and better should have been done. However, it is difficult to escape the impression that, even if this had happened, the situation would not have changed much. With current European constraints, no expansionary policy - the only one needed in times of crisis - can be implemented. The Government, whatever it may be, is thus forced to scrape the bottom of the barrel. Unfortunately, in the absence of a correction of European budgetary policies, this situation will also occur in the coming years. Of all this, at least at the theoretical and cultural level, there is full awareness. On yesterday's day alone the articles by Bruno Amoroso, Pier Giorgio Gawronsky and Romano Prodi appeared in the daily press, very different authors, but they converge, in their analyses, at least to one point: the economic policy that Germany is imposing on Europe is catastrophic. Also on yesterday's day appeared the manifesto for Europe, signed, among others, by Luciano Canfora, Salvatore Settis, Stefano Rodotà, Marcello De Cecco. (Some Senators of the M5S Group display, by placing them on the screen of laptops, signs [[with the words: "Return also you. If we can do it, so can you. Senator Buemi draws the Presidency's attention.]] I would like to quote this passage from this document, which seems to me to be very significant: "Conceived in the sign of hope... BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). President!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u58	I saw. I was trying not to interrupt the discussion. I'd invite the senator. Questing to behave as it should and I would ask colleagues in the 5 Star Movement to remove those cartels, otherwise they will have to intervene, after the secretary senators have indicated, parliamentary assistants to remove them, perhaps even by seizing computers, which I do not think is useful for your work. (Senator Puglia asks to intervene.) There is no discussion on this issue. [[Senator Puglia makes the sign of money, rubbing index finger and thumb of the left hand. Comments from the PD Group. Protests of Senators Caleo and Fornaro]] Senator Puglia! I call on the Secretary Senators to bring in parliamentary assistants to remove cartels and laptops, if necessary. (Parliamentary assistants remove some signs.) There's two more. I would ask you to do so in order to avoid interrupting the speaker who is having difficulty making his speech. (Exchange of jokes between Senators Buemi and Bottici). Senator Bottici, please, you're a commissioner of the Senate, act accordingly. Senator De Pin, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u59	Also on yesterday's day appeared the "Manifesto for Europe," signed, among others, by Luciano Canfora, Salvatore Settis, Stefano Rodotà and Marcello De Cecco. [[Comments of the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u60	I would ask you to allow Senator De Pin to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u61	DE PIN (Misto-GAPp). I would like to mention one step in this document, which seems to me to be very significant. Conceived in the sign of hope, the united Europe, the arbitrator of the continental political scene, is today, in the eyes of the most, a hostile and threatening power. And democracy itself risks appearing to be a mere simulacrum or, worse, a dangerous deception. Why? Is the crisis, as usual, the immediate cause of this state of affairs or to determine it are the budgetary policies that, on the indication of the European institutions, the countries of the eurozone apply to deal with it, in compliance with the neoliberal principles? We believe that the latter is the truth. We are convinced that the economic policy recipes adopted by the European governments, far from combating the crisis and promoting recovery, strengthen the causes of the first and prevent the second. Here then is the main defect of the law of stability. It embraces the constraints that are deserting the productive capacities of our country and that risk, in the long term, deflagrating the European Union itself, creating unsustainable disparities between the growth and the trade balance of Germany and that of the other countries of the Eurozone (not only the so-called PIGS, but also France and the Netherlands). Irresponsible ruling classes are creating the conditions for a neo-nationalist uprising, which would be an even worse remedy than the evil they want to cure. In this context, the perspective of our country appears, to a rational analysis, not very brilliant. To a left traditionally flattened, as in the rest of Europe, to the will of the financial powers, a new political movement is opposed that has only distinguished itself for the turbulent of its boss-master, whose demagogy has succeeded in the difficult task of discrediting otherwise sacring battles. [[Senator Bottici's laughter.]] All that remains is to appeal to the optimism of the will and to hope that the Italian people, together with the other peoples of Europe, will find in themselves the strength to impose an economic turning point towards a united, united and peaceful Europe. [[Applause from the Mixed Group-GAPp. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.Comments of Senators Bottici, De Pietro, Paglini and Taverna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u62	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u63	Mr President, I wanted to make my personal apologies to Senator Monti because I had repeatedly addressed him and his Government saying that the country could not have something worse than the Monti government or worse than what the Monti government was doing at that time. I was wrong: the worst is being demonstrated these days by the Letta Government and their companions. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] So, Senator Monti, excuse me. Anyway, Government Mountains and Government Letta are both children of the same genetic incest as regards politics. I mean that the Italians did not want them: they were born from a genetic incest, from small, large and medium understandings and are producing despair in the country. At least the Monti government had an image derived from its technical components that seemed to have great authority and could really give answers to the country. What we have seen these days in the Letta Government has upset us: the fact that it was the officials of the Ministries who wrote this bill of stability, and they also wrote it not bad, very bad, because worse than this had never been seen in Parliament's classrooms. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] My colleague, Mr Arrigoni, has said this before, that it has been scientific in exposing the list of marcettes, for over a billion euros: in short, it is a marc, as we have defined it. Under the Christmas tree, Italians will find three gifts: one is the law of stability, one is the decree of Rome-Save Law and the third is that of the Provinces. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It will not stop here, however, because we immediately tell the Italians that there will be the joke of Carnival (because after Carnival arrives), that will reserve to the Italians two things there is little to joke about: one is the indult and the other will be the law on ius soli [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This will be the Carnival joke and, since every joke is worth at Carnival, we will see what will happen to Parliament's classrooms. This measure, Ministers and members of the Government, is bad, insufficient, devoid of any strategic vision, of any project that can really give answers to the country. There are no answers to the disasters that I show 1 and Monster 2 have created in these years: the exodati and families of Italians on their knees [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Don't give any answers, don't give any answers. However, I believe that the worst thing we are witnessing in recent weeks, after the fine words of the President-in-Office of the Council, Letta, on 2 October, when he filled his mouth with words that he would go to Europe (maybe accompanied by Minister Kyenge and the Foreign Minister who was there before and now is gone), is the failure on the European line. This ostentatious authority is not there: there is no authority! You failed on every line! On immigration we gave advice to Minister Kyenge, who did not want to listen to us. We have given the Minister serious and sensible advice on what we believe he should do, without demagogy or leaving the seed, but he is doing exactly the opposite. It's a failure on the whole line, and not much of the PD is downloading it at all. I'm sorry for you, but it's a failure on the whole line. Among other things, Prime Minister Letta said that we would do something about the Stability Pact. Yes: Fried air in this case too. In Europe they give us their homework, and as waiters we go home. We took orders and we do absolutely nothing. However, the two monsters have one thing that unites them more and more, it is the rule of the three "t", i.e. taxes, taxes and more taxes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is the rule of the three "t" of the Monti government and the Letta government, which goes once again to tax the North as a priority, devulging to the South what perhaps is not the case to devolve in this way. Mr Minister, members of the Government, we also expected the long-awaited kidney strike for the Mezzogiorno, which, on the other hand, is to be held in a welfare system. Minister D'Alia has sold the extension of 24,000 Sicilian insecure as rationalization of expenses. I should like to conclude, Minister, by saying that the Monti Government used the words 'federalism' and'standard costs' sometimes, perhaps only on a case-by-case basis; you, in the worst tradition of the First Republic, have a short memory. And since you have a short memory, let me remind you that you are forgetting our maròs once again: to them and their families we wish them a Merry Christmas! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u64	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u65	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this is a failure. The law of stability, together with the budget law, constitutes the most important public finance maneuver for Italy, as it aims to plan and implement the economic objectives and development of the country. I repeat, this maneuver is a failure. Today the government calls for confidence in a law that promises, in the best hopes, a GDP growth of 1%, totally insufficient growth in a context in which other countries such as Spain, Sweden, Portugal, through more courageous and reformist choices, are recovering the gap of the economic crisis. With this law of stability - with once again recourse to the expedient of trust - you fall into ridicule. This law does not solve the real problems of the country and leaves Italy behind in the European economy, as well as in the position of a poor consumer colony in the global market. I would like to point out a few points in future, since you have the numbers of arrogance. As far as agriculture is concerned, it is absurd to foresee the burden of the list of customers and suppliers, the so-called spending meter for small farmers, those that do not exceed 7,000 euros of sales per year. It is superfluous, unfair and, instead of simplifying work, it will produce new red tape and new costs for a job that is already quite at risk. You have also planned a measure "Save SIAE" with the increased costs of personal computers, USB flash drives, tablets, smartphones, mobile phones and DVDs, through a tax that will hit the storage of data and that will be allocated to the compensation of the owners of the rights of exploitation of audiovisual works. On the phones of the Italians, in which only - and, I repeat, only - the telephone numbers of friends and family, will fall however the unjust choice of this Government, with a tax that will guarantee SIAE an income between 165 and 200 million euros, compared to the only 72 million euros of the last year. The truth is that you want to keep up an old and gangstered wheelchair, like SIAE, and don't hesitate to hit the citizens once again, who are already at the gas barrel. Then there is the theme of lobbying. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. WOMAN (M5S). To this Government, Madam President, it must be recognized the merit of having shown its structure, made up of lobbyists, strong powers, financial entanglements, which gradually emerge from the Palaces thanks only to the 5 Star Movement. Outside, in the real world, there is so much despair and, in some cases, understandable anger. This government has not served the country well, blackmailed by parties and a gentleman who, on the evening of December 31, wants to speak to unified networks. The Italians won't listen to him this time: they will turn off the television. He'll talk to himself and his people. We, free citizens, will not be there. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u66	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u67	Madam President, since I am the last speaker, many of the critical remarks that will be the subject of my remarks have been put forward, with very convincing arguments, by my previous colleagues. I would say, however, that there is one issue, in particular, that must be the beginning and the end of criticism, the beginning and the end of the missed and unsuccessful objectives that this Government has given itself, with unfulfilled promises. A government that respects itself, Mr President, Minister for relations with Parliament, Mr Franceschini, must not only be stable. You shouldn't just float. It must give answers and certainty to citizens and certainties must be continuous, they must correspond to the problems and difficulties that arise in this society, in this country and in this increasingly complex world. And these certainties, President, must give to families and businesses a Government that believes in itself and strongly believes in doing the good of the country that serves. It must give them to enable families and businesses to plan their exits, plan investments, assess costs and savings. In a word, Minister, a government must be able to explain to its citizens not only what taxes are and why they are paid, but above all how much they will have to pay for taxes. On the real estate sector, businesses and families still have no certainty: I am not just referring to the infamous (and please put it in quotes) first house, but I am referring to the shops, the premises where small and medium-sized enterprises, crafts and commerce operate; I am referring to the industrial sheds, which are the houses of businesses; I am referring to the building land where property taxes are paid before the buildings are built there. All the more so (also mentioned by my previous colleague), if other European countries, our partners even weaker, more fragile, to the most disused, complicated economies or perhaps to economies once compared to our emerging ones, now emerge more than we do; despite perhaps tears and blood recipes imposed by European troikes now emerge more than we do. Italy is the country that paradoxically in Europe now, despite some statements of absolutely excessive triumphalism by not only our Minister of the Economy, but unfortunately also by our President of the Council, is giving the worst proof of itself. And it is no coincidence that this stability package, if this budget table that we are called to vote on in a few, very few hours, continues to please no one: not small, medium and large enterprises, not Confindustria, not trade unions, not municipalities, not traders and craftsmen, not young people, not precarious people, not pensioners, not owners and tenants of houses, not VAT matches and investors, not families with children, not that social block on which the future of our economy depends, and on which instead this Government demands, indeed imposes, endless sacrifices: the middle class. Nobody likes it. With this bill of stability the Government has finally put itself at the opposition of the country, failing those commitments on which it was born, in the name of the word "growth" and of a reversal of course in Italy and Europe against austerity policies. A government that should represent a state that should be at the service of citizens, but which instead requires citizens to be at the service of the state. And to the damage, Mr President, the mockery has also been added. On the eve of this debate and of our votes, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Saccomanni, certainly not here, in his right place (among other things he is not even present today), but in a well-known television box on Sunday, anticipated the conclusion of the parliamentary process of the stability-budget package, defending the indefensible, supporting the unsustainable: that IMU will no longer be paid when it is clear to all that not only will they pay a share of it even those who until yesterday did not pay it, that is to say the weakest, but next year the IMU, TASI, TARI, TARES, IUC, in short, the florilegio scioglilingua dell'impositione fiscale sugli immobili will be so much heavier and more burdensome for the country. Only the name has changed! The weight has not changed and the burden has not changed. We Members of Forza Italia are proud to have given battle to keep the promise to reduce the tax burden on property, on self-employed and dependent work, on families; the battle to abolish the IMU on the first house, however you want to call it, and above all to cut the bad public spending. We are proud to have come out of the majority so that we do not get our hands dirty against the national economy, against Italian families and companies. We have said this: it is a disaster that is being perpetrated by this law of stability. Minister Saccomanni also ventured to say that at the end of next year we will all sing the hymn to Joy, adding "spiritally" - I recommend: in this case too we put the word "spiritly" in quotes - that the hymn to Joy is also the hymn of Europe. It is that Europe - it has been said on several occasions in the speeches that preceded my own - to which he himself has spent his time in praise, exulting for an agreement on the banking union, which the most experienced observers - Italians and foreigners - regard as yet another debacle, a lost opportunity to be truly united in responsibility, a genuflesion to the diktats of Germany and Northern Europe. An ineffective banking union and a very generous fiscal union, which remove the real problem of political union, which once again make the constraints prevail over growth and which establish the deficit of a necessary risk-sharing. A mocking propaganda for success. We, President Letta, regard him as an alien to the problems and needs of the country. Not only did he wrap himself in a series of technical messes, but he used them to play the game of the three cards. With the liar illusion of reducing the tax burden, he overwhelmed the Italians with a flood of new names for old taxes, with a fair of ads and then retromarce. (15:17) (Bernini followed) And while you ask the Italians already milked and tartassati from the IRS to tighten even more the belt, you announced with the grancassa a spending review that you have then weakened, assigning the future savings to cover other current expenses. You have included micro-sectoral interventions, which have also been mentioned today - Calabria has been mentioned, but others could also be mentioned - and lobbying amendments. You have been able to finance a number of unlikely institutions and activities, while you have eased the purchasing power of pensions. In short, you helped us - as Senator Bonfrisco reminded us before me - to the usual Suk from First Republic, with the welcome blessing of the new Secretary of the Democratic Party, whose desires for destruction have already been broken against the party of taxes and public spending. You have introduced safeguard clauses on the "nothing" of a revision of expenditure, which will never end with you, which may not even begin, and which will not have any effect and safeguard clauses on the "nothing" of an already insufficient fight against tax evasion: it has been shown, again this year, that too many taxes lead to a reduction, certainly not an increase, of tax revenue. I mean, you got it all wrong. You have not done rigour, and you have certainly not grown. But then - the question arises legitimate, as well as spontaneous - what have you done? From the unwittingly-intentioned widths, you've moved on to the very small understandings... intended only to defend privileges and interests, in a scenario of progressive political and legal delegitimacy (we all remember the disruptive effect of the Constitutional Court's ruling). Your results are before everyone's eyes, despite the disturbing, sudden lines of spirit of the poor minister Saccomani. The Italians certainly liked jokes yesterday afternoon, as much as they will like, from now on, this law of establishment that you (not us) are preparing to approve. The good shepherd, Svetonius wrote, must shear the sheep, not peel them. Here, the middle class is being cut off in a scientific way, with a suicidal approach to our economy, because only from the middle class can the revival of consumption, productivity and employment come. In conclusion, Mr Franceschini, ladies and gentlemen, we will not be complicit in this law of establishment. The Italians would have needed and need anything else: a strong, authoritative political government, with full democratic legitimacy, able to make Italy's voice heard in Europe and to defend national interest in the framework of a Europeanism not of facade, but of substance. A government that cannot be the result of small egoisms, of internal equilibriums, of a pure numerical sum of parliamentary seats that do not reflect and no longer represent the country. It is for all these reasons that Forza Italia will vote firmly against this measure, because voting no to a Government that has put itself against the country is an act of love towards Italy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u68	The joint general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u69	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 1120-B, Senator Santini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u70	Mr President, I would also like to speak briefly on behalf of Senator D'Ali to respond to the many Members who have participated in the debate and, above all, to represent in some way that the speeches made, mostly strongly marked by very harsh criticism of the stability law, have - in our opinion - ignored some objective data that the law under consideration entails and that we would like to briefly resume. Unquestionably with this law of stability, a reduction in the tax burden begins in Italy after many years. Of course, it is not to the extent that we could hope for and that it would fill the serious inconvenience that families, communities and businesses are experiencing. However, it is indisputable and objective that there is a reduction in the tax burden and therefore, in this sense, the law of stability reverses a trend that we have now consolidated in recent years, which went exactly in the opposite direction, both with the linear cuts and with the increase of taxation. Secondly, I would like to stress, always objectively, that in this law of stability there are important social interventions that go to heal, or to help heal, the very strong social wounds that still go through the reality of our country. It has been mentioned in several interventions, almost in negative terms and with some contemptuous hints, but I believe it is a merit, as well as a necessity, to allocate more than EUR 1 700 million for social shock absorbers, for solidarity contracts, for all those interventions that will give an income to those who unfortunately in 2014 will continue not to work. Of course, this income must be accompanied by relocation policies, re-employment policies, but it is important to guarantee it. Similarly, it was neglected in the debate that, with an intervention made to the Senate, first, and then to the House, the interventions were almost definitively concluded to safeguard the so-called exodus, that is those thousands of people who unfortunately remained without work and without the possibility of access to the pension. These are concrete facts contained in the law of stability. Finally (unfortunately, hardly anyone talks about it, but it is an objective fact of the law of stability) important interventions have been planned to restart the investment mechanism both by activating the direct ones from the State - as we also recalled in the report, at the beginning of the debate - both by establishing an indirect mechanism in Italy, through the Cassa depositi e loani, through forms of securitisation, to make sure that they resume investments in Italy and above all resume the credit that, as we know, is blocked by the spiral of the difficult national and international financial situation. These are also facts that - in our opinion - give the overall possibility to affirm that it is certainly a law of stability not yet in progress - as would be necessary, given the seriousness of the crisis - but certainly of change of trend, which starts the country on a path that will not be short to resume to grow and give answers to families, businesses and communities. [[Applause from the PD Group and the senators Azzollini and Marino Luigi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u71	As the Government representative does not intend to intervene, the rapporteur's reply concluded the joint discussion of the measures on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u72	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill No 1120-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr Franceschini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u73	Mr President, not only reasons related to the timetable, but also questions of merit push the Government, which also strongly supports and supports the establishment of the stability law as correct in the course of the parliamentary work carried out by the two branches of Parliament, to put the question of trust in the bill of stability. During the debate, a number of comments were made on matters which could be considered to be additional to the establishment of the stability bill. The debate was also held yesterday in the Chamber of Deputies during the debate on the bill to convert a decree-law. I believe that the problem is real and that in a self-critical way the Government and the two branches of Parliament must pose a problem, to be addressed before the adoption of the measures, which concerns the requirements of homogeneity and urgency of the decree-laws, which according to the Constitutional Court apply not only to the decree-law but also to the law of conversion, also with reference to Article 11 of Law No 196 of 2009 establishing the law of stability. These are issues that we will have to deal with, but which do not affect the law of stability that - I repeat - the Government strongly supports also and especially in the text modified by the two Chambers. For these reasons, on behalf of the Government, I put the question of trust in the adoption, without amendments and additional articles, of the single article of bill No 1120-B (Stability Act 2014), in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. (The Senators of the M5S Group display signs with the words: You return, too. If we can do it, so can you. [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u74	I'm begging the quaestors senators and the parent company to get active. Senator Bottici... We've seen them before! Lower those signs. The Presidency notes that the issue of trust is ascribed to the adoption of the single article of bill No 1120-B (Stability Act 2014), in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore call on the Conference of Group Presidents to organise the debate. The sitting shall be suspended until the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 3.36 p.m. and resumed at 15.55 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders organised the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of stability, in the text approved by the House of Deputies. We will proceed directly to the explanations of vote, which will be followed by the call. The Conference of the Leaders also established that on Saturday 28 December, starting at 11 a.m., the Assembly will examine at third reading the decree-law concerning financial measures for regions and local authorities, already approved by the Senate. For the discussion of the measure, the timing was divided between the groups for about three hours. The other topics set out in the schedule of proceedings remain confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u78	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask whether it is possible to proceed before the explanations of vote to the draw of the letter from which you will begin to call you.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u79	Senator Cotti, you may not have sensed that after you call, there will be another vote on the budget. So the letter from which he starts the call is absolutely irrelevant to the fact that he can book the plane. You have to wait for the last vote. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u80	We shall now proceed to the vote on the single article of draft law No 1120-B, in the text approved by the House of Deputies, on which the Government has raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u83	GIANNI (SPI). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Citizens' Choice will vote for the confidence placed on the law of stability, because it is primarily inspired by that sense of responsibility towards the country and loyalty towards the majority, which has characterized our political action so far, even in the most delicate and critical passages, such as this. But there is no political conviction in this vote. There is no political conviction because, if we had already said and stressed, at first reading, how inadequate this law of stability was with regard to the problems of the country, today we welcome from the Chamber of Deputies a timid text towards change, but very tenacious in the maintenance of privileges and ancient structural ills. There is a hint of a reversal of the march, which concerns the tax burden on workers and businesses, but there is no strategic turning point: there is not that strategic turning point for which we of Civic Choice had wanted and supported with much political conviction the broad understandings. There is no attack on public expenditure, on the causes that have generated it for decades, and no push on those reforms that are essential to restart the economy and create growth and development, i.e. labour market interventions, liberalisations and public administration. But let me add that there is also no courage in making organic investments on the future of a European Italy, on research, on education and on culture. In this situation of incredible legislative confusion, we are helpless in a legislative path made also of wrong decrees, corrective decrees that overlap with other decrees and with the law of stability. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to us that the Government is in difficulty, both in Parliament and in the management and leadership of its majority, and we see it at the mercy of political waves determined above all by the extra-parliamentary interventions of the new secretary of the majority party, the Democratic Party, which impose abrupt and sudden turns and which increasingly determine what are called variable majorities. List the most striking cases that have so passionate about the press in recent days: the slot machines, the worsening in the decree-law saveRoma, the rules on public rents, the political domination of the union in the restructuring processes of the participating companies. These norms have been approved - these yes - by a majority ranging from the Democratic Party, to the 5 Star Movement in SEL; so it comes to say that it won the new, indeed it has overwhelmed the new, but the line is still quite old. The text that the House has postponed fully and eloquently reflects this state of affairs. I am referring to the stabilisation of the staff of all public companies in the State and local authorities, the recruitment of forestry workers, the stabilisation of socially useful workers, which combines a true dust of rules that respond to other microscopic interests (and, if I recall correctly, the State's accounting law expressly prohibits this type of intervention from being included in the law of stability, and also in the Commissions this figure has emerged clearly). The European Italy that we think about and for which we are fighting, in the seats of Parliament and outside, should hand over another law to Brussels: a law from which it is clear that the accounts are getting square, but no longer imposing taxes because the political system is incapable of attacking the structural mechanisms of spending and is not able to raise the objective low quality of public services and public administration, the two levers fundamental to development and growth. Civic Choice was born for this purpose, has this political mission and wants to carry out structural reforms for a competitive Italy. So the alibi is not enough for us to have destined a crumb (this is in the comparison of the total figures) of 10 million euros to the experimentation of the contract of relocation, and not enough for us to cancel, above all, the reintegration of the norm on the staff of public societies: an unfair and exceptional norm, but above all that it constitutes a real time bomb for the financial balances of the State at all levels of government. That is, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when thousands of workers lose their jobs, thousands of young people do not find jobs, thousands of unemployed people abandon themselves to the state of despair that sometimes produces the deplorable demonstrations - in some ways - that we have witnessed, in this condition only those who are protected by politics seem to be able to make it, and we cannot accept this line. These rules had been clearly removed from the decree on public administration - the so-called D'Alia decree - on the basis of a transparent majority agreement, clear, and were then reinstated. This is an unacceptable wound for our Group, on the substance and method. Let this, then, be our last appeal to the Government for these norms to be removed tomorrow from the thousand-pronge decree; otherwise, we will note that the strategic turning point is not there, that the political will to arrive at development and growth and to a European Italy is not there, so we will draw the consequences due, without surrendering and without arresting ourselves in the political and legislative battle for which we entered into Italian politics. [[Applause from the SCPI groups and Senator Santini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u86	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we spoke ten days ago about the law of stability, in the presence of President Letta, so we can only point out in broad outline what we have already said at the time. However, it certainly contributes to a minimum of lightness of the political panorama the intervention of my colleague Giannini, who just now, saying plague and horns of this measure, has launched a kind of "penultatum" to the Letta Government (if I have understood correctly), as if the Civic Chosen Group should neither want to give him confidence next time. What to say? We continue to believe that the present government stands in the dark. First of all, I would like to remind you that, at the first reading of the measure, we asked the President of the Letta Council what kind of government he presided over: whether this measure went in the direction of the magnificent and progressive fates of socialism, or rather in the direction of a liberal reform of the state; whether he was socialist, liberal or social-democratic; whether he was inspired by the value horizon of the idea of the State and of society that these different forms of political, social and economic thought impose, or went on in small steps, with the so-called policy of warm cloths. In fact, the revisitation of the law of stability does not change by a millimetre the ambiguities, approximation and improvisation that this measure contains with respect to the social ferments, to the youth protest, to the protest of the categories grouped under the name of "Forconi". The bill under discussion, therefore, does not transpose and grasp the urgency and gravity of the moment, leaving things essentially as they were. There is a small increase in taxes, disguised under acronyms different from the previous ones. There is an aleatority of revenue: it seems, in fact, that the constitutive and supporting element of the 13-14 billion incoming is to future memory for the alienation of state property, even if in this provision it is not expected then a sanatoria even for the artifacts and for what has been realized in the state property areas. Unfortunately, I must reiterate what Mr Milo said earlier during the general debate on the budget law, referring to the stabilisation of hundreds and hundreds of forests in Calabria and Sicily. I believe that, if the Public Prosecutor of Naples was so interested in the passage of Senator De Gregorio from Italy of the Values to the party of Silvio Berlusconi, here there would be to engage the entire Public Prosecutor. In fact, it happens that stabilisation concerns Calabria and Sicily, which have generously contributed to the passage of parliamentarians from the People of Freedom to the ranks of the New Right Centre that supports this Government. However, you know that the left is always elegant. There will be a scouting operation, there will be a stabilisation operation, and what else has the left done over time if not hide behind the needs of the workers? I think that's the political meaning. So no one crooks their noses; there will be no Santoro and there will be no judge journalists who will look within this phenomenon, which, among other things, is paid not with the money of a private, but with the money of the state, because they will cost tens and tens of millions of euros these brands and these favors to stimulate that part of center-right that still supports the government today. What, then, about the fact that this provision does not say a word on two essential issues such as justice and health? No one seems to be concerned with justice, except to please the President of the Republic: I am referring to measures that would release about 1,700 rei confessi in order to disingolfate Italian prisons (but we do not take into account the 26,000 prisoners pending trial, more than half of whom will then be acquitted in the subsequent degrees of judgment). Not a word about health, which represents, after the public employment and the Armed Forces, the third chapter of spending: a health that everyone reform, to which everyone turns their thoughts, but that continues not to be enough now something like 120 billion euros. So, as well as in public employment, transport and everything that this clearly socialist, cryptosocialist or statist state does in every area it manages, making craps of the public money, this government does not worry and speaks of standard costs to vain. It would be enough, Mr Franceschini, to approve or transpose my proposal for a law: to pay DRG, then at a rate, the public and the private, even at different rates when there are emergencies or emergencies: for example, by paying a blood sugar test one euro here and one euro there, because we would force all health professionals to state management to account for efficiency and economics; we would reward those who offer more complex performances and we would not finance the political carriages that health companies are full of. It doesn't take a Copernican revolution, but a parification, because this is a government that renounces competition (cum petere doesn't just mean asking together, but also looking together). What system can work today without competition, without the State taking on a role of third-partyness among competitors, without anyone taking into account what it does, how much it does and how much it costs? And you're joking to call yourselves the Government of the epochal turning point because you're 40 and not 70? But it is your policy that is seventy years old! It is the politics of the laissez faire in the state and of donating everything that is not state. It is politics that fights those who produce wealth, in order to be able to redistribute, we still do not know what, seen and considered that in Italy to produce wealth no one thinks about it anymore. What do you want to redistribute? Poverty and misery? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator D'Anna. D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, that is what I wanted to say to the Government. Therefore, the members of the LAG Group, in their autonomy as members of a mixed group, will assume the attitude that individual senators will want. As for me and those who think like me, we cannot, we must not and we do not want to give you our trust. [[Applause from the groups]] LAG and FI-PdL XVII).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u89	MARINO Luigi (PI). Mr President, Ministers, the Per l'Italia Group will vote for the government's confidence in the stability law, and it will do so despite the fact that the House of Deputies has introduced 218 amendments, which means 218 new paragraphs, and has amended another hundred, not a few of which, in turn, had been amended in the Senate. We are not with one foot in and one foot out of the majority: we are loyal to this Government, and we are loyal because we believe that this Government - Letta 2.0 - has the potential to contribute to institutional, constitutional and electoral reforms and to give life to economic recovery. We will vote for the vote of confidence because we are convinced of the establishment of this law of stability and, above all, because the balances remain essentially unchanged. However, this does not prevent us - as we did a few days ago, with regard to the decree-law on local authorities, the decree saves Rome - from saying ours on some fundamental points, urging the Government to take note of it, because this law of stability was preceded and followed by a controversy, especially of the social partners, and then of course of oppositions, old and new, supported by the independent press - or so-called independent - on the issue of the tax wedge. That is, there has been a controversy about the ineffectiveness of this measure for growth. If we were not in the presence of the continuing economic depression, agitation would be part of the canons of Italian tradition. In my memory there was no financial law that has not renewed this theatrical game of the parties, between government, majority, opposition, social partners and information. It is in the faculties of everyone to raise the bar of demands and at the same time to lower that of irresponsibility. However, in this way the large mass of debt becomes an independent variable, depending on where you stand in Parliament, whether in opposition or in majority. While in a family or enterprise debts are paid or failed, for those who do not have direct government responsibilities, this rule, applied to States, is an optional one. In unsuspecting times, we argued that one of the cornerstones of government action should be the lowering of taxation on people and businesses, and we put this before everything. In other words, we have argued that, above all, corporate taxes - which produce the wealth needed for this country, in order to increase income and be able to distribute it more fairly, which generate employment, which allow a country to grow and look with confidence to the future - and taxes on people should decrease. We called for all possible resources to be concentrated on the tax wedge, blocking rainy appropriations, corporate measures, clientele, so-called tip rules. This nagging relationship between debt and product will fall to a robust extent, mainly by supporting the denominator, i.e. by supporting growth. On the other hand, we see Japan, which has a relationship almost twice as much as we think and hopes for the future with a focus on growth. Virtuous growth is the result of the increased competitiveness of our companies. We, before the Civic Choice Group and today of the Group For Italy, we have then consistently supported this line. On the contrary, there were those who instead nailed the Government and the majority on the abolition of the IMU: only the abolition of the September and December instalments of the IMU cost public finances 4 billion, with the search for tiring cover and with safeguard clauses and paradoxical increases of tax advances. There are those who think that our public finances can bear everything at the same time: the abolition of the IMU, the non-increase of VAT, the lowering of the tax burden on companies, fairness, and further this step. I want to remind you that as you bang with creative finance (think of the derivatives of local authorities), so you bang with creative coverage too. To cover all this the opposition, especially that of Forza Italia with Mr Brunetta, has always carried on creative covers, and now we see how precisely those covers in some episodes and in some cases (Bank of Italy and recovery of tax evasion) are difficult to achieve quickly. We cannot, then, fail to agree with President Letta's statement of common sense: growth, yes, but without the breakdown of public accounts, because public accounts in order means lower interest rates, more confidence on the part of markets and investors. While we appreciate the direction of travel - as I said before - and the approach, we have not failed to highlight our disappointment at the limited resources available to lower taxes on businesses and people. We have been proactive in strengthening the guarantee system of trust consortia, and little has been said about this in this debate, but this is part of the measure. We appreciated the announcement by the President of the Council of Automatism in the constitution of the fund cuts taxes. We have - I repeat - appreciated the automatism: so many resources enter with the spending review and with the fight against evasion, many come out to lower taxes. Automatism takes on a great commitment, a responsibility for this and for governments to come, for the growth of the country and the future of our nation. But in the text that comes from the House automatism is impalpable and comes after other needs have been covered. Given the vote of confidence, we then ask the Government to return to its initial approach, to review the way in which it operates, to make at least 75% of the resources automatic, the revenue that comes from the tax fund. I would also like to point out that we are always attentive to the criticisms of the social partners, who have warned the government about this. The two sides of industry must, however, work towards fruitful agreements on productivity, on second-level wages, which lies, precisely for their own responsibilities, in a corner. We believe that the recovery of the country does not depend solely on the government. It does not depend on who works in this House and in the other House: it depends on a country's choral effort. In this effort, no one can escape their responsibilities, and the social partners, who systematically and punctually denounce the limitations of our action, must also take responsibility for their responsibilities. Finally, in the chapter "Removement of Memory" we have the talk on reforms. We believe that this speech must be exhausted in 2014 and we hope that it will be implemented as soon as possible to give a sign of trust in our electoral supporters, but I would like to say towards the whole country. In a ranking drawn up by a German university, which concerns sustainable debt, that is, the intersection between explicit debt (that is, of the 2,000 billion) and implicit debt, that is, the one that will come with the government actions that are being carried out in these years, Italy turns out to be by far the most virtuous country (the fourth is Germany, the sixteenth is France, the twenty-second Great Britain, and the United States are even further behind). This means that the sacrifices of today's Italians will be recognized in the medium and long term, that the reforms approved in recent times find a positive response, that there are expectations for the future, but above all that there are prospects for growth: an honest growth, because it will not be the result of bubbles and financial embellishment. It is with these additional considerations that we will loyally vote for trust in the Government. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Tonini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u92	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE voted for confidence in the Stability Act on 26 November 2013. Our positive opinion on the measure under consideration and on the Letta Government has not changed, partly because the establishment of the Stability Act has not undergone substantial changes during the discussion in the other branch of Parliament. In our view, we need a balanced and non-prejudice assessment of the government's action. That is why we do not believe that the chorus of criticism that has been raised from many quarters is justified. It is not time for a Santa Claus policy and this is a reality that must be taken into account. The President of the Council and his team worked effectively, despite political and parliamentary conditions, were objectively difficult in 2013. The government was therefore obliged to carry out a delicate assessment of the priorities of consolidation and of the budgetary balance to be safeguarded, but also of the necessary political support from the forces that support the government itself. The Letta government has done what it has been able to do, taking steps in the right direction, starting the path of reducing the tax wedge with the objective of significantly reducing taxes on labour in the medium term, a strategic objective to become competitive in Europe and in the world. In relation to the Special Statutes, the establishment of the bill of stability under consideration at the beginning presented various profiles of dubious constitutionality that we, as the Group for the Autonomies, have pointed out. During the examination by the Chambers the text was improved from that point of view, even if it was not possible to eliminate all the criticalities. The most important thing, however, is that we have succeeded, for the first time in recent years and after a long period of stalemate, to reverse the course and to give a concrete perspective of growth for the autonomous ones with the modifications of our Statute of autonomy in order to finance and local taxes and with the programmed transfer of some functions currently state with assumption of the relative financial burdens from the Region Valle d'Aosta and the autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. We are therefore convinced that the year 2014 will be the turning year that will allow Italy to emerge from the heaviest crisis of the post-war period and, at the same time, to the special autonomy to grow, while contributing to the consolidation of public finances. There is no doubt that these results can be achieved in a condition of constant collaboration and comparison between special autonomy and Government, which will allow the necessary agreements to be reached. We thank the President-in-Office of the Council, the ministers of Franceschini and Delrio for their constant attention to the reasons for our specialty and for their political sensitivity which we have always appreciated. In recent months we have achieved important objectives and we are particularly grateful for the appointment of the Trentino-Alto Adige-Südtirol Joint Committee and we hope that in a short time we will also be appointed for the Valle d'Aosta Vallée d'Aoste Region. For this reason, the Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE will vote for the trust of the Led Government. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Tonini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u95	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, as we have already announced in the passage of the measure at first reading, our vote is against, because we believe that once again the bill of stability does not fully fulfil its function, namely to outline a clear economic policy, a clear public fund management, a government of the public administrative apparatus at the various clear institutional levels. In essence, the bill of stability in the vote lacks exactly what was asked, that is, a response to the crisis of the country: a deep crisis, economically of absolute importance and also profoundly important in terms of institutional structure. This is one of the main elements that helps to give uncertainty and to keep the economic system impaled; this is one of the main elements of the continuing gravity of the crisis. We would have expected - frankly - a very slender text, perhaps ten articles and not 749 paragraphs, each of which is like an article. We would have expected not to have to solve problems of ordinary administration in the bill of stability. Mr President, you have spent a lot of time in the administration of justice, and I wonder whether, in order to reactivate a couple of premises in the flood-hit area, where judicial functions must be carried out, as regards both civil and criminal litigation, it is necessary to make a rule authorising the Minister to authorize the use of those premises that had once been left. I wonder whether it is not possible to do this with a ministerial circular or with the measure of a Director-General. Is it necessary to make a rule in the law of stability? I think not and I think there is no need to write in any other law that this should not be done in the law of stability. On the contrary, I believe that in other laws (in accounting, for example) we have written things other than those that are followed in drafting this comprehensive legislative document. Ladies and gentlemen, the latter follows other extensive legislative documents, which are born as decrees of the Government, which are discussed, and also haunted by the two Chambers: each representative of each part of politics with his own question (often questions that are not even relevant to the topics covered by the same decree). Then we arrive at the time of having to trust a document that should never have been in this configuration, that does not clearly trace any political line, which also prevents those who vote the confidence to fully share the text that must vote, that is even the subject of criticism from the parties that support the Government; criticism not of little account, but decisive criticism. Very strong terms are used on the content of some provisions of this and other provisions that are examined by the Senate and the House. I think that we should make a first reform, which concerns us directly, each of us in our role: the government should avoid issuing a decree a day, it should begin to use all the powers it has at its disposal by committing all the branches of public administration to do the same, it should allow Parliament - and Parliament should allow this - to carry out a serious examination of the measures, because we do not do it seriously: in one day we had to examine 400 additional and different rules with the idea that it was not even useful to do it, because in the meantime we already knew that trust would be placed. Then we have to stop with the rites, which force everyone to do fake things. On the contrary, we must all do true things and respond truly to the function we are called to exercise. It is necessary to say less fanciful about the content of the provisions that are being discussed, that the real interests that are intended to represent when writing one arrangement in one way rather than another are less hidden: that is, to be more honest overall. I believe that the real reason that we will not vote for this measure and we will not vote for the government's confidence is that the expectation is in fact systematically postponed: I do not mean betrayed, but it is systematically postponed, and it is not even tolerable. And I say to the new oppositions, to those that never were, that for years they ruled this country and realized the other day that nothing worked, that their position is unbelievable. Even less credible is the position of those who, being within the Government, teach on how to manage the state treasury, after having had the responsibility several times and systematically. Therefore, we do not vote for confidence precisely because we think that there is still a postponement and if President Letta intends to start marching more directly towards the objectives that have been asked for, and that he too wanted to declare in this Chamber and in the Chamber Chamber, it is good that he does not send back any more, because the bad moods that already occur in his majority are couple with the bad moods that are being solicited in the country, sometimes even in a dangerous way, and make this state weak. And the weakness of the state means leaving the citizen at the mercy of himself, not protecting him and not guaranteeing him. We are in favour of a serious democratic order, always and in any case exercised and guaranteed. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u98	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with today's confidence, the infernal roller coaster ride of the 2014 Stability Act ends here in the Senate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Started a few months ago, in the Senate, the text was enriched by new provisions introduced by this Executive during the examination in the parliamentary committees, perhaps at unexpected times or after river sessions, when the attention has dropped and the newspapers have already closed and taxpayers are already enjoying the well-deserved rest, after a day's work. And it is a pity that citizens cannot know in depth the scope and value of this law: financial for the next three years. In this text, really, as Prime Minister Letta said, the government has done so much for everyone. Speaking of friends, therefore, since you have given yourself to the right and left, you must have many friends between Campania, Sicily and Calabria. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On the other hand, can you explain why you give 125 million for the socially useful works of Naples, Palermo and Calabria? We do not want to be curious, but we know, because the unemployed are also in the North, the only territory that we, unlike you, would be interested to know on the basis of what criterion you have allocated 125 million to friends of three regions and only one to those of all other regions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It will be our care, therefore, dear colleagues, to have all the companies and the fund-integrated companies of the North of which we know a copy of this measure, signaling your choice to prefer few to the detriment of many. On the subject of knowledge, we learn from the labyrinth of rules that for next year you have gathered the beauty of 3 million for the implementation of complementary initiatives necessary for the integration of immigrants. We are not exactly sure that our citizens - perhaps pensioners at 500 euros a month or exodus (maybe Mr Monti remembers this) - are aware of this kind homage to foreigners. Again, we'll remind him of it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We find it frankly a bit ridiculous in our political activity to hear in the big television broadcasts or on stage some of you here today call for policies against unemployment and for youth work and then see it vote in favour of laws that take away money from our fellow citizens. It is not difficult, ladies and gentlemen, to go outside the factories with the red flag, perhaps to express solidarity with the workers. The difficult thing, unfortunately, is to give them a perspective, perhaps better than what you have proposed so far. But above all it is difficult to think that the senators elected in Piedmont, Veneto, Lombardy, Liguria, Emilia and Tuscany can return to their colleges and be proud of the obscenities that are voting this month. I remember, for example, the obscenity of the decree saves Rome, which will force us to return after Christmas. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But we're here, happy to be there. In the face of these miraculous interventions, we really cannot comprehend the heavy criticisms that have been made by everyone for this law of stability, we cannot understand it. Confindustria, Municipalities, Trade Unions: it looks like the siege of Fort Alamo. Even your most trusted supporters are criticizing you. Yet, as we have pointed out, you have taken initiatives to relaunch work; take, for example, the fixed-term recruitment to strengthen the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the various Ministries: 120 new professional figures to repulse that public machine, which, in words, perhaps in television meetings, criticized because it is too numerous, slow and expensive [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Go tell your friend in Florence! The operation for which you put on the field only 11 million makes the pair with 4,5 million for the recruitment of the new staff for the Forest Body of the State. Also in this case we trust that it is not always for the usual places and that it is perhaps for those Regions that really have the forests and need of the forest; also because we know that in Calabria and Sicily, today as today, there are more forest than trees. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Luckily for you, my time is running out, so I'm forced to list, like the list of gifts in Santa's letter... (Senator Centinario stirs a Santa hat)... Unfortunately I do not have it green, but I caught it red because you are red, all the gifts that the North will be forced to make. A lot of gifts that will be given to the usual known: orchestra of the Mediterranean of San Carlo di Napoli for a million [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ; EUR SPA debts of EUR 100 million in Rome; EUR 25 million in the polluted areas of Brindisi (think of those in the North that are practically without "danè"); Institute for Historical and Philosophical Studies of Naples for 6 million [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ; Salerno-Reggio Calabria motorway, the endless road, for 340 million (I wonder if it is better to allocate money for Salerno-Reggio Calabria or for Turin-Lyon; I think for Turin-Lyon); various interventions in the Mezzogiorno for 150 million. (Senator Centinario still shakes Santa's hat) President. Senator Centinario, if you can avoid shaking that red cloth. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). It's not a drape: it's a Santa hat! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Anyway, I'm begging you not to upset him. Help me to keep the order in this House. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Assumption of new magistrates for 75 million; marine transport in the strait of Messina for 3 million; promotion of the restaurants of the South in the world 2 million [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia.]] processing of Sicilian citrus peels for 2 million. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are close to Christmas. Many Italian families, even in the North, prepare for the festivities with the hope and dreams of being able to review the recovery as soon as possible. That footage that you guys keep flagging, deceiving people like magic pied Pipers. The hope is that the next law of stability will not introduce a tax on dreams and hopes and not even on the tears of the poor people, now the only thing that you can still tax. We are tired of seeing billions of euros starting from the regions of the North to always end up in the usual places. We're tired of seeing unworthy administrators waste money with a smile on our lips because they're paying the North fools. We are tired of hearing about taxes on the house when we know very well that there are areas of South Italy totally abusive, without even the land register, with the result that the taxes always pay her the usual known. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We are tired of having to pay the television property tax (which you sneakyly call a canon), a tax that dates back to 1938 when there wasn't even television! We're sick of hearing that our elders are going to have a crappy Christmas while you throw away all this money. We are sick of hearing the "phenomenon" of Florence pontificate on how disgusting this political class is, and then its followers, with extreme consistency, vote for what we are voting for. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia]] My time is over, lucky for you. Not before, however, to inform you that in addition to the minutes at my disposal, the patience of our companies in the North has also ended. People who get up at six in the morning and who until the end of June - June! - you split your back to pay IRES, IRPEF, IRAP and various gabelle. People who are tired of working forty years and then retire for 500 euros because you, like the Sheriff of Nottingham, say that the blanket is short. People who are tired of investing the best years of their lives in studying for you and seeing your friends win fake public competitions. People are tired, and we are tired of reading within a filthy financial law like the ones you propose to us today! We in the North League are not voting against this bill of stability. It is all the North that works, unlike you, that votes against you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Fucksia and Bignami. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u101	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, the senators of the New Right Centro renew their confidence so that the law of stability, despite the misuse of parliamentary office, can establish the basis for an active journey. Italy is today, in its relationship with the Union, in terms of absolute compliance with the agreed parameters, although the high size of the accumulated debt requires the pursuit of its progressive reduction. But there is already today a dividend of stability consisting in limiting the cost of the placement of sovereign securities, whose reliability is recognized by the financial markets and positively influences the soundness of its own credit institutions. It would not be difficult to imagine the consequences of not approving the budget in terms of a drastic reduction in national sovereignty, an increase in the already high levels of tax pressure, an increase in the cost and restriction of money for households and businesses, and uncertain liquidity for public administrations. It is certainly not easy for a political force, in such a difficult time, to assume the responsibilities that we are confirming, but it would be even more difficult to explain the flight from the duty that we feel and that follows the demanding choices that we have made by organizing ourselves in the framework of the Italian right-wing. We are aware that we have taken on a double bet: that we can loyally compete today with the redefinition of democratic rules with the opponent of tomorrow and that, at the same time, we can share with those who do not think like us a first impulse to the growth of the economy and employment. In the first case it is enough to record today that the alliance is based on that mutual respect that President Letta himself has committed himself to guarantee. The two rooms will work closely for a new electoral law and for overcoming the perfect bipolar baroque. We are the ones who wanted this outcome before the Constitutional Court's ruling which, unlike others, we welcomed. We therefore want, with determination, to reduce the number of elected, to specialize in the task of the two Chambers, to give the voters the power to choose their representatives, to guarantee the stability of the Government through a majority prize of "reasonable" as it has bound us to do the High Court. Our vote today is, in short, a title for a majority agreement first, open to wider sharing then. We are also pleased to see that the Democratic Party itself considers the issue of work as a fundamental reason for the continued operation of the Commission in the decisive year ahead. I myself have been able to see how divisive this knot has been even in the most recent past. With the consequence of swinging measures, a non-secondary cause, with imponderable justice, of the insufficient attraction of foreign direct investment in our country. If we succeed, then, together, to produce a new regulation capable of combining greater simplicity and certainty in the definition of contractual types and greater protection in mobility towards work, we will have rendered an extraordinary service to a nation exhausted by the 20th century ideological conflict in such a different time than that of the last century. Good practices in other European countries and a pragmatic, experimental and reversible approach can help us. We will formalise our proposals in January. If we can add to this significant rationalization of the state, such as the regions and local authorities, leading them to reduce the indirect cost of labour from productivity wages, we will have done what is good and right, our duty and source of salvation for our people. All this in a year lived courageously and generously, so that the vote scheduled for 2015 represents the judgment on the things done before that on those to be done. Mr President, the confidence we express is primarily directed to ourselves, to our determination, to the courage of those who have left a comfortable income for an ambitious but necessary path for those who believe in a nation still great in the principles that support it and in the human resources that feed it. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u104	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, I have to say that I had prepared a beautiful speech full of data and ideas to propose to you: it was about banks and many things. Then I said to myself, but what's the point? What are we doing? When we started the process of the stability bill they told us that in two and a half years (almost three) people under the poverty line doubled to 5 million; we have 7.5 million unemployed, and in any case this financial (or let's call it stability, because it's really stuck in the mud) will not benefit the 25 million people who are already on the poverty line. What are we talking about? How can I convince you that you're doing something that doesn't make any sense? You know, I can't tell you anything you don't know. You made stability. You know what is inside and what is not; what had to be done and what you did not do. Therefore, at this point I can only tell you what I said to you last time: stop, and just legislate on sight. Go ahead with the blows of decree-laws and trust: this is the third time you put it on the bill of stability. In all these months you have shown that yours is still an obsolete way of thinking; you have not touched on topics such as money laundering, tax evasion, distraction of funds, self-money laundering and, as I told you the other day, you are handing over the country to mafias and crime, and you are doing nothing to reverse this process. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Actually this Christmas I would have wanted to go home and tell you that politicians have finally understood, that the government has understood that it is time to change the way of thinking; I would have wanted to tell you that it is changing, but this is not happening. Once again the change does not even touch you, and you have not for nothing mortgaged even the next few years. Whoever comes to rule after you will find with all the voices that you have had to use for this year's stability law covers and will not be able to use them for the stability covers of the coming years. Have you ever wondered why we arrived here in Parliament? Beyond our merit, perhaps it is more for your demerit, for what you have never done. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Perhaps we are at a crossroads: at this point or you really decide to change your thinking, your way of thinking politics, how you legislate and manage the State, and then you can be the real change, or you will be overwhelmed, by force, because change has begun. We are water, but slowly, digging the foundations, we will implode this system, and you can decide to be part of this process, thinking differently, or imploding with the system and disappearing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is why, of course, we will vote no to trust. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u106	You have the right to do so. (The Senators of the M5S Group display signs with the words: You return, too. If we can do it, you can do it too. Please, we've seen the signs before. Senator Bottici, Senator Taverna, please intervene. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the serious thing about this issue is not that they display cartels, but that they make a further mockery of the Rules of Procedure by taking up the cartels themselves and posting them on the Internet. This seems to me to be the most serious thing! AIROLA (M5S). We don't have your TVs! We don't have your papers! ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Do something constantly against the Rules of Procedure of this House. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called to vote for a new confidence in the Government; a confidence in the bill of stability, the measure which first convinced us not to give confidence to the Government and which confirms all the good reasons we had to leave this majority: no strategy, no choice of development, no courage. Money distributed in rain to friends and friends of friends, as any financial law of the first Republic. It is a draft law which - I must say, but I do not like to do so - mocks the Italians on fundamental points, such as the reduction of the tax wedge, or I should say the fake reduction of the tax wedge. Many people had believed in his words, President Letta - who is not there, but to whom we turn - when he had recently said: The Government is ready to include in the Stability Act a rule that binds to the reduction of taxes on businesses and labour the resources recovered through the spending review and the contrast of tax evasion. This is what President Letta told me at "Il Sole 24 ORE" just a few days ago. It is a pity that you have then filled this constraint with exceptions, with the exception of "severe" and "severe" net of "severe" and "severe" net of "severe" net of "severe" net of "severe" net of "severe" net of "severe" net of "severe" net of "severe" net of "severe" net of "severe" net of "severe" net of "severe" net of "severe" net of "severe" net of "severe" net of "severe." And now you know, Mr. and Mrs. Ministers, how long will there be for the cut-off of the tax wedge? I don't think so, I have the impression that you don't know A law that mocks the Italians on house taxes: you have replaced the IMU with other taxes not less burdensome, but even more confused, so as to aggravate the uncertainty and fear of those who have invested in the house the savings of a lifetime. A law that mocks Italians also on the rate of growth of GDP, which Minister Saccomanni predicts at 1.1 percent in 2014, when all other sources - ISTAT in the lead - set it at 0.7%. But it's called the law of stability. Well, let's talk about this stability, this totem that has marked the political debate of the last few months, indeed, I would say the last few years. You have done nothing but repeat that to get out of the recession it takes stability, that to give guarantees to the markets and to Europe it takes stability. You have interpreted stability as an absolute and exhaustive asset. But are you so sure? Take, for example, the Monti Government, a very stable government, thanks to the support of a large majority. Well, that stability, with all the decrees "Save Italy" and "Grow Italy", all diligently countersigned by the Quirinale, has led the country to the worst recession in its history: blocking consumption, liquidity, production and explosion of unemployment. To continue to defend the stability of a government that does not do the good of the country means to be complicit in the damage it entails, and we no longer want to be accomplices.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u107	[[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Your stability is synonymous with financial instability, international instability, instability in the streets, violence. [[Comments from the benches of the 5 Star Movement Group.]] You cannot continue to ignore - I have not interrupted you, colleagues, during your speeches - what is happening more and more often. A violence that came from the streets of the NO-TAVs, black blocks and pitchforks in Parliament's classrooms in the form of insults to cover up its inadequacy. What can we do to get out of this economic, cultural and social crisis? We must start again from a project, from a project for the country, from an overall planning aimed at resolving the nodes that block the economic system and create social discomfort. Distrust is blocking consumption. The freezing of consumption causes production to be blocked. The blockade of production produces unemployment and poverty. That's where social distress starts. How do you get out of this? By attacking the real problem of our country, which is public debt. It seems a paradox today to have to pay 85-90 billion of debt every year, how much we have spent on the most ambitious and revolutionary infrastructural work of recent years, the High Speed Turin-Naples. How many major infrastructures would we have paid for these years? This - we say it forcefully - is our priority: we have always pointed it out and we will not tire of doing so. The second major problem is that of relations with Europe, with the Eurocrats who have printed the concept of stability in their heads, who give hasty judgements about a great country like ours, guided by stereotypes that only the superficiality of a technical body such as the European Commission and its officials can imagine. We must count on more in Europe, Mr Letta. All this stability has not served you to have the strength to get the sharing of the problem of public debt and the path to solve it. No mention was made of the stability of the banking system, access to credit, rating agencies that gave triple A to defaulted financial institutions a few months later. None of the key issues of this crisis have been addressed. And today, instead of us leading a turning point in Europe, thanks to your weakness, we are here to adopt a law of stability under European dictation, obeying an economic policy that reserves its privileges to Germany alone. We know them by heart the privileges of our German friends: access to credit for German companies at a much lower cost than ours; cost of the lower debt service, almost close to zero; open public perimeter of the KFW (the German CoP) and hundreds of windsurfs and Landeskassen, which give hundreds of billions to German companies and with the suffering that may arise paid by the public. And more: the working system reformed with the Hartz laws; the euro weaker than the mark for non-European markets, given that a formidable market has been created in the euro area for German companies. The most important work had to be done in Europe. There you had to go and beat your fists on the table with the strength of ideas and of those who had understood what was happening [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] : a global financial crisis caused by deregulation that was about to hit even the countries less financially exposed, just like Italy. International finance has always been able to take advantage of crises and false information. It is a story that the Rothschild of London gained its first million pounds by spreading the false news that the armies of the anti-Poleonic coalition had been defeated at Waterloo, so that they could obviously buy the titles at very low prices, then sell them at large margins. This is the last useful moment to regain our leading role in Europe. Will Italy be able to accept this challenge? Let's try, starting with the governance of our country. We assure Italy of a real, authoritative government, son of a bipolar system finally mature. Let's start with the electoral law. We want to participate in an innovative project and not in the usual reformetta that satisfies everyone a bit: an electoral law that guarantees a strong government, otherwise we would always have half a country, half a government, half a political class. We have an obligation to equip the country with an Executive able to decide and govern, strong of its electoral consent, strong of the confidence of the citizens, strong of a stable and cohesive parliamentary majority. I say this in a Chamber - this House - which was unfairly expropriated of the electoral reform at first reading: we can no longer make mistakes. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We want a reform that starts from the conclusions of the Consultative Council, but that allows to reconcile governance with the necessary close relationship between elected and elected. And above all that it cannot and must not be dictated by the majority that today gives the confidence to this Government and that represents little more than a third of the country. In this connection, I must thank President Letta, who made a specific point on this subject this morning. An act of courage, that of this morning, like what you did not have with this law of stability: a law of stability that does not deserve our trust; a government, this government, that does not deserve our trust. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u110	TONINI (PD). Mr President, government representatives, fellow senators, the Democratic Party Group will vote for the government's confidence in the bill of stability, and it will do so simply because this is the country's interest today. On the government's decision to put trust, since the first reading here in the Senate, they have heard repeated in this House and outside protests that I consider - not particularly the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement - totally unfounded. The truth, Mr President, is that for about a decade now this confidence has been the only possible way of enacting the financial law, today of stability, respecting both the prerogatives of the Government and those of Parliament. What is more, it is the application to the Italian context of what is called the Westminster model. The Government's proposal is also presented to the Budget Committee in London, which examines it in depth and agrees with the Government on the amendments. The text amended by the Commission is now being proposed to the House for a final vote without amendments: take or leave. With the current parliamentary regulations, this working method, the only possible and the only rational one, can only be put into effect by us with the vote of confidence, and more so on a single maxi amendment, with the result - this is the real point, colleagues - that the law becomes a text of very tiring reading: a single article with hundreds of paragraphs. That is a first urgent reform, on which I believe we could all agree, to move forward in parallel with the constitutional reform of bicameralism and electoral reform: the modification of parliamentary regulations in order to make the Westminster method possible, even in this Parliament, without resorting to the maxi amendment and confidence. Of course this will be all the more practicable the more the law of stability will actually be such, that is, the instrument aimed at correcting the great tendencies of public finance and not at addressing a number of encyclopedic issues and, as such, difficult to govern by anyone, first by the Government - by any government - and then by groups and individual parliamentarians, through thousands of amendments. On this point, Mr President - you will allow me - I would like to point out the urgent need for a more careful self-discipline of the groups, whether they are majority or opposition, to impose more stringent doctrine and practice and strict supervision of the presidency of the Senate and the Presidency of the Budget Commission, both with regard to the Government and with regard to us senators. I conclude with a final notation of method: the real asymmetry between the Government and Parliament, in our system, with respect to the discussion of the bill of stability and budget, is the current technical monopoly of the General Accounting of the State. Let me be clear: I say this with all due respect for an institution of undisputed loyalty and professionalism. However, we do not react to this monopoly by calling, in an instrumental way, for a misconceived supremacy of politics, but by breaking the monopoly on the part of politics itself, that is, by giving rise to a technical authority on the budget actually "third," between Government and Parliament and between majority and opposition, as must be the Parliamentary Budget Service required by European legislation and now entered, with the reform of Article 81 of the Constitution, into our constitutional order. On this subject, Mr President, allow me to make another heartfelt appeal: in the coming weeks, the presidencies of the House and the Senate will have to choose the personalities who will have to carry out this delicate and strategic function, which could change the way we do the law of stability in our country. You teach me, Mr President, that, because of the authority of Parliament in the country and that of our country system in the European context, it is vital that people of recognized competence, of undisputed independence and of significant experience at international level are chosen, as a penalty for the domestic politicization of the organism and therefore its substantial emptying: this is a point of absolute importance. Mr President, we democratic senators will renew our confidence in the Letta Government precisely because we consider this budgetary and financial manoeuvre not a point of arrival, but the starting point of a new phase, of a new period of economic and social policy, which after the necessary, necessary and even painful phase of consolidation, will have to be marked by the centrality of policies for growth and work. The parliamentary process of this law of stability has been made more difficult by the hardship that has passed through the political forces that had given rise to the Government of broad understanding in very different ways. In short, in these months, to use a terminology dear to Nino Andreatta and often used by President Letta, politics has imposed its demands on policies, including economic policy, often forcing the Government to mediate with the rigidity of propaganda rather than to act in a determined and effective way starting from the real priorities of the country. Among these priorities - and I say this particularly to my colleague Mr Romani - was not and is not the reduction of taxation on buildings, which has certainly been and is under review. But it was not and is not the priority on the country's agenda, because this taxation is entirely in line with the European average. On the contrary, there was and is dramatically urgent the issue of easing the tax burden on labour and business, which is completely out of line with European standards. This is the crucial point on which we must start again. After months of labor, the political framework has become clearer and the majority forces, a certain smaller majority, but more homogeneous and cohesive, will be able to devote themselves fully with the Government to the policies necessary to open a new perspective before the country. In particular, the Democratic Party, after a difficult internal debate that has been transparent, in the eyes of all, has come out stronger and more united from the primaries, which have seen nearly 3 million voters elect, by a large majority, Matteo Renzi Secretary of the Party, and now intends to use all its strength in Parliament and in the country to give a turning point and a powerful acceleration to the work of the Government. With this law of stability, therefore, the maneuver has begun which must lead us to the mark of the resumption of strong and sustainable economic growth, capable of creating new and good jobs, especially for women and young people. There are three directions on which to proceed that in the law of stability are indicated, and on which the first steps have been taken. Firstly, it is necessary to facilitate the creation of new good jobs, by rapidly and significantly reducing the tax wedge on labour and enterprise and by creating a new, more modern, simpler, European regulation of the labour market, according to an Italian way to flexsecurity. Secondly, we need to increase the total productivity of the factors, for years at too low levels, in particular through an integral review of public expenditure that exalts its dual function, now depressed, of flying for growth and remedying inequalities. The creation of the tax wedge reduction fund, with all its limits to be reviewed, in which the resources deriving from the spending review should be combined, is a very important step forward. Thirdly, investment must be relaunched, which has for too long been compressed in infrastructure and spatial planning, in training, in research, making Italy attractive to international investors, negotiating national financial spaces with Europe and, above all, mobilising European resources: not skimping out of the euro, colleagues, but, on the contrary, enhancing the strength of the euro on international markets, through a genuine fiscal capacity of the eurozone, as advocated in the beautiful concluding document of the Italian-French Summit. When a sailboat corrects its course, there is always a critical moment in which the sails seem to collapse and the hull slow the race to almost stop. That's the moment when the crew knows that they have to maneuver sails and rigging to put the ship in the wind along the new course. There are millions of Italians who are suffering, sometimes in a raw way, for the longest crisis since the post-war period, a crisis that has found the country already debilitated by a long phase of stagnation and lack of reforms. But Italy is teeming with positive energies. There are also millions of Italians who want to study more, work more and better, undertake, risk, innovate, compete, and ask politics to put them in a position to do so. Responding to this question of development and progress is the commitment that, by voting for trust, our Group, and the entire Democratic Party, assume with the Government and with the country. Good work to all of us! [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u111	I recall that, pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution, and pursuant to Article 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. I therefore call for a roll-call vote on the single article of bill No 1120-B, in the text dismissed by the Chamber of Deputies, on which the Government itself raised the question of trust. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will respond accordingly. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Paglini. PIZZETTI, secretary, make the appeal. (The President declared the common position adopted by the Council at 5.23 p.m.) - 18.02 -). The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bilardi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capaccione, Cardinals, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, D'Alì, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, De Monte, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biara Elcomo, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fattorini, Favero, Filippini, Ferrara Elcomo, Di Giorgi, Di Giorgi, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri Senators say no: Airola, Alberti Casellati, Amoruso, Aracri, Arrigoni Barani, Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bisinella, Bitonci, Blundo, Bottici, Bruni, Bruno, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolilino, Cioffi, Comaroli, Consiglio, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pietro, De Pin, De Siano, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Fattori, Fazzone, Ferrara Mario, Florisia Gaetti, Galimberti, Gasparri, Giarrasso, Gibino, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giro PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the numbering of votes. (Secretary Senators number the votes.) I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the single article of bill No 1120-B, in the text dismissed by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 278 Senators voting 277 Majority 139 Favorables 167 Contrars 110]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD, NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the single article of the draft law are therefore precluded or absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u112	We shall now proceed to the final vote on draft law No 1121-B.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u113	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill No 1121-B, as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). [[Senators present 161 Senators voting 160 Majority 81 Favorables 158 Contrars 1 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u114	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-157.ana.u115	The Senate will meet again in public session on Saturday 28 December, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) I would like to address all my wishes for Merry Christmas. [[Applause]] I hope you found in your mailbox my best wishes, with the DVD of the Christmas concert, so that it will remain a memory of this Christmas. I'll see you after Christmas. The sitting was closed at 18.15 a.m.
