ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 896. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the examination and voting of the amendments and agendas relating to the articles of the decree-law was completed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u7	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the situation in Italian prisons is serious and unsustainable, both from the point of view of environmental conditions, for many institutions, and from the point of view of health and treatment conditions, for almost all. Time spends in idleness, under conditions of promiscuity and sanitation often beyond the limit of any decency, without activities of reeducation, work, other formative action. I remember that the number of subjects devoted to the various forms of work does not exceed 15 percent of those belonging to the prison population. The emergency that characterizes this our situation derives from a historical delay in the adaptation of the structures in terms of the quantity of places available, but also, and not least, of the quality of the environments and of the inadequacy of the same for the attainment of the educational purposes. A very important issue is the conviction, culturally rooted in public opinion, in a part of the lawmakers and also in the legislator of the past, that the only real sanction is the detention and that it alone is entrusted with concrete deterrent action by our criminal law. A great delay in dealing with the problem with an adequate decriminalization action has certainly caused a situation of unmanageability. The relief of the emergency through a real decriminalization action would have resulted in greater selection and more effectiveness in the action of deterrent, which today manifests itself in a very limited way, precisely because there is an attitude of understanding of the prison situation, for which many measures are taken precisely taking into account this particular situation of unsustainableness. It is therefore necessary to entrust to extraordinary action the restoration of a minimum of legality within our prison system respect, at least, the fundamental principles of human rights. Certainly this solution cannot be accepted for a long time. We understand that the decree before us had to provide for measures of a certain weight and also dictated by a certain concern, precisely because the situation has become unsustainable. We therefore express a positive assessment of the measure, which we also recognize a certain courage in dealing with issues that have been settled over time and which have not been answered. Of course, it will be up to the supervisory tribunals to respond promptly and fully to the dictates of this new provision. However, on the part of the Government, we would have liked there to be a greater sensitivity to a question that arises, and it is undeniable that it arises: in order to obtain a certain numerical result, it was necessary to extend the application of the rules to criminal cases of some importance, otherwise the measure would not have had a significant impact on the number of guests of our prison system. We must not forget, however, that there is a certain alarm in public opinion, which also lends itself to some exploitation by political forces which in recent years, on the subject of the security of citizens, have made and disposed of as they please, when they were in opposition and when they were in government. Therefore, we did not expect the agenda to be adopted on the issues underlying our amendments 1,208 and 1,216, but a timely response, which we did not have. In this regard, with reference to electronic bracelets, I would like to remind you that the issue has been going on for years and also presents aspects on which it is necessary to clarify. It is not true, Mr. Representative of the Government, that the matter is properly dealt with in our current legislation, because then it must be explained to me why the hundreds of bracelets purchased in the past (400) use only a dozen and why only one court has used this possibility. It is clear that there is something that does not work in the current legislation. In particular, the possibility of using electronic bracelets only on account of the availability of the prisoner is a limit. There is not, on the part of the magistrate who must apply the disposition of the house detention, the possibility to exercise some sort of negotiation: either accept the bracelet or stay in prison. I believe that a clarification of the legislation would have been necessary. Mr Secretary, it is also appropriate to clarify why the electronic bracelet is being used in other countries. I mention only the English case: from the news that we have about 50,000 inmates use the control system with the electronic bracelet. It is therefore not possible to understand why in Italy we have to resign ourselves to a limited use to a few dozen people, despite the large expense incurred to buy bracelets and the possibility of having, through a contract with telephone companies, a management of the system of control punctual and effective. With this presence we could have reassured the public and also lighten the costly work that in this case, instead, is assigned to the police, whose representatives, in addition to carrying out the necessary action of prevention and repression of crimes, have to face the burden of control on the territory of the thousands of prisoners - we hope - who will have obtained the benefit of home detention. A great saving would also have been achieved. It is clear, in fact, that the maintenance of a person in prison, compared to the maintenance of a person at home, reducing to a minimum the physical control system replaced by the electronic one, would certainly have reduced the costs of detention. Mr. Representative of the Government, by announcing our specific question to the Ministers of Justice and the Interior, we highlight this aspect, expecting greater sensitivity for the future. Despite all this, we appreciate the effort that the Government has made towards a revisiting of our detention system, opening up more easily to the use of house arrests and introducing also those exceptions that are necessary in order to safeguard the public opinion and citizens anyway from dangers that could arise from reimmissions, not in freedom but in less controlled detention and compared to some cases of behavior that certainly can be a factor of concern. For these reasons, we are voting in favour of the measure, with the hope that the future may be more attentive than the problems we have mentioned. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u10	Barani (GAL). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, I am going to the sad city, I am going to the eternal pain, I am going to the lost people, these are famous Dante's verses of the Divine Comedy. When the great poet walks through the door of Hell, he reads: "Leave every hope, you who intertwine, these harsh words that admonish terribly; accompanied by Virgil, the poet obviously enters Hell, city of pain and pain. These verses, read as students and legislators, dear colleagues, leave in my mind and in your mind a terrible feeling of absolute absence of hope and human dignity. Well, 700 years later, what is the difference when, for preventive imprisonment (43 percent, 26,000 people) or for atonement for a sentence passed in court (41,000 people), humans walk through the prison door? Today, as then, we go into the sorrowful city, we go into eternal pain, we go among the lost people; and today, as then, someone leaves all hope when he enters it. For what reasons, ladies and gentlemen, for the length of trials and for malrighteousness, estimated from an economic point of view at 31 billion and 1% of GDP, do you cross the door of prison 8, 10, 15 years later, without considering that in the meantime an individual has become a family, has a job and comes to lose everything? In prison, then, you usually live in overcrowded cells, which involve psychological discomfort and in which you are also exposed to a series of infectious-diffusive diseases that cause pathologies and organic-functional alterations in a number of ten to twenty times higher than the national average; a real prison pandemic, including tuberculosis, mycosis, hepatitis B and C, mononucleosis virus, typhus and paratypus, parasites, exotic diseases, including self-injury, wounds and trauma caused by acts of violence, with suicides (60 in 2012 a data ten times higher than the national average), murders, not to mention sexual violence. Yes, even those; there are some pm or judge who does it precisely purposely in favoring and allowing this. Once these people, paid the debt but not re-educated, return home, they become real anointers of Manzoni's memory. But in prison, these men and women remain alone, there is no one to accompany them, there is no Virgil as in Dante's Hell: there are men and women alone, to atone. They are not there to be re-educated, but to suffer, to be tortured, without being recognized as the most elementary form of dignity and hope for themselves, for their family and for their future reintegration into work and social life. Is it dignity or torture, colleagues, living in a cell, in less than three square meters per person, in six or seven prisoners, with the voice of the cell next door, separated only by a partition curtain? Is it not torture, under these conditions, knowing that 13,000 of those 26,000 inmates awaiting trial will be judged a little time after innocent? But if a doctor missed an operation, what would you do to him? Why can a judge miss ten, one hundred, a thousand and no one does anything to him? And for the other 54,000 guilty, isn't it torture what they suffer? At least with Dante there was the master of life Virgil to give comfort. Here to accompany our prisoners there are some politicized prosecutors and judges who, for their personal desire, bring to prison, we have said, even 13,000 innocent people. You know the examples: Of Peter, Ingroia, De Magistris and others. But the judgments Tortora, Pacciani, Andreotti (from Perugia or Palermo), Craxi, Forlani, Del Turco, the scientists of L'Aquila, Ambrogio Crespi and the hyperpena of Totò Cuffaro don't make you think? Most of the so-called gurus (it is a Sanskrit term of Hindu religion, which is positive, while here it is only synonymous with bad teachers who have ruined entire generations) are outside. I am referring to Sofri, Bofressi, Curcio and Cesare Battisti, who never did a day in prison; to those who killed Walter Tobagi, almost all of Milan well, a story for which almost no one paid except the Calabrian son of a worker; to those gurus who lead to rebellion the No TAV, with also involved the son of a judge. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the facts and numbers tell us that Italian penitentiaries are full, in spite of what our own legislation provides, that they risk not finding full and concrete application in the face of the phenomenon of overcrowding. This exposes us to sanctions by the Court of Strasbourg, which on several occasions has already imposed on the Italian State compensation for moral damages in favour of prisoners who were not insured with minimum standards at the prisons to which they were assigned. I also read the numbers of our Constitution: Article 13, paragraph four; Article 27, paragraph three; Article 28; Article 32, paragraph one. Then I recall Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as the Law on Penitentiary Law No 354 of 1975. Why so many unwitting laws? The forecasts that widen the share of the prison population that can be devoted to public works of utility in the social fields of health and volunteering constitute an important step forward regarding the re-educational and rehabilitative role of the sentence. That is why we, as a Group, give a positive opinion. Because it's a little better than nothing. Because the task of the State is to ensure full respect for the rights of all its citizens, including prisoners. If the current prison condition does not allow these rights to be respected, then it is essential to provide for alternative measures, such as early release or home detention, contained in the measure under consideration. If the rights of the prisoners are not guaranteed, it is in fact the same State that criminalises when it is unable to ensure compliance with its own laws. This is not acceptable. Article 608 of the Criminal Code provides for up to thirty months in prison for the public officer, including magistrate, who commits the offence of abuse of authorities against arrested or detained. If we, who are entrusted with legislative power, simply look at ourselves, we are complicit in this state of affairs which, I stress, too often crosses the limit of legality. This is not because I say so, but in the light of the calls for sanctions and recommendations from Europe. I also recall a number of appeals made to Parliament in recent years by the Head of State, as well as by various representatives of the different governments who succeeded each other in the past two legislatures. Certainly the measures contained in this decree will not be sufficient. Of course, the Government's text is a good one, which the Senate has contributed further to improving, both in the Commission and in the House, also thanks to the non-preclusive attitude of the Commission, for which I would like to thank the Undersecretary Berretta, and to the undisputed abilities of President Palma and the rapporteur D'Ascola, who have allowed us to reach good conclusions. I end by paraphrasing Dante's last verse, when he comes out of hell, and by this I vote in favour of my Group, the LAG: And then we went out to see the stars. Not a five-pointed star, but the starry universe. We hope that with the indult and amnesty, including the referendums proposed by the Radicals, that I invite you to sign, paraphrasing a verse of Purgatory, "seeing the four rivers of Paradise" we go out to heaven, so no longer to see the stars, but to see heaven as synonymous with justice and dignity even for prisoners. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u13	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the decree on prisons issued by the Government is, in the view of the Left Ecology and Freedom component of the Mixed Group, a step forward on the path of a return to civilization, from which our country has moved far away in recent years. The only reason for regret, as I said yesterday, is that this step was taken as a result of a stringent European directive and not as an independent and responsible choice of a policy capable of remedying its mistakes. We recognise that the government has not limited itself to issuing outbound rules, just to make some extra space in the prison patriae, but also to have intervened in the ingress, promoting the use of alternative measures to detention for the least serious cases and for prisoners awaiting trial, representing - as we know - the clear majority of the prison population. Let us consider this a step forward, certainly, but not enough. In fact, much more must be done to get out of the uncivilised dimension of our prisons, even in the light of the fact that we would have liked to see no more courage in this House, as we sometimes say, but more responsibility, particularly in relation to certain issues, such as drug addicts, on which much better action was needed and could be taken. We believe that the criminal laws that have been adopted in recent years, such as those on immigration and drugs, and which have been one of the reasons for the overcrowding, must be deleted. As we know, two thirds of the prison population are detained for crimes related to those laws, which are totally bankrupt. Think of the Fini-Giovanardi, completely incapable of putting significant remedies in the matter of contrast to the illegal market monopolized by the mafias. In short, we think that we must reverse the basic idea that there has been in the course of these years and that it has been carried out by the governments of center-right first, but unfortunately too often endorsed also by the political forces of the center-left, guilty from our point of view of having completely removed that little historically already very weak guarantee culture, sacrificed with total ease on the basis of some electoral calculation. The construction of an imaginary that made the security obsession the lever to counter the social fears and insecurities generated by the crisis became the very powerful cultural background with which we had to live and confront each other. And if we have called all this factory of fear, it is because we have had the impression that this back ground, this imaginary was used as a real weapon of mass distraction, aimed at building a universe of values and a scale of priority - security, first of all, or supposedly such - against which even those individual rights conquered after years of civil battles and human rights had to take a step back. Think, Mr President, of the legislation of these years. At the same time as the ad personam laws and the various praises aimed at guaranteeing the most total guarantees, for example, for the President of the Council, a powerful cultural structure was built that could upset even some guarantees contained in the Republican Constitution and disembowel laws, such as Gozzini, which had represented a hope of interrupting the perverse mechanism of revolving doors, according to which the possibility for a prisoner out of jail to return is very high. And it was finally passed, with the consent of so much of the population, seduced by the fierce rhetoric of punishment, from a social state to a penal state. It was, in our opinion, a real double moral that we had to fight against, often in solitude, linked to the difficulty of making these issues live in a public opinion very conditioned also by the political positions - as I have already said - of a substantial part of the Italian left. Think of a manifest law of this ideology, the former Cirielli of 2005, a law of mercy towards corruption, mild to the limits of indulgence for the censored rei (which all statistics, however, show belong to the most affluent classes), and instead excluding, discriminatory and anti-warrantist for the so-called social outsiders; just that idea of weak justice with the strong and strong with the weak that should be overturned at root. It was those rules, in particular, that generated today's situation, dramatically increasing the number of prisoners in the name of demagogy and illusory zero tolerance, which provided only and exclusively the centrality of the prison sentence as a resolution tool for cases of social deviance. That law, which introduced the figure of the repeated relapse, recipient of much longer penalties regardless of the severity of the crime, and the reduction of the limitation periods not in relation to the type of the crime, but in relation to the past of the accused, with the immediate effect of a severe repression of criminal behaviors often linked to minor crimes, was the ideological manifesto of a precise political thought. It is with this tendency that today we should try to operate a real cesura, that we would have liked much more clearly than what we are talking about; that tendency to remove from society the rei, the different, the last, without however this authoritarianism, experienced in recent years with a system of norms aimed at criminalizing widespread social behaviors (think once again to the securitarian obsession of the law Fini-Giovanardi in the matter of drugs), has succeeded in minimally intervening on prevention or, for example, on the contrast to the mafias that manage the drug trafficking. In Italy today the prisoners have already exceeded 60,000 units. This number is much higher than the penitentiary system can handle. In our prisons we live an inhumane condition and against every constitutional dictation, we get sick and we die. Suicides and acts of self-harm have increased to an extent, and not only in the harsh prison regime. A civilised country can no longer accept such a profound cancellation of the rule of law. That is why we are voting for this decree, because we consider it a step forward, because it reverses the trend of these years, because the problem of prisons and the system of penalties is not a question that concerns only the population held and only those involved, because we must break the sick idea of a guaranteeing regime for the guaranteed and executed for the socially executed, because on the respect of human rights, even those of the perpetrators, the defence of the identity of our Republic, which for too long has been sacrificed and has been mortified. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Manconi and Capacchione.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u16	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I do not need to anticipate our position on this decree-law from the outset. This is a position we have already expressed several times in the Commission. Now we come here to make a final statement on something that we think is absolutely unholy. The government's will to address a problem such as overcrowding in prisons with these remedies can only find us in opposition. They are only temporary solutions, temporary solutions, but they are provoking and will cause many repercussions on our civil life as well. Freeing prisoners and delinquents is only a device that will only create a remarkable mess about our way of life. I would like briefly to stress what has been foreseen in this decree-law. We are talking about early release, suspension of the sentence, detention for many crimes, extending so many of the current hypotheses. This means that those who have been stained with heinous crimes will find themselves free, will be able to go home and in our streets. What surprises me is what the Commission itself has, in some ways, weighed even further. In fact, the limit for detention in prison was also raised, which was before for the crimes punished with a maximum sentence of four years, while now the limit has been raised to five years. We are talking about assumptions against which our amendments were not accepted, which were aimed at eliminating at least the crimes that could create a social alarm. This has not been done. We are then faced with criminals who have the opportunity to enjoy some benefits. I think that all Italian citizens can only hope that the wrong party will have to pay [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , and certainly not benefit from any. I would like to point out that fortunately, during the debate in this House this morning, we have all been responsible for taking into account the position of the repeaters. Let's remember that in the original text of the Government, unfortunately - I really say unfortunately - the predictions of the limits of access to these benefits to the relapses had been removed. Fortunately - I repeat - the outcome of this morning's examination has led in a different direction. But I am surprised to think that the government, in order to solve a problem such as the overcrowding of prisons, has still thought to benefit the relapses, which - let us remember - are such because they have a propensity to crime and criminal life. It is true that repentance can be granted to people; it must be granted a little 'to everyone to have a second chance. But if we subvert our way of thinking about crime and we think that the relapse can eventually be forgiven, I wonder what those who commit a crime should think: they will think that they can commit another crime, because then the Italian law will meet them in some way. And therefore early release, suspension of sentence, house detention. But I'm not done yet. On another point, too, I think it is important to focus on: another case on which, fortunately, this morning this House had the opportunity to express itself and at least limit access to public services for drug addicts. I say this without having anything to do with addicts or users of psychotropic substances, which are certainly in a particular situation. However, the original wording of the rule of the decree-law provided for the possibility for the criminal who commits a crime, only for the very fact of being an addict, to access the works of public utility. The work of public utility is really important, it is a way to re-educate the condemned, but it must be something that is added, and not replaced, to the penalty. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are constantly facing a problem such as overcrowding in prisons with remedies which we find not only not only not acceptable but also deleterious. We in the North League have long insisted that the only way to solve the problem of overcrowding in prisons is to make new prison facilities and have the opportunity to give new places. There was a prison plan going on. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But not only that, there are very important data. We in the North League have always supported and continue to remind this Government and all of you that within our prisons, where almost 66,000 prisoners are present today, there are about 24,000 foreigners who have committed crimes in Italy and are imprisoned here; but I wonder: is it not really possible to assess the possibility of making agreements with foreign states so that these foreigners go to atone for the punishment in their country of origin? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia.]] Instead, how do we deal with the problem of overcrowding in prisons? Freeing the inmates. It seems to me that in this case we are thinking the opposite way: we do not determine the size of prisons according to the number of criminals, but the number of criminals by the size of prisons. Is that what we want? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It's time to deal with the problem. We abstained on the extension of the Extraordinary Commissioner's duties, not because there should be no Extraordinary Commissioner, but because we criticize the need for an extension. It's yet another "Italianata"! The umpteenth demonstration of a certain way of making laws in Italy: it sets a deadline and then asks for the extension. In this case too, I say that we must tackle the problem not with these rules, that is, by freeing this or that one and continuing to do sporadic regulatory interventions; instead, we should finally look at the whole and tackle the problem. I refer to a matter only as my own controversy. In the Committee on Justice we said that we should investigate the prison system, but if we now take these measures, even though we have not even started them, it means that we are dealing falsely with a problem without even knowing it, because we had to do the cognitive investigations! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Buccarella]] Finally, today, when we are taking this vote, we must remember the decision of the Council, which I believe we have all heard of today, which we consider scandalous. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Listen, Minister! STEFANI (LN-Aut). We believe that the Council has been scandalous in this respect, because it has stated that even in the face of a group rape offence, protective custody is excluded, since alternative penalties are allowed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia]] : precisely those alternative penalties that we are talking about today, so we are going to frustrate a set of measures contained in the security package launched, among other things, by our Minister Maroni. We only want the rigour of the law; in fact, it is right that it be rigorous, because, at the moment when it knows what penalty it faces, the criminal can be dissuaded. Our vote is quite clear. The Lega Nord Group strongly expresses its dissent. (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display signs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] No to empty prisons! No to the indult! No thugs on the street! No to the test!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u17	I call to order the senators of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group. I invite Senator Commissioner to have those cartels removed. (According to Senator Querre De Poli, parliamentary assistants approach the benches of the LN-Aut Group and remove the cartels.) CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Shame on you, Minister! He didn't say anything! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u20	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, fellow senators, Senator Albertini... (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group once again display signs. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u21	I urge the quaestor senators to intervene again. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Shame! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Perhaps it is better if Parliament's assistants stay in that part of the House if there is a third tranche. Please allow Senator Susta to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u22	Madam President, thank you. Senator Albertini has already expressed in general discussion the thoughts of the Civic Choice Group for Italy on the measure under consideration. We have shared the government's initiative, which has been added to a similar more organic initiative - for the truth - approved by the House of Deputies. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, I think Senator Susta has difficulty continuing his speech. Sunta (SPI). Thank you, Madam President, I have no difficulty with that, but I begin quickly towards the end of my speech. I believe that the first real reform that we should achieve is that of Parliament's regulations, not only to avoid these incidents, but also to make the debate and the adoption of urgent measures less baroque. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]] If the citizens saw us, this time they could actually complain! [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] As I said, we shared the government's initiative, which has been added to a similar, more organic initiative, approved by the House of Deputies, in order to address an emergency that certainly does not arise today, but which in recent months and weeks has reached levels that are no longer acceptable. A civilized country, a great country, cannot tolerate having a prison system unable to guarantee the recovery of the deed to a life worthy of being lived. Of course, those who compare people to monkeys probably find it hard to understand these principles of civilization. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]] COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Shame! Shame! Sunta (SPI). No, you start to feel a little shame, because it wouldn't hurt you! [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Saggese.]] [[Comments of Senator Crosio]] On the other hand, public opinion is certainly not less demanding of the need to safeguard a social climate of security and the fight against small and large crime, to which we must pay the greatest attention and to which the amendments and sub-amendments introduced in this House also tend to take up the concerns and suggestions expressed by the same oppositions here. In any case, urgent answers had to be given to the overcrowding of the prisons, to the excesses in the protective custody and in view of the better use of all those institutions introduced in the legislation of our country, from the so-called Gozzini law onward, in order to promote the reintegration into civil life of sentenced prisoners by strengthening the concept of the punishment as fine and progressively reducing the detention in prison as a typical measure for the most serious crimes, when there is a proven alarm or social danger and when there are no other possibilities, for subjective reasons of the deed or for well defined objective conditions, compared to the deprivation of personal freedom through the prison. This is a long, unfinished battle, far from easy, which is one with a judicial civilization that is based on the presumption of innocence, on the right process, on the effective equality between prosecution and defence, on the effectiveness of the sentence, on the speed of the trials, on the certainty of the penalty and, in summary, on the certainty of the law. Therefore, the measure under consideration, duly corrected following the general discussion (inspired by principles quite different from those which in the past led to indults and amnesties, which have translated only into revolving doors for the beneficiary persons), will have our vote in favour. We hope, however, that we will soon be able to review the matter as a whole, in order to give an organic and lasting response to a demand for civilization not separated from the protection of that primary good for the coexistence of people who are their civil and social security. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senators Manassero and Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u25	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in my brief speech yesterday in support of the question referred by the League I had already anticipated what I will briefly go to explain shortly and which has already been widely explained by my colleagues in the political group who yesterday had the opportunity to speak, namely an adversity to the decree-law, as it came from the Ministry, for the fact that it arrived. I'll explain. The denunciation that we make every day, for weeks, months, since we entered this Palace, goes back to the decree of urgency, that is to say to the ways in which in this country, not today and certainly not for responsibilities originating in this legislature of the Ministers, of the President of the Council and whatever else, we have been going on for decades. We know this: legislative production in this country basically refers to the Government, since Parliament is now reduced to mere notary that in haste and fury must try to pack at best, in time often very narrow, the measures governing the life of this country. This is something that we continue not to accept and stigmatize, also recalling what is said by our colleagues in the Senate, which sometimes resounds sentences in which we reaffirm the centrality of Parliament, the sense of responsibility and dignity. We continue to think that Parliament's central role should be essentially to allow Parliament to do what it is called upon to do: the laws, of course. This, not because of an ideological prejudice, that is because we are against the Government whatever it is, but because obviously these working methods do not allow Parliament to work well, that is to say to dismiss legislative measures that are not only quick but also useful to our country. The chronicle of the last briefs - I think we can say this - gives us a resounding confirmation. On yesterday's day, the government, the majority, the parties, or the single party - as we like jokingly and somewhat controversially to call it - which supports this government, in its different currents, has even been forced to suspend the work of the House. [[Undersecretary Berretta makes a complaint of denial.]] I understand your disappointment, Mr Undersecretary, but it is a historical truth that we have seen consumed before our eyes in this House and in the Justice Commission. I am referring to the difficulties with which the same majority has tried to dismiss certain amendments, which are certainly important, and the practical impossibility of being able to work in a dignified and appropriate manner to the role of this branch of Parliament, because - we know this, and it is good to say that they also know it at home - only in the late afternoon hours of yesterday the senators, the Senate, including the members of the Commission Justice, have had the availability of 64 pages of amendments and agendas, which included not only those already adopted in the Commission, perhaps already known, but also those tabled in this House. Being forced, not only us of the opposition, but also all of you, to work under those conditions has meant that this theater has been represented (forgive me the expression) which we had to attend in yesterday's sitting, during which we ended up even talking about TAV in order to find the time (a dozen minutes) useful for the Leaders or those responsible to be able to change the norm. What happened today confirmed that. President Palma also referred this morning to the very tight deadlines that have been granted to the Justice Commission to work, a concept which was also reiterated yesterday by President Gasparri; even Senator Giovanardi referred to the time constraints and operational disabilities with which he is forced to work. The fact that the subject is sensitive and that the situation in prisons must be put into practice is something on which it is useless to insist, and we do not like to use rhetoric, which we try to reduce to the maximum or to eliminate completely in the discussions we are doing here. We know very well that the European Court is imposing time on us. The problem exists, and I repeat what I have already said in yesterday's sitting. As a citizen, as a lawyer and as a Member of Parliament I have been ashamed many times of my being Italian in the face of the inhumanities to which we force prisoners to live in our prisons. So, the problem exists. In relation to the content and merit of the decree-law under consideration, we have also given, or tried to give, our amending contribution for the improvement of those points that we thought would be acceptable, and they are, unlike what the representative of the League said, that he thinks he must deny tout court the operating space to the decree-law. We share the idea of having, albeit in a limited way, these measures - both with what we are discussing now and through what we have already received from the Chamber of Deputies - to reduce the detention tension. Perhaps, however, if we could have thought better, taking into account other elements, we would have achieved the same aim - for example - in the area of decriminalization or verification, thanks also to the outcome of the cognitive investigation already arranged by the Senate Justice Commission, on the state of prisons, to understand - for example - how many are still unused, are ready and not yet operational. Of course, we know that they are not prisons with a large capacity, but with them we would probably be able to compensate, in the state of emergency in which we find ourselves, for the situation we are trying to resolve. The fact that we have been forced once again to face an obstacle race that puts the parliamentary machine in difficulty seems to us to be something to be emphasized and that justifies our vote against the decree-law in its entirety. It also reminds us of all the concerns we have expressed from the outset with regard to the extension of the figure of the Special Commissioner. In this case too, we have not at all shared the choice that has been proposed to us, if not almost imposed, by the Ministry. It is true that there is no compensation for the Extraordinary Commissioner, so let us not give him a speech about spending public money (I am also referring to the possibility of hiring ad libitum personal fixed-term, more than fifteen officials). In our opinion, however, it would have been a better choice to entrust the director of the DAP with the task of carrying out all those tasks in the context of the situation of the prisons and also of the real estate we have. The debate this morning on the alleged lack of coverage in relation to an amendment proposed by a Senator of the Democratic Party Group aimed at improving the health conditions of prisoners was symptomatic. Even then, under the eyes of all, the hastyness and the inevitable superficiality with which they were forced to deal with such a delicate subject became apparent. So, by summing up and sharing in substance the need for action to achieve the stated objective (we will then see in fact whether the objective will be achieved, and to what extent), we reaffirm our vote against the measure, which will certainly be approved, for the reasons I have tried to put forward. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u28	CALIENDO (PdL). Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the measure on which we are about to vote has brought to light some need for intercourse between Parliament and the Government, and a regulation has emerged that affects some fundamental issues. We said home detention was best. We have regulated how to take into account early release, which the surveillance courts had not granted, despite a previous period of imprisonment. We have introduced a socially useful work with this measure. We then introduced a more specific discipline for the Government's Special Commissioner for Prison Infrastructure, who - I would like to reiterate - was not set up - as someone said - to relaunch the economy, but to implement prison structures that make the most dignified punishment. We cannot give a further affliction, in addition to the loss of freedom. You see, Madam Minister, not just me, but everyone, we have been inspired by some basic principles. The criminal system is based on a process that is assisted by defence guarantees and accompanied by a fair penalty. The fairness of the penalty lies in the abstract prediction of the law, but also in the way in which the judge imposes it, because only a fair penalty can make the condemned warn the justness of the sanction and can allow what our Constitution - and not only our Jewish-Christian tradition - has imposed on us: to believe in the possibility of redemption and to recover after wrong. If not, then we should still accept the death penalty. If we have abolished it, it is because we still believe in the possibility of redemption and in the fact that those who err must pay, but must pay with a certain penalty, Madam Minister, a penalty that is arrogant and atonement, and there must be a differentiation between those who err the first time and those who are hardened criminals, those who are repeated specific relapses. That is why we have created a correct diversification. Because, you see, we have uploaded the surveillance courts and judges to perform a series of tasks: correct. But, Madam Minister, are we sure that this reform will be implemented? You know that today in the Justice Commission we have called for an extension of the reform of judicial districts. [[Applause from the PdL Group and the Senators Airola and Cuomo]] You know better than I do that, on the occasions we met, I've never done a bell tower thing. I am interested in the functionality of the system, and this means ensuring efficiency to the justice system both in response and in time. It cannot be a criminal trial that lasts years and leaves men in uncertainty. Behind every trial there is a man and a further lengthening of the times of the criminal trial, which already does not walk, will not be the ultimate cause of the recognition of criminal organizations as counterpowers of the State, because these organizations become the counterpowers that manage to guarantee the satisfaction of the rights to poor Christians, to those who do not have the possibility of a lawyer and do not have the opportunity to wait years. Then in this affair we must ensure that surveillance judges apply immediately the rules that we have approved and execution judges who are careful to evaluate those human aspects that we have taken into account in the evaluation of drug addicts and those who are suffering from a certain situation of illness and discomfort. Madam Minister, sometimes there is talk of amnesty and indult. Our country has been used for about sixty years to resolve the overcrowding of prisons with amnesties and indults, but if you really want to affect this situation - Mrs Stefani is right - you must still take into account the fact that there are serious crimes that cannot but be sanctioned with prison. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Then there are other situations, other crimes that can be sanctioned with alternative measures, because in those cases the prison penalty is the extreme ratio. And we know that the alternative sanction can be effective. You will remember when, in the years when you were in Milan (if I am not mistaken), the drug law was adopted: drug use was sanctioned, criminal proceedings were foreseen, but this did not have the same ability to deter that, following the repealing referendum of that legislation, they had the administrative sanctions that applied the prefect. Therefore, with regard to the contradictions with the principle of legality, it is a question of assessing which sanctions are the most correct, the most fair, but which must be applied immediately. But when there is a need to apply a prison penalty, that prison is, but that is also dignified. I cannot tolerate, as the Senator of this Republic, being ashamed of myself by wandering around in prisons where man's dignity is lacking. We can no longer tolerate these situations. Madam Minister, visit some prisons (I have visited several of them): in some prisons you are discreetly, in others there are living conditions of prisoners at the sight of which you cannot resist. We must punish, but we must punish in the certainty that, through the criminal sanction, through the help that the State can give with its educators, with its structures, also with the prison police, who make a thousand sacrifices, with the reduced number of employees that today distinguishes it, and that can still compensate for deficiencies due to the lack of administrative staff, we can guarantee those people to get out of prison with a job. And you, Madam Minister, have rightly included in the decree today the possibility for inmates to lend their activities free of charge and voluntary in projects of public utility. However, I would ask you to evaluate the refinancing of the work that prisoners carry out in prisons. We have a specific fact, that is to say that prisoners who have learned a job do not go back to prison; that is, there is no relapse or, at least, the relapse is by far reduced. I don't have to report to you the cooperative in the prison in Padua, nor the one in Sanremo prison, but you can go check out how you work in those institutions. In conclusion, I trust that we have contributed to the fact that this measure had a greater chance of making relations with the prisoner effective. At the same time, however, we must intervene together on the other measure received by the House: it is better to study, in fact, the institute of protective custody, since 25-26 percent of citizens who are in prison have not yet been convicted, and we all know that almost half will be acquitted! This is the average of what is ascertained. [[Applause from the PdL, LN-Aut and LAG groups and Senator Scalia.]] Madam Minister, I don't want you to save the Guy Court or the Caius Court, but I would ask you to give some thought so that the system can finally meet the demands of justice. [[Applause from the PdL, LN-Aut and LAG groups and Senator Scalia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u31	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, this is a first step, a new step, even a courageous one. Of course, Madam Minister, there are others we must take, the road is still long. We do not start, finally, downstream, from the indult and amnesty: with this decree we try to move a little 'upstream. Prison conditions are very difficult. Many Members have explained this well: more than 65,000 people in prison, often injured human rights, devastating social discrimination within prisons and the Court of Strasbourg sitting on us with breath on our necks and very severe penalties. We have tried to look at this decree by balancing two very important constitutional dimensions: the treatment and re-education of the sentence, on the one hand, the security system and respect for the victims of the crime, on the other. A new path opens up: house arrest, suspension of sentence, reliance on services, early release, voluntary and free work, increased protection and treatment possibilities for drug addicts. No automatism, colleagues, but nobody at all. When the magistrate has to assess house arrests, the first criterion indicated in the decree is to protect the needs of the victims of the crime, and the most serious offenses are excluded: no indulgence from this House for mafia crimes; 41- bis no opportunities, no doors slammed in the face; so for crimes involving forest fires, stalking and child abuse, serious thefts, serious relapses, repeated and specific ones. For this reason, two very important dimensions were sought: treatment and reeducation, with an articulated range of execution of the sentence, on the one hand, security and respect for the victims of the crime, on the other hand. The scandal was voiced because in the Commission we have increased the possibility of taking advantage of this comprehensive range of rules for certain criminal offences which were previously scheduled for up to four years and which has now been increased to five years. Colleagues, a little attention. The following persons are involved: pregnant woman or mother of words under the age of ten years with her cohabiting partner; father undertaking the authority of offspring under the age of ten with him living together when the mother is deceased or otherwise unable to give assistance to the offspring; persons in particularly serious health conditions, who require constant contact with the territorial health care centres; person over the age of sixty, if disabled even partially; person under the age of twenty-one for proven health, study, work and family needs. These are the openings, ladies and gentlemen. I'm not giving up, I'm not lax. That's why it's a first step. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that we must take further steps. There is one that we can do with the provision that came from the House on the testing, while here, at the scrutiny of the Senate in its sovereignty, we have the provision on the so-called decriminalization, so that this country has the ability to carry out a selection of serious crimes, on which the maximum penalty is needed, and minor crimes, on which instead we need another type of intervention. Same talk about prison circuits. Yes, Madam Minister, we wanted to include an amendment in this decree because we believe that the penalty should be differentiated. We must have a range of detention opportunities that is not that of the classic pole in which all prisoners are concentrated: megapoles, important but insufficient. There are small structures, although organized, modern and advanced, where you can do experiments, where differentiation can become concreteness and reality. There are other measures, Minister, on which we must intervene: I am referring to staff, from surveillance judges to operators, from educators to social workers and the prison police. We have to be careful, because when you go too far below the staff, when it gets tough for them, all the reforms run the risk of failing: good reforms must have ready, prepared and well paid human resources. Some challenges remain open, Minister, and I just want to mention one that is particularly close to my heart: in order to really go upstream and not stay halfway we must have the courage to make a modern and advanced reflection on the three degrees of judgment. Perhaps the time has come not to reduce them but to articulate them well, because so far this answer has not been there. The system of articulation of the three degrees of judgment does not produce a good and fast response, which can really guarantee the certainty of the penalty and a true sense of justice. We have another question of these days left open, Minister, this yes in his hands: the so-called reform of judicial geography. You have seen the atmosphere of Parliament, Minister: Parliament wants this reform, but it wants some corrections to be made, because there are some cases that create scandal and that you, perhaps through a corrective decree, could resolve, as Mr Caliendo pointed out earlier. Minister, for now this road has opened up; we need to work more, we need a Parliament that has a modern interlocking with the Government and a Government that has a constant interlocking with Parliament. We trust in your responsibility, Minister, and when we speak of Commissioner for the reorganization of housing in prisons we know that we touch on a delicate point, we know that corruption and the misuse of rules of transparency and legality have often lurked there. You, Minister, have a noble history; you also know, through your history, how to control: exercise all your powers and use your experience to show that the Commissioner's choice is a choice of modernity and is not the classic shortcut of Italetta. Minister, this is a step we will watch over. We would like to speak with you, that is why there will be reports that will keep Parliament informed, since, Minister, we would like to take together so many other real steps of reform, so that finally treatment and re-education, security and respect for the victims of the crime become a reality, a fact of civilization, through which we can look at our country and say in Strasbourg that we will no longer be punished because we are serious and because our legal civilization imposes it on us. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u32	We now come to the examination of the coordination proposal C1, which I would ask the rapporteur to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u33	Madam President, the coordination proposal C1 responds to the lack of reference, in Amendments 2,201 and 3.0,1000 (text 2), to the figure of the internees, which must of course be compared to the prisoners. In fact, these measures apply, in addition to the recipients of a criminal penalty, also to recipients of a security measure. The last point of the coordinating proposal concerns Article 4, as amended by Amendment 4.8. There was in premise an entirely ultroneal expression, i.e.: "Stop, subject to the provisions of the legislation in force". It has been thought to suppress it precisely because of the redundancy and the uselessness of an expression that is obviously implied by the existence of a regulatory landscape to which the laws introduced must refer.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u34	I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the final vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: With amendments to the law of Decree-Law No 78 of 1 July 2013 laying down urgent provisions for the execution of the sentence, the President shall be entitled to make any further changes to the formal coordination which may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group]] . (Senator Di Giorgi told the presidency that she had not been able to vote.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u37	Mussolini (PdL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, while we have just adopted the draft law for the conversion of a decree-law with urgent provisions on the execution of the sentence, the Consulta, in its judgment No 232, which was filed yesterday at the Registry, has established that the detention in prison for those who commit group sexual violence against a woman or a child is not mandatory. The text reads as follows: "The most intense injury of the good of sexual freedom... does not provide a constitutionally valid basis for the special precautionary regime provided for by the norm censored (the reference is to Article 275 of the Code of Criminal Procedure). Therefore, reference is made to sexual violence, to group violence, to sexual violence against children, so I ask myself: since in this House, with so many colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about increasing violence against women, increasing sexual violence against children and families, about paedophilia on the Internet, what is the consequence of this sentence? It means that when you rape a woman in a group you don't go to jail (we talk about protective custody, so before the trial). That's a very serious signal! This is what we wanted to avoid with Decree-Law No 11 of 2009 (on public security and the fight against sexual violence, as well as on persecuting acts), which has been deleted. [[Applause]] Since the timing has also denounced me, I will not actually say what I really think of this sentence, but I wanted to inform this House that they are all aware of it. I believe that this is a very serious judgment because of the social consequences it can have. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u38	Senator Mussolini, I think Parliament will be able to deal with this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u39	The next item is the debate on draft law No 890. The rapporteurs, Senator Sciascia and Senator Gatti, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Gatti. [[Brusio]] Colleagues, I would ask you to allow my colleague to carry out the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law is the first measure of the Government which, although partially and within the limits of the resources available, intervenes in order to promote employment, particularly youth employment, in line with policies adopted at European level. In addition to these measures, the decree contains provisions on social cohesion and on value added tax, which will be explained by the rapporteur, Mr Sciascia, while I will deal with the working party. The measure is part of a situation of serious and prolonged economic difficulties and in a context marked by a deep economic crisis... (Strong buzzing). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, I am sorry, but the rapporteur is unable to overshadow the buzz with her voice, so I call on anyone who wants to talk to us to come out of the Chamber. GATTI, rapporteur. Thank you, President. I said that the measure is part of a situation of serious and prolonged economic difficulties and in a context marked by a deep socio-economic crisis, which has been affecting our country for several years now, whose repercussions on the world of work and employment levels require structural and system interventions. In the first three months of the year - as confirmed by the Bank of Italy - the gross domestic product was 8.7% lower than the cyclical maximum reached in the first quarter of 2008. Over the five-year period 2008-2012, the fall in activity in Italy was the most marked among the major countries of the European Union. However, the situation on the Italian labour market has deteriorated considerably... (Strong buzzing). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please let Senator Gatti speak. GATTI, rapporteur. Today has been a very long sitting, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please continue. GATTI, rapporteur. Thank you. However, the situation on the Italian labour market has deteriorated considerably since the second half of 2011. In conjunction with the sovereign debt crisis, the modest recovery following the global recession of 2008-2009 has stopped and turned into a new heavy recession, which has curbed the demand for employment expressed by companies. Youth unemployment is a great emergency to be resolved in our country, if we want to guarantee Italy a future of recovery and new development. The incidence of unemployment is, in fact, higher for younger age groups (particularly those under 25). In this context, the Government's measure represents an important step, even compared to the past, in the fight against unemployment. Nevertheless, we hope that this will be only the first step in a long journey. It is necessary to continue with even more courageous measures, finding new resources that, in addition to recruitment incentives, aim to reform the system by creating the conditions for promoting new investments. Important issues remain to be resolved, such as the refinancing of the derogation fund and small mobility for small businesses, the question of exodus and the question of blocking the increase in VAT in the social and health sector. These are real social emergencies. In short, other measures must be taken, onerous and structural, which the resources available in this measure do not allow to be addressed. Despite having approved the decree-law without substantial changes, the Commissions combined finances and work have made improvements to the original text, obviously limited in their scope by the fact that no additional resources have been allocated. In this report I will take into account a brief summary of the measures provided for in the Decree-Law and their innovative scope and the amendments approved by the Commissions. Article 1 introduces a temporary incentive measure in favour of employers for the conclusion of fixed-term contracts of employment, with persons aged 18 to 29 years, giving rise to a net increase in employment, as well as for changes in fixed-term contracts of employment, accompanied by further increases in recruitment. This is a first step in the right direction to combat youth unemployment, which in our country now reaches almost 40%. The aim of the action is to encourage permanent job creation, self-entrepreneurship and social enterprise, and to bring young people who do not study and work (the famous neet) to work through traineeships and to combat extreme poverty. Amendments approved by the Joint Commissions involve streamlining and clarifying the procedures to be followed by companies to access recruitment incentives, as well as the exclusion of the application of the recruitment incentive for domestic employment, the abolition of the alternative requirement to live exclusively with one or more dependent persons, the repeal of the time limits within which the recruitment is to be concluded, the introduction of the one-month time limit within which the aforementioned transformation of the contract from fixed-term to indefinite time must be accompanied by a further increase in recruitment and the forecast that the incentive is subject to monitoring and evaluation. I would also like to point out that on Article 1 a number of amendments have been tabled, which have not been accepted by the Commissions, aimed at raising the age of young people for whom incentives are provided for employers, and that the same subject has been present in the public debate. However, the increase would not seem possible, as it is contrary to the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 800 of 2008 on the basis of the provisions governing the granting of the incentive. Article 2, in paragraphs 1 to 9, aims at achieving a more homogeneous apprenticeship discipline throughout the national territory. Of course, the principles envisaged need to be translated into concrete and directly applicable provisions as soon as possible through the guidelines to be identified in the State-Regions Conference. Amendment 2,500, approved in the course of the examination in the referee, proposes the deletion of the provision whereby, where the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces have not adopted specific regulations on training and guidance traineeships, the relevant state rules apply and the provision whereby, also for traineeships established within the public administrations, the trainee is paid the participation allowance. It is recalled that the deletion of paragraph 4 was placed as a condition in the non-obstacle opinion expressed by the 1st Senate Commission on the decree-law in question. Amendment 2.17 proposes the establishment, at the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, of an extraordinary fund, called "Fundo mille giovani per la cultura", with a budget of EUR 1 million for 2014, for the promotion of training and guidance traineeships, aimed at young people up to the age of twenty-nine years, in the fields of activities and services for culture. Amendment 2.18 proposes to allow public and private employers to refer, for training and guidance traineeships, to the discipline of the only Region in which the registered office is located and to the only employment centre in which the same registered office is located. Article 2, in paragraphs 10-14, encourages the activities of internship curricula carried out by university students in the academic year 2013-2014. Amendment 2.24 amended the rule providing for the possibility of granting incentives to students as part-financing, for half, of the reimbursement of expenses paid by other public entities. With this amendment, the concept of "refund" also includes the benefit or non-monetary facilitation, only for traineeships abroad. Article 3 sets out urgent measures for youth employment and against poverty in the Mezzogiorno. Amendments 3.2 and 3.3, which were adopted during the referee's examination, propose that the above-mentioned projects, relating to social infrastructure and the exploitation of public goods in the Mezzogiorno, should be promoted, not only by young people and those of disadvantaged groups, but also by those of the very disadvantaged groups and that the same projects should refer in particular to real estate confiscated under anti-mafia legislation. Amendment 3.4 (text 2), which was also adopted in the course of the examination, sets out a priority criterion - in favour of projects or undertakings which can rely on accompanying and mentoring measures by other undertakings which have been operating for a long time, successfully, in another place and in the same activity - within the framework of the above-mentioned appropriations for self-employment and self-employment, for projects relating to social infrastructure and the development of public goods in the Mezzogiorno. Article 4 sets out measures to speed up the procedures for reprogramming of national programmes co-financed by the European Structural Funds and for remodulating the Cohesion Action Plan. Article 5 establishes, on an experimental basis, a mission structure at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with the task of promoting, directing, coordinating, establishing guidelines and preparing reports, with reference to the implementation, as from 1 January 2014, of the Community programme "Youth Guarantee" (Youth Guarantee), of the relocation of workers benefiting from wage integration interventions and, in particular, of social shock absorbers by way of derogation. Amendments 5.4, 5.8 (text 2) and 5.500 (correct text), also adopted, propose some changes and additions to the rules for identifying the tasks of the new mission structure. In particular, the rapporteur's amendment 5,500 (correct text) proposes that the definition of criteria for the use of economic resources, relating to active labour policies, should also be carried out at the Permanent Conference on Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. Article 6 aims to promote an organic link between the pathways of state institutions and the regional vocational education and training pathways. Article 7 introduces amendments to the rules introduced by Law No 92 of 28 June 2012, reducing some regulatory constraints on more flexible employment contracts. In particular, it shortens the period between two fixed-term contracts concluded between an undertaking and a worker (from ninety to twenty days for contracts with an initial duration of more than six months and from sixty to ten days for those under six months); the prohibition of extending a fixed-term contract concluded without specifying the causality thereof is removed and the possibility for national or company collective agreements to identify situations where such a causality is not required to be specified is extended; the possibility of recourse to intermittent work, ancillary work and coordinated collaboration contracts is extended; the employer is allowed to sum up by professional or trade apprenticeship contract, aimed at obtaining the professional qualification valid for contractual purposes, the worker who has obtained a professional qualification or diploma under a previous apprenticeship contract, thus extending the use of the related contributory incentives. Amendment 7.39, also adopted, proposes the inclusion of an amendment allowing, without the condition of the existence of an interest, the temporary posting of workers within undertakings which have subscribed to the same network contract of undertakings and it is expected that the latter can define the rules for the semblance of employees by the subscribed companies. The discipline of the Institute of Intermittent Work is also changed. Amendment 7.45, which was also adopted, proposes to make it clear that the limits of employment relate to each employer. On project work, amendment 7.70 proposes to clarify the scope of the rule without prejudice to the use of project collaboration contracts on the basis of the consideration defined by the national collective bargaining reference. This amendment proposes to clarify that this rule refers to the activities of direct sale of goods and to the activities of sale of services, carried out through call center outbound, specifying, therefore, that the adjective "direct" refers exclusively to the sale of goods and not also to the sale of services. Article 8 establishes, within the framework of the structures of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the database of active and passive policies, in order to promote a better match between demand and supply of labour in terms of skills and qualifications, thus stimulating employment, productivity and growth. Amendment 8,500 (correct text), adopted during the review in the referee, proposes the inclusion of other subjects in the list of those contributing to the establishment of the database. On Article 9, which includes certain rules relating to third-country nationals, amendment 9.32, which was also approved, proposes to extend the scope of non-EU nationals who, at the end of certain courses and at the end of the relevant residence permit (for study reasons), are entitled to be entered in the register of employment centres for a period not exceeding 12 months, or to request, in the presence of the requirements laid down in the relevant regulations, the conversion of the residence permit to work for reasons of residence. On Article 9, which includes certain rules relating to third-country nationals, amendment 9.32, which was also approved, proposes to extend the scope of non-EU nationals who, at the end of certain courses and at the end of the relevant residence permit (for study reasons), are entitled to be entered in the register of employment centres for a period not exceeding 12 months, or to request, in the presence of the requirements laid down in the relevant regulations, the conversion of the residence permit to work for reasons of residence. In the current discipline, these possibilities are recognized to the non-EU person who has obtained a doctorate or a second level university master's degree in Italy. Amendment 9.32 proposes an extension to cases where a three-year degree or a graduate degree is obtained (in Italy). Article 10 contains some provisions on social and social policies, while Article 11, in some paragraphs, regulates the removal of rubble and land mixed with asbestos in areas affected by seismic events of 20 and 29 May 2012, as well as in those affected by the air trumpet of 3 May 2013 and paragraph 17 authorizes the Ministry of Heritage and Cultural Activities to provide all the residual funds of the Single Fund for Show (FUS) in favor of lyric-symphonic foundations, in order to face the state of crisis and to safeguard workers. In conclusion, Madam President, the aims of this measure, such as speeding up the creation of fixed-term and permanent jobs (with particular reference to young people and the unemployed), the advance of the so-called youth guarantee (i.e. the European policy starting from 1 January 2014), social security and social policy measures, the strengthening of protection for workers and measures for businesses, are urgently needed and no longer deferred. Nevertheless, the urgency of dealing with such a complex and dramatic economic situation should lead the Government and the legislator themselves to adopt clearer and more incisive choices in order to re-launch employment dynamics in all productive sectors; this need is witnessed by many of the agendas presented and accompanying the measure. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u41	I call the rapporteur, Senator Sciascia.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us, which Mr Gatti has already explained a great deal about, in particular, the (preponderant) part concerning changes to the rules governing employment relations, namely Articles 1 to 10, also provides (in Articles 11 and 12) for new tax provisions which we will examine very briefly. Cardinals of the tax provisions are the postponement of the increase in the so-called normal VAT rate, from the current 21% to 22%. As said, it is a simple postponement, as the paragraph 1 of Article 11 postpones from 1 July 2013 to 1 October 2013 the aforementioned increase. It should be recalled here, first, that VAT rates are governed by Article 16 of the Decree of the President of the Republic No. 633 of 1972, which now provides for three rates: the reduced rate (by 4%) for essential goods and services; the intermediate rate (by 10%) for particular products and services (for example, building renovations); the normal rate (by 21%), which has already been raised from 20% to 21% under Decree-Law No. 138 of 2011. With regard to the increase in rates, a number of complex measures have been proposed which provided - starting from 2012 - for the increase of two points for both the reduced rate (from 10 to 12%) and the normal rate (from 20 to 22%). The Stability Act for 2013 has put a firm point, providing only for an increase of one point of the normal rate, thus confirming both the reduced and the eased. As a consequence, in point (b) of paragraph 1 of Article 11, the provision providing for the inapplicability of the increase shall be repealed if, by 30 June 2013, measures have entered into force to reduce both the expenses and the exclusion or limitation of the tax bases, both for direct taxes and for VAT, of such an size as to result in reductions in net debt not less than € 6.560 million. According to the technical file attached to the measure, the postponement of the rate increase to 1 October 2013 involves a financial burden of as much as 1,059 million. Moreover, during the hearings held in the Commissions on the subject, it was said, among other things, almost unanimously, that this increase could lead to a decrease in purchases, precisely because of the consequent increase in prices determined by a VAT to 22%, an increase which would have a greater impact on the incomes of the less well-off households. Paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Article 11 shall read as follows: The share of profits of our country is 4.1 million euros that, with complex accounting operations, will be credited to Greece. Paragraph 5 implements the agreement of May 2011, according to which our country must contribute €26.1 million to the financing of the safety (the so-called sarcophagus) of the Chernobyl nuclear reactor. However, the payment will be only 25.1 million, due to the presence of an active surplus of 1 million, and will thus be due: 2 million in 2013; 5.775 million in additional 4 annual instalments of equal amount. (The sitting was suspended at 18.16 p.m. and resumed at 18.16 p.m.) Paragraph 6 is corrected (with a charge of 17,000 euros) the incorrect accounting of our contribution to the reconstruction of the resources of the International Development Fund. Paragraphs 7 and 8 rewrite the provisions for the detaxation of capital gains and active liabilities determined by compensations, compensations or contributions of a public and private nature in favour of enterprises damaged by the earthquake of May 2012, including therefore - and this is the novelty - the self-employed. The Presidents of the regions concerned shall be responsible for carrying out the appropriate checks. In paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 it is established that it must be identified - as already indicated by the colleague who preceded me - and quantified the presence of asbestos in the rubble caused by the earthquake of May 2012, by the consequent necessary demolitions and, finally, by the air trumpet of May 2013. These operations will be carried out by public service operators. The president of the Emilia Romagna Region, on the basis of the data thus obtained, will then indicate the contests for the award of the relative contracts. In paragraph 12 it is expected that the Regions with special statute (Sicily, Sardinia, Valle d'Aosta, Trentino-Alto Adige and Friuli-Venezia Giulia), as well as the autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, from the year 2014, will be able to increase the base rate of the regional addition IRPEF from 1.23 percent to 2.13 percent with an increase, therefore, of 0.9%. This increase is intended for the reimbursement of the advance liquidity already provided by the State for both commercial debts and those of the National Health Service. With paragraphs 13 to 16, a series of complex rules is outlined the procedure for the redevelopment and the definition of the return plans for the rail mobility system of the Campania Region. Loans of a significant amount shall be provided. For the depreciation of the loans of which the Campania Region has said, starting from 2014, it will also be able to increase the regional IRPEF rate by 0.30 per cent and that IRAP by 0.15 per cent, for a period equal to that of duration of the depreciation (five years). In paragraph 17 it is authorized for 2013 to grant to the symphonic lyrical foundations of all the residues of the Single Fund for the show (FUS). Paragraphs 18, 19 and 20 contain provisions to compensate for losses of revenue resulting from the increases in the VAT rate. In particular, the IRPEF deposit is increased from 99 per cent to 100 per cent, starting from the current year (match on the November instalment for 2013 only), and the IRES deposit (Company Income Tax) is increased from 100 per cent to 101 per cent. In this case, too, the second instalment will be matched. Unlike the increase of which previously (the IRPEF set up continuously) the IRES increase will only operate for the tax period in progress at 31 December 2013. The increases already indicated, for explicit provision of Legislative Decree No. 442 of 15 December 1997 also have effect for IRAP, whose consents are so varied: for natural persons and societies of persons from 99 to 100 percent, for IRES subjects from 100 to 101 percent. In the case of advance payments, it should be specified that these are determined as follows: by the historical method, i.e. by taking into account what was paid in the previous year (or in the previous tax period) and by the forecast method, i.e. by determining the advance on the basis of an estimate of the taxable amount for the year or period of the reference tax. Needless to say, a misapprehension involves the application of sanctions. In paragraph 21 it is stipulated that for the tax periods in progress at 31 December 2013 and for the following period, credit institutions will have to pay a deposit of 110 percent of the withholding tax on interest accrued on current accounts and deposits. As from 1 January 2014, a consumption tax of 58.5% on products containing nicotine or other substances suitable for replacing the consumption of manufactured tobacco as well as mechanical and electronic devices, including spare parts, allowing its consumption is introduced by paragraphs 22 and 23. In practice, so-called electronic cigarettes are affected by the new tax. A number of rules are also laid down which introduce (always from 2014) provisions for the opening and management of exercises for the sale of such products. This legislation, which is particularly complex, in practice follows the legislation currently in force for the sale of tobacco with all the controls and sanctions laid down by the Customs and Monopolies Agency. Finally, it is agreed that the Ministry of Health will promote appropriate initiatives in this area for the protection of health. Finally, paragraph 23 contains a number of provisions to ensure the financial coverage of the transactions highlighted. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u43	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Vacciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u44	Mr President, fellow senators, representatives of the Government, I will focus in particular, as a member of the 6th Commission, on Articles 11 and 12 of Decree-Law No 76 of 28 June 2013, which contain a large number of surprises. I must, in advance, declare what sadly does not surprise me, that is the fact that we are faced with yet another omnibus decree-law, a large container that this, like every previous Government, fills in an absolutely heterogeneous way with real, induced or presumed emergency measures. Subject to this, the first surprise (Article 11 (5)) concerns all those who are still talking about safe nuclear power. Surely there is the fact that, if something goes wrong in a nuclear power plant, the consequences, even of an economic nature, will pay for them (two, three, ten?) successive generations. In fact, Italy will contribute EUR 25 million to the umpteenth and (I wish I could say last, but it would be overoptimistic) reconstruction of the Chernobyl sarcophagus. It is precisely because it seems fair to me to do so for those who listen, that it is exactly the Chernobyl itself where that small "accident" happened back in 1986. Another surprise (article 11, paragraphs 12 and 15) is dedicated to the citizens of Trento and Bolzano, as well as those of the Regions with special statutes and of the Campania Region, who will see their additional regional IRPEF (and, in the case of Campania, also IRAP) rise to meet a series of debts of the respective Regions, the National Health Service and the public administration. At a time of economic crisis such as today, it will certainly be a welcome surprise. But it is through the paragraphs of Article 11 from 18 to 20 that surprises become more interesting. These are those paragraphs in which it is stated that, in order to meet the financial resources required by the decree, and I am referring in particular to the shift in the increase in VAT, an increase of one percentage point of the IRPEF, IRES and consequently IRAP payments is made. So, colleagues, let's get this straight: are we in the same country that closes a company a minute? Are we in the same country facing a constant decline in the purchasing power of citizens and a constant increase of the unemployed and the poor? ISTAT speaks of 15.8% of Italians in poverty, of whom 8% are in absolute poverty. Are we in the same country whose government has celebrated as a historical event to have paid partially and in a deferred way the debts of the State to the enterprises, finally giving these last ones a little 'breath? If we are in the same country, then this measure is the equivalent of the game of the three cards: a game in which, with one hand, the State postpones an indirect tax and, with the other, covers this delay with a greater advance of a direct tax. Too bad that, given the economic data we are all aware of and which we are now repeating in this House at any time and without prejudice to an unlikely economic boom, this greater advance is calculated on a non-existent tax base and will largely turn into tax credits. In recent weeks, Senator Calderoli has used the term "state theft." I want to be more diplomatic and talk about forceful loan at zero rate. Apart from the fact that we have turned to the wrong bank, perhaps we could ask how many citizens and how many companies would be granted such a privilege. Let's move on. Speaking of paragraph 22 of Article 11, the surprise in this case is not so much the increase in taxation on so-called electronic cigarettes, but the justification for this increase in the accompanying report. I quote: 'the safeguard of revenue from the consumption of manufactured tobacco, in particular cigarettes, which have the effect of replacing consumption... of such substitutes'. But where in this sentence is the protection of health? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If we admit that e-cigarettes reduce the consumption of those products that bear the inscription "Nuoce gravee alla salute" it would be desirable to determine in advance and definitively whether this condition can reduce national health expenditure, and only subsequently decide whether to increase taxation or not. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On the other hand, if it were determined that such substitutes can still harm health, it would be news to be communicated immediately to the citizens, without waiting for the results of the future monitoring provided for in paragraph 23. The latest surprises provide Article 12. In letter e) we discover that one of the few positive measures attributable to the previous Government, namely the establishment of a fund for the exclusion from IRAP of natural persons who carry out commercial, craft and professional activities without employees and with limited capital goods, is basically bled out to finance the measure under consideration today. I suppose, in view of the fact that such a fund has never actually been used, it was thought to empty it permanently and to take away the thought. After all, there was a risk that it would bring some benefit to the economy. Finally, Article 12 (f) gives us the greatest surprise: Prime Minister Letta will resign. And I'm asking for some attention from the government. During an interview given on 5 May during the transmission "Che tempo che fa" he declared (I quote): I resign if we have to cut culture, research and university. I don't consider myself a cult end of the Italian language, but when I read, in the letter f) of Article 12: "how much to 7,6 million euros for the year 2014, by corresponding reduction of the fund for the ordinary functioning of universities," I imagine that in some way there is talk of cuts at the university! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am convinced that the Premier, who is a man of speech, would draw the necessary consequences, but I call on this Assembly - and in particular the majority that this Premier supports - to take it away from a destiny, which is certainly the result of an oversight, and to vote firmly on the amendments of the 5 Star Movement Group aimed at identifying alternative sources of financing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caridi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u46	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on the measure we are debating today, I would like to make a number of fundamental points, given the importance of the issues we are dealing with here. As far as employment measures are concerned, it is worth appreciating the government's efforts to encourage new permanent recruitment and extraordinary measures for youth employment, which will allow the employment involvement of a large number of young people who will have the opportunity to experiment with new forms of professional opportunities even in conjunction with studies. Article 3 of Decree-Law No 76 also provides for a series of anti-poverty measures in the Mezzogiorno, which, however, seem to be partly dictated by the need to accelerate expenditure on European funds rather than by structured planning in agreement with the regions. Some of the actions contained in paragraph 1 of the same article provide for the possibility of the valorization of public goods in the Mezzogiorno, but they are not properly specified modalities and implementation times. I believe that the issue of the recovery of public assets in order to encourage the creation of new youth enterprises is an issue on which we will have to engage more in the future of the legislature by providing for immediate action. We must aim to promote the recovery and conversion of abandoned industrial sites, even removed from criminal organisations, present in industrial agglomerations scattered throughout the country, and in particular revitalize areas and structures that have benefited in the past from public funding and contributions that have not been successful. To this end, it would be appropriate to develop actions to promote and recover real estate within the meaning of Article 63 of Law No 448 of 1998, in order to convert industrial factories into incubators of enterprises to be offered for free rental, for a maximum period of 5 years, in favour of new enterprises consisting of young or disadvantaged people who want to share out, but who lack the appropriate facilities. I would also like to express my doubts about the contribution discount to young people between the ages of 18 and 29 who overlap with the contributory treatment of the apprenticeship contract. The decree, in fact, intervening in terms of training and training of regional competence, confirms the institution of apprenticeship as a privileged channel for access to the labour market for young people aged between 18 and 29 years. The apprenticeship contract has a formative purpose, while the incentive, referred to in the decree-law in question, is directed to a mere occupational integration. Having said that, with a comparative cost perspective, the government's intervention is likely not to produce the desired effects. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u47	Senator Caridi, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u48	CARDI (PdL). In particular, it is unclear whether it is possible to access the institution in question in the presence of a previous permanent employment relationship and whether the concept of the first relationship, of course of a subordinate nature, may meet a time limit in the 10-year limitation period. From the literal point of view and in relation to how the new paragraph 1-a has been structured, it would seem reasonable to believe that the 12-month limit refers only to the legal hypothesis referred to in point (a). This situation would make the use of co.co.pro more extensive and easier. and would increase the risk of circumvention of the conclusion of fixed-term contracts. In conclusion, once again calling for the development of new and more incisive instruments for the revival of consumption, including through the definitive solution of the VAT freeze and in relation to measures to combat youth unemployment, let us focus our attention on the objective of our action... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u49	Senator Caridi, if you wish, can forward the written text of your speech to the Presidency so that it can be published in its entirety in the Minutes. She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I think that this measure, subject to conditions given, indicates a direction in which to resolve Italy from the serious crisis that crosses it. It is also the duty of politics to indicate a direction of march, even at this time of great disaffection of citizens and citizens. I think that all of us in this House, beyond the ranks, must feel the responsibility of finding concrete solutions and also of instilling confidence in the future. Why does the conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 76 indicate a direction of march that must necessarily lead to system policies, as I also had the honour to say during the discussion on trust in the Led Government? Because it is the first time, in the complexity (recorded by all) of this measure, that youth employment is at the centre. I quote three examples of this aspect in the decree. The ratio of the measure is in Article 1, which provides incentives for companies to recruit them indefinitely. Helping companies in a time of severe economic crisis and facing youth unemployment with energy are the two pillars on which the future is built. In addition, in this article, with the forecast of recruitment of young people indefinitely, it is intended to stabilize work in a country where, as the OECD data show, 52 percent of young people under 25 are precarious: twice as much as in 2010. The second example is the reprogramming of European funds in the Mezzogiorno towards youth employment. The third one is particularly close to my heart. In Article 5, measures are laid down for the implementation of the European programme "Youth Guarantee" and for the relocation of workers and workers receiving social shock absorbers by way of derogation. A mission structure at the Ministry of Labour is planned for this purpose. That's not enough. It's just a first step. We must move towards the definition of a national system consisting of a national agency and regional agencies. 19 countries out of 28 (29 hours) in Europe have a network structure or, more often, a national agency with territorial structures and, unlike the rest of Europe, in Italy, at the time of the greatest crisis, little has been invested in active policies. We will also be able to build the future by addressing emergencies, as this Government is doing, if we will perform efficient and transparent employment services, where a girl or boy looking for work throughout the national territory (because one of the problems we have is that there are too many territorial asymmetries) will be able to find reception and concrete responses to the work. And this also applies to those who do not currently study and do not work because they are discouraged. These are not technical issues, but concern the need to create transparent systems of access to work. That is why we need to take care of some issues, first and foremost of the integration of active and passive labour policies: in Italy, only 1.7% of GDP is spent on active policies and only 3.9 percent of the unemployed are employed by public placements (82 percent in Germany). The link between actions that increase the employability of individuals and measures to support income is crucial. A public debate is taking place in Europe on how incentives to single centres increase the effectiveness and efficiency of action in the field of employment. The role of individuals in a functioning national system can only be enhanced: there are many good practices in Europe. Finally, I would like to mention the question of linking public services to employment and training planning, which is always recurring in the recommendations of the European Council. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to something that needs to be addressed. In the Commission we have always tried, of course, to align national legislation with the action of the State-Regions Conference, but I believe that we must reflect, monitor and evaluate, both on the part of the State and on the part of the Regions, Title V of the Constitution in the field of employment. It is difficult to have 20 different forms of apprenticeship in the 20 Italian regions; this was very clear in the hearings held in the Commission. President, as we discuss this measure, they strike at the words addressed by the Pope to young people in Brazil these days: Youth is the window through which the future enters the world. I think opening that window is our mission. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u51	Senator Comaroli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what the Government has managed to do on the well-known issue of VAT is truly incredible. After the frantic protests by the trade associations, especially the trade, the shopkeepers, the companies decided to.... don't decide! It simply shifted the expected increase in the ordinary VAT rate to October. In fact, in the fear of being accused of not taking on the demands of those who produce wealth and work in Italy - it is worth remembering - the Executive took 90 days to decide. However, while government representatives will squeeze their meninges under the umbrella in the agostan sunshine, there are those who will have to prepare, however the sad saga of VAT ends, to give up the deserved holidays in order to pay next November more tax payments. And the credit is all yours, Government! In practice, this decree suspends an increase in taxation with another increase. Someone compared this wonderful idea to the game of the three cards: I don't think David Copperfield would have succeeded in such a magic. A magic that you will charge those same companies that one day claimed to want to support, to want to re-launch, and then tax them more the next day. On the contrary, this time you have managed to do even better than you could only remotely imagine: in November, in fact, the increase in IRPEF payments will increase from 99 percent to 100 percent. The concept is: first you pay taxes, after work. Maybe. And even IRES subjects, thanks to your far-sighted idea, will find themselves having to pay the IRAP down payment for an amount equal to the 101 percent center of the income not yet produced! Today, companies are experiencing an economic situation in which they are in no way able to know what the future developments of the market in which they operate will be, where "future" means a time spectrum of only a few months. However, perhaps you are not aware of this, if you have even decided to go beyond the current regulation, which is already absurd in itself, with the payment of 100 to 101 percent. Not to mention the problem of liquidity for these craftsmen and traders, small entrepreneurs, forced to go to the bank to ask for loans and loans to pay the tax down payment! It is a real fraud against citizens and businesses. It is a species, then, as you decided to sink one of the few business sectors that in recent months was giving some sign of positivity. The increase, indeed, the large doubling of the tax on products containing nicotine or other substances suitable to replace the consumption of manufactured tobacco and on mechanical and electronic devices (and it is not understood why such devices are taxed), commonly known as "electronic cigarettes," in fact puts the wall a sector that more than others, in a time of deep crisis, was giving job opportunities to the unemployed. Yours is a real blow: without any consultation with the producers you are threatening the industry, with the risk of closing at least 60-70 percent of the points of sale that - and this is even more serious - would lead to losing more than 3,000 jobs. It wasn't easy, but you did! Congratulations, Government! There is therefore no prospect of structural reform in this document. And it could not be otherwise: you have decided to postpone and postpone, without ever really adopting structural and lasting reforms. There would be that, indeed, of the standard costs (since everyone says that there is no money and the blanket is short, there would be precisely this reform), appropriately left out by the Monti Government and also by you today put in oblivion. But do you want to save public resources by charging all regional health care the same price for syringes with an increase in corporate income tax payments? Let it never be that instead of acting, as always, on the side of the increase in tax revenues, this Government decides to cut the dry branches of public spending! The only measures in favor of someone, as usual, you have prepared them for the usual known. It is interesting to note, in fact, the possibility that you allow the Campania Region alone to be able to hijack fresh resources in order to weld its holes in the matter of railway regional transport: a certainly meritocrat attitude towards those who have always respected the rules, towards those who have managed with care the public resources! The decree on public administration payments, which you so much praised, does not adequately consider the institutions in a healthy and virtuous way, that today in Italy they find themselves in the paradoxical situation of being excluded from these benefits; so, whoever behaves efficiently, suffers more than others your horizontal cuts! You managed, in short, to make disappear, but only for three months, the increase in VAT. You suspended the IMU. You're storming the TARES. The trusting Italians therefore hope in a much greater magic: that this Government disappears! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] With regard to the extraordinary measures for promoting employment, particularly youth, social cohesion, it can be said that the title of the decree is beautiful, but only the title. Do you think that measures to encourage the permanent recruitment of young people between 18 and 29 years of age, in exchange for a decontribution of as much as one third of gross earnings, will really solve the much wider problem of unemployment that has now reached 12.2% (when only three years ago was 8.8%)? We don't think so. Even more striking, among other things, after all the proclamations that this Government has always made of the promises (it has made so many: they really seemed to be announcements that would revolutionize everything), is that almost nothing has been found in this provision, to the point of causing more than one observer to conclude, once again in our country, that the mountain has given birth to a mouse. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Mr President, I would ask that the remaining part of my speech be added to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u53	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u54	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u55	Mr President, Minister, Article 1 of the Constitution states that Italy is a democratic Republic based on labour. It is the first article, not an article included in the body of our Constitutional Charter. No, it is the first, that is, the one that must condition the next: the foundation, the principle of what follows and depends on it. So, from work economic policies, from economic policies the economy. Today you have succeeded in overturning this sequence: today from the economy (we will also see which) depends economic policies; from these, the rights and duties of the work. You have succeeded in making the work depend on others; the work, from the principal that it was, has become consequential. What economy, did we say before? If it were based at least on economic activity - the real one, that of the enterprise with its artisans, entrepreneurs, employees, with their experiences, machinery, fatigue, sweat - it would be a natural propensity to the well-being of its actors. We would still be in the midst of the three social functions on which human communities must stand: the function of economic activity, the political function and the cultural function. Here we are succubs of the financialized economy, the one that counts on the increase of the fine wealth in itself, cynical, aseptic, that it heads towards an individualist profit (which is very different from the individual profit), that it looks not to the well-being, but to the speculation. The domination of financial markets. The order of financial markets. The markets are asking us to do so. Do we remember that? The markets would not understand. The markets need it. Citizens need it! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The citizens! The people of workers, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, housewives, pensioners. And our students. They're the ones who need it. Them! We, the 5 Star Movement, are the beginning, unstoppable and irreversible: put your soul in peace. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are here to restore, rebalance and secure to the productive economy the resources that your economy, dominated by financial interests, is subtracting. We are the new liberation, a new alliance between the three social functions: economic, political and cultural. The measure we are going to vote on will have more publicity than results. It's fake. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It's simple melina. You only need it to give the impression to citizens that the government and its majority (PD and PdL, newlyweds), are working for the good of the country. For the good of the country: a phrase that comes out of your lips over and over again, like a mantra, that you sound so many times that at a certain point those who listen must believe it. For the good of the country. You don't want to abandon the F-35 bomber program, for the good of the country. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]] Do not distrust a direct minister responsible for the Dicastery who delivered a six-year-old woman and child to a country in which they risk their safety, for the good of the country. You abuse our intelligence. You abuse many and many times, and who knows how many others await us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The measure that should revolutionize the world of permanent workers offers almost ludicrous resources: 500 million euros for the regions of the Mezzogiorno and 294 million euros for the remaining regions. The benefit in question shall consist of a maximum amount of EUR 650 per month for a maximum of eighteen months. Well, the calculation is soon done: if all goes well, i.e. if the bureaucratic-normative bonds that are still present in the measure will allow it, there will be only 67,863 work units that will be occupied thanks to this benefit. But let's go into detail. ISTAT data: in the first quarter of 2013 people in working age, between unemployed and inactive, are 17,602,000. So, hopefully, as we've seen before, 67,863 people will be employed indefinitely. Well, we're gonna fix 0.38 percent of those 17 and a half million or so. This is the government of doing and this rule will be the norm of doing it. Congratulations! And I pay! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Pin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u56	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measures provided for in Decree-Law No 76, which the Government submits to the Chambers for its conversion into law, touch on many subjects. Measures relating to the promotion of youth work, the reform of precarious contracts, traineeships and student support, both in high school and in university, while going in the right direction, have a fundamental flaw: they are doomed to fail because they do not act in depth. Unfortunately, they represent only palliative to the serious economic and social crisis that afflicts our country. With regard to young people and employment, these are some data released by the OECD in the last Annual Labour Report in the 34 Member States. As far as Italy is concerned, the landscape is unfortunately bleak: more than half of Italian workers under 25 (52.9 percent) have temporary jobs; the percentage of precarious people almost doubled compared to 2000; youth unemployment in Italy, at the end of 2012, reached 35.3 percent, with a percentage of women without more work (37.5 percent) than that of men (33.7 percent); in our country the share of young people under 25 who do not work and do not go to school, the so-called NEET generation, increased by 5 percentage points up to 21.4 percent has increased alarmingly. Among the OECD countries, only Greece and Turkey do worse than us. Worrying figures, which put us in front of our responsibilities. Something must therefore be done to try to solve this dramatic problem. But I wonder: can a country without growth give jobs to young people? In our country there are increasing hours of cash integration and there are numerous companies forced to close and fire their employees or to sub-employ them in black, as happens more and more often also in what was once the industrious North-East of Italy. The recent negative judgment by the Standard & Poor's rating agency on our government bonds and their consequent downgrading foretell a dark future for our economy. If this Government, supported by a majority never seen in the history of the Republic, will not intervene more courageously, there is a risk that these measures to promote employment will not serve anything. In fact, companies with low turnover and excessive taxation cannot afford to hire young workers, even in the presence of government incentives. None of these measures is aimed at relaunching development. I would like to remind you that employment, and not just youth employment, is only relaunched with growth. The postponement of the increase in VAT to October and the indecisions regarding the IMU justify the most ferocious criticisms directed to the Government to procrastinate its decisions to future times. The failure to adopt a necessary and urgent tax reform, which involves a reduction in taxes on productive activities (IRAP) and labour (IRPEF), indicates the total lack of courage of the Executive chaired by President Letta. The anomalous majority that supports this greedy government is in fact constantly kept under check by the miserable blackmails that now come from one, now on the other political side. This decree is therefore not equal to the serious emergency that our country is experiencing. Instead of providing incentives for the recruitment of new young workers, the State, as long-term business demands, should reduce the tax burden which weighs so much on wages. This complex crisis - which is undermining the credibility of the national and European institutions themselves - comes from afar. First of all, it is a crisis of question to which the wrong answers have been given. In fact, it was thought that bank credits were sufficient to support the purchase of goods and services, but in this way drugging the whole system. Now that these credits are no longer available, because of the difficult situation in the banking sector, we inevitably need to take bolder measures to support demand. Without income there is no demand and without demand there is no production of goods and services. We must reverse this vicious circle by ensuring that Italian workers have a greater purchasing capacity: a higher income will lead to increased demand and therefore an increase in the production of companies. The crisis, first financial, then economic and finally social, started in 2008 must not be the justification for all our evils. The decline of the Italian economy comes from afar and is the direct consequence of at least a decade of failed reforms. The responsibility for the crisis in Italy lies with the short-sighted policies put in place by an increasingly delegitimized ruling class. [[Call the president back.]] Am I out of time? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please finish, Senator De Pin. Some political forces have nicknamed this Executive the Government of the Inciucio. I'd rather believe that this strange majority can still work for the good of the country. This Government must take strong decisions, perhaps unpopular, but necessary for the hope of a better future to return to Italy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Albano.]] Mr President, I would ask that the remaining part of my speech be added to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u57	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u59	Mr Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only make brief comments within the time allowed, focusing on the aspects contained in this measure and on public interventions aimed at strengthening employment policies. Under the magnifying glass of unemployment the situation of the whole eurozone is focused, with an unemployment rate of 11 points, as it grows in Italy. In our country, the data recently published by ISTAT raises the alarm about work: we are concerned about a rise in the unemployment rate, which exceeds 12%, reaching the highest level since 1977. These are national averages, which sum up the state of the country, but these figures, in particular, are more serious if they are considered regionally: in the North the level of unemployment is 9.2%; in the Centre it is 11%; in the Mezzogiorno it rises to 20%. It is a real social crisis that does not allow families to be able to build their own future with certainty. The youth unemployment index, which refers to young people between 15 and 24 years of age, stands at 40% and takes a yellow picture that highlights the lack of employment of the new generations: from 26.6 percent of youth unemployment in Lombardy is increased to 40% of Lazio, up to 47 percent of Sardinia. As stated by the Minister for Labour, Enrico Giovannini, the shortage of employment of these groups costs Europe EUR 155 billion each year, due to a lack of human resources. In detail, 25 billion are dusted in Italy. I am referring to the NEET phenomenon, namely young people who do not receive education and training. Speaking of the economic crisis, Pope Francis, who arrived in Brazil yesterday to celebrate World Youth Day, stressed that we run the risk of having an entire generation who did not have work and, in addition, that from the possibility of earning bread derives the dignity of the person. That is why development and employment are today more than ever the challenges to be faced and the problems to be solved in order to achieve a modern society in which all, men and women, and above all our young people, can have the same chances that allow them to trace a path of affirmation of their working expectations. However, in relation to this measure, I have concerns about the effectiveness of the measure and the ability to provide adequate responses in these global crisis vortexes. In this respect, I believe that the maximum limit, set at 29 years of age, to take advantage of the incentives provided for in Article 1 is too low to allow reasonable and affordable feedback to today's work needs. It is well known that the age group between 18 and 29 years of age expresses a part of the Italian employment fabric and does not appear to be, among other things, the most representative. Another concern is the incentive, equal to a third of the gross monthly wage taxable for social security purposes, for new contracts without a time limit, which risks not having the right impact on the labour market, and this is because companies today, as everyone knows, are in a position to lay off employees in the workforce and not to take on new ones. The third concern is that in relation to youth entrepreneurship, Italy is struggling with access to credit, which is too high compared to European and international realities. For a young man with a brilliant entrepreneurial idea... [[Call the president back.]] I'll deliver the text, because I can't cut it. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u60	Excuse me, Senator Floris, but these are the times attributed by the Groups. The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the text of your speech, which will be published in an annex to the Minutes of the sitting. Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in this situation of serious economic crisis affecting our country and involving businesses, citizens and workers, we are asked for an extraordinary commitment on the real problems of our territories and people. The refinancing of the integration fund by way of derogation is an alarm cry launched by the regions and concerns so many individual situations that we have to deal with. From the first data, the unblocking of 550 million foreseen in Decree-Law No. 54 of 2013, which we converted into law last Wednesday, although it goes in the desired direction, is not enough. For example, in my region, Tuscany, 36 million euros were allocated, which allowed to cover the needs of 2.897 workers. However, 19,000 people remain excluded from coverage, according to the data of the Region. All this creates situations of tension in the territory, as happened with the occupation, albeit peaceful, of the Municipality of Scandicci by the workers of Elettrolux (formerly ISI), worried about their exclusion from the IGC. But this situation is not only about Tuscany. The June report of the CGIL Observatory speaks of more than 530,000 workers in the zero-hour Cassa Integrazione in the first six months of this year, and all regions ask the Executive for an additional allocation of €1.4 billion to cover at least the needs of the year. I believe that today we can positively assess the sensitivity of the Government, which has undertaken to finance social shock absorbers and to ensure an effective full coverage of the needs of the current year by accepting in the Commission, in the discussion of this decree, the agenda at my first signature. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am well aware that the financing of the integration fund is not a decisive measure for the economic recovery and recovery of the country, but we also know that alongside the measures for growth we must take incisive measures to ensure social stability, which otherwise risks evolving and moving from distrust to protest or, even worse, to revolt. However, we must respond promptly to these dramas both with policies of care and support and with industrial policies and with the revival of investment. The first investment we make with this measure is to believe in young people by promoting their fast and qualified integration into the world of work and thus guaranteeing companies the opportunity to innovate and become competitive. The measures for social resilience and growth are the two priorities that we must take together to restore confidence and hope, without which we will hardly be able to relaunch the country and attract investments. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u62	She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it is always sad to speak in front of such a deserted Chamber, but we still try. Mr President, I am Giuseppe, a citizen, one of the many who over thirty years old and - alas - lost his job. One of the many who doesn't have enough voice to scream his own indignation, his own anger, his own impotence. Someone who owns the property, the first house, bought with the mortgage and who can't pay the condo fees, so... . foreclosure of his wife's salary: 350 euros less every end of the month. Briciole for someone who earns 14,000 euros, maybe only paid to represent himself. One of the many who seriously thought about suicide. One of the many who, however, loves life and who is moved by watching a sunset or listening to blues. One of the many persecuted by Equitalia. One of the many who is ashamed of being Italian. One of the many voting on the left. One of the many that now, at this moment, needs concrete, tangible, easily measurable aid. One of the many who asks you to tell us that when you lose your dignity, you also lose a bit of freedom: freedom of movement, of socialization. One of the many tired of being teased. One of the many that puts 10 euros of gasoline when it has them. Here's an e-mail, one of many. Gentlemen, it is a duty to give a voice to those who are suffering from this. And it is not a case in itself, rest assured: he, like so many others, is the result of the failed policies endured until today. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The social elevator is not only stationary, but it is broken, blocked by evil and bad government. Without material freedom there is neither political freedom nor democracy. Gentlemen, don't hide behind a finger: Italy has reached 2.074 billion public debt, equal to 130.3 percent of GDP, worse than us only Greece. We try to empty an ocean with a saucepan, and it's also laundry! Finance dictates all the rules! If Italy does not react, the market will do it for her with its universal language: there will be a next rise in the interests required, until we make our debt unsustainable. But how do we give the kids hope? We have tried to stress, in the discussion of bill 890, that youth policies cannot be armored until the age of 29, but you have not listened to us. We wanted to raise the threshold to at least 35 years old, but you said no. It is humiliating to see people looking for work with despair, and we will be curious to know how many children of politicians come to the desks of employment centers! Do you have any idea of the job opportunities of over 30 people? What future to offer to the over 30? The path of desperation? The way of emigration? No, gentlemen, these citizens have the right to find these answers in Italy! We of the 5 Star Movement always quote the Constitution; we believe in the Constitution, we consider it beautiful; Beauty will save the world, and it is not an idiocy. However, it cannot be understood and loved if you do not have an inner Constitution and it cannot be enough if you do not have it inside, if you do not feel it as part of our daily life, our conscience and our spirit. The soul comes before any legislator and any Constitution. In the end, it is not even the rules that dictate politics, as well as selfishness or altruism. In this decree-law we played the charade of the amendments, which have taken away so much energy to all of us, and you have systematically provided them in the ballet of the Commissions with the fastest chorus of: "Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Not approved!Moreover, it was already decided from the government. Article 1 of the draft law will try to give young people a little breath, if they are 18 to 29 years old, if they have been unemployed for at least 6 months, if they have not studied high school or university, but only compulsory or professional schools. These are requirements that remind us of the post-war years: then the work was required, today we have to invent it. Only observation: in the past years there was the strange habit that when we worked at least they paid us. And any reference to the 18,500 volunteer workers of EXPO is purely random. Gentlemen, we would like to remind you that in Italy three companies die every two hours; those that have not failed have been bought and dismembered by foreign and multinational buyers; those that remain are planning to relocate. Those who "produce again" do so in countries where human beings are exploited and enslaved and their territories polluted and destroyed, then put shamelessly the brand made in Italy. There are few industrialists who retain humanity and a sense of ethics. When will an entrepreneur like Adriano Olivetti, who conceived the factory as a place of work and cultural growth, be born to the point of supporting the workers and engineers figures such as poets and writers? Well, only then will we get out of the dark! These are the years of greed. It's chaos. We must ask ourselves where we want to go, in which direction, with what resources and in what situation of sociality. In the Greek language of philosophy, Ηάος does not mean at all disorder or confusion, but unbridled distance, abyss. Ηάος is the gap, it is the space of separation in which you do not touch the bottom, in a narrow sense it is the void. The emptiness reigns today; the emptiness is the distance between this policy and Joseph, who asks for concrete, tangible, easily measurable aids, and who can no longer make it! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those who are going to adopt this measure will have to explain many things to the Italians. First of all, it will have to explain to the Italians how it is still possible to say that taxes are not increased. Some may say, but yes, there is an increase in payments. But, gentlemen, we are talking about advances calculated on the work of people who do not have the job; we are talking about a reality in which in order to be able to give political satisfaction to their majority we ask the Italians to pay taxes on the work that has not yet been done and that there will not be any. What's going to happen with this? One more hole! We do not believe that by saying that the increase in VAT is postponed to November people start again to spend money and to put the economic system back into circulation. Families are scared, people aren't sure they're keeping that right income that they've worked hard in recent years. Then, on the one hand, we will have had difficulties in the payments of public administrations, which are increasingly uncomfortable with budgets that will be closed perhaps in September (we do not know yet why the State has not yet clarified what it will make available and whether it will honour the commitments made over the years with the Municipalities); on the other hand, we find ourselves with families that do not spend the money that are left to them in an absolutely reckless way and without any guarantee, waiting to know if the IMU will still be so, whether it will be called TARES or otherwise. In the meantime we are also asking for an increase in advances! This is a fact that really leaves you bewildered. [[Applause from Senator Bisinella]] Everyone must be responsible for this by voting on the measure under consideration. Here we do not give structural solutions: we stop the holes saying that the blanket is wide and the holes do not exist. This means lying shamelessly to the truth of public accounts. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bisinella.]] Those familiar with the problems of public administration work know very well that debts are not paid and businesses are waiting for years. A few months ago we approved a partial measure, that today at our examination is another partial measure: we take the terms there without giving solutions. This is not part of the choice of a government that has defined itself - as it did at the beginning - of change and courage. So let us also be honest to say - as we see in the 5th Permanent Commission - that in order to finance these decrees, measures and laws that are a few months old or, in the best case, a few years old are being remodelled. This is not possible and must be told to the Italians. You cannot use a short blanket, discovering one part to cover another; otherwise - I repeat - it means lying. [[Applause from Senator Bisinella]] Minister, this is not a government that is ruling, this is a government that is under the pressure of finance, this is a government that is telling the Italians to pay taxes because the recovery is on the horizon. But what consolidation, if public accounts are more and more a chasm? Where is the recovery if the work does not start? [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] Let's be clear and clear: the recovery is done starting from the occupation, creating the job, not going to tell the people: you will be hired because the government says so. Businesses can't hire people because they don't have the job, not because there are ghosts that scare entrepreneurs. Our workers do not find employment in factories because there is no more work, because foreign competitors today make it impossible to compete for our system. Have the courage to take the money, paying even more taxes, then investing them to lower the cost of labor. Let us give this money to those who do productive activities: new jobs will be created. This is the system of the economy, this is the system that guarantees everyone a recovery, not an anti-cyclical system in which they are asked to pay more and more taxes to arrive at a reform that is not known when it will arrive. This morning we witnessed the approval of the decree empty prisons. We asked for an early examination of this measure, but where are the senators? The Senate Chamber is practically empty. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bisinella]] Today, we are four cats discussing the measure. When we asked for this this morning, everyone said: we have at heart the reform measures, especially from the economic ones. And yet now the benches are empty. CUOMO (PD). There's only two of you, too! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No, gentlemen, we are absent because we have decided so, in protest of this attitude. We do not share this way of doing the majority, and we want to say so to all Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bisinella]] Let us be honest in denouncing what is contained in the measure. There is talk of incentives for the new permanent recruitment of young people: young people are not given permanent solutions with this measure, they are given a small support, hoping that there will be hiring, hiring that will not come, because there is no work. Furthermore, we are talking about measures to support the Mezzogiorno: who does not agree? If the Mezzogiorno of Italy leaves, we will certainly all leave. Gentlemen, don't make fun of us! Here you forget to put coal in the locomotive Italy, in the regions of the North that drive the whole train! [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] We always say this: you have to be careful for all the wagons of the train, starting from the locomotive, because if you stop that there is no hope for anyone anymore. But let's go read the other articles of the decree-law. With regard to the postponement of the increase in VAT, as we have already said, we cannot find solutions by delaying the problems, but by addressing them. But there's more. There are very curious articles. Article 11, for example, refers to rail transport. Of course: invest in large infrastructure, as was done in the years ago when the great highway was built that united all of Italy, but these investments are really made. But when it comes to rail transport of the Campania Region, I wonder: what are the other Regions, daughters of a minor god? Is this the social justice that implements the State and the Government? [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] No, gentlemen, that's not how you operate. With regard to the increase in IRPEF and IRES, the President of the Council, Mr Letta, announces that we will not increase taxes in the newspapers. And why is there written in the decree-law: increase of the IRPEF deposit and IRES? That means making people pay more taxes! With the increase of the deposit on the accrued interest on current accounts and deposits then we went beyond the bottom of the barrel: we are scraping under the bottom of the barrel. This does not mean giving structural solutions, but trying to float the boat in some way hoping, in the meantime, to arrive in the autumn and pull off the electoral period. Next year there will be the Italian Presidency of the European Union and no one will have the courage to bring down the government. In this way, however, the Italians will go deeper. This is a country that needs courageous choices, it does not need a government that brings the bar of solutions a little further because it does not know how to intervene. [[Applause from Senator Biinella.]] We're not playing the game of the three tablets with the Italians. The impression, dear Minister Giovannini, is that you are playing with the pocket money and the future of the Italians, and we do not accept this. [[Applause from Senators Bisinella and Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u66	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure you are preparing to vote on, in which there is no trace of elements such as innovation, research, respect for work and for those who work, not only will it not bring employment (I fear, indeed, the opposite), but it will in fact make precarious work in our country a dangerous normality. It's not social cohesion! If there's one thing I know well, it's the world of work, the real world. I worked 25 years in the factory, including 16 years in an assembly line. That experience taught me that workers must be involved, respected, not isolated and reduced to passive workers, also because - I would like to remind you - they are the ones who really produce wealth, and they are often the only ones who really care about their work and their factory. That is why I would like to say to those who think that reducing the rights and dignity of the workplace can perhaps create work that is wrong. Only those who do not really know what it means to work under certain conditions can think, on the one hand, of asking the Commission to investigate safety at work and, on the other hand, of endorsing precarious and unrighteous work. How can one think that the two things are compatible? But can someone really think that a worker can defend himself and denounce any shortcomings on such a delicate subject, at such a dramatic time when the worker is aware that from the next day he can be sent home quietly by the master? Is it so difficult for you to imagine such a scenario? With the excuse of the crisis, and perhaps even with kind ways, the employer can ask to work ten hours a day, instead of eight, and without increased wages. I feel like I hear them, the usual things: "You know, there's a crisis," "I can hire another one that costs me less," and so on. But aren't those things that already happen in Italy? Or do we want to pretend we don't understand? That's why we at SEL think that this kind of work will bring nothing good. Besides, history proves it. Please, let's get the hypocrisy out of the way. It's time to end the exploitations. You tried to put workers and generations against it. You tried to say that the class struggle no longer existed or, however, that it was things of the past. But then you pretended not to notice that the class struggle still exists, but it is the masters of the workers, who, in turn, have remained alone, isolated. Finally, you tried to say that entrepreneurs and workers are on the same side, on the same boat. It is true that so many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who are before the workers, have suffered and paid for this crisis together with the workers, and not because of them or the workers themselves, but rather because of - it is worth remembering - the banks. The latter, despite the money taken by the ECB at zero rate, in fact never granted credit to small businesses. It is also true, however, that many entrepreneurs in Italy close the factories and go to relocate only for pure convenience. I don't think the workers have that chance. They cannot choose to go elsewhere and if it suits them; indeed, if it suits them, they will be able to take advantage of 750 euros of Cassa Integrazione. Now, I also hear that someone even wants to take it away, as if it were the workers' fault, the workers' fault. Just to say that, if the workers and the entrepreneurs have occasionally found themselves on the same boat, it is only because the workers used to row, and not for anything else. I should like to conclude by referring to one of the many amendments tabled by SEL and punctually rejected by this Government. I am referring to the amendment to Article 7 which called for workers to be able to decide on their status by referendum. It is the most natural thing in this world for those who love democracy, and it can also be achieved at zero cost, that is, during the hours provided for in the Workers' Statute, which are available to workers in the factory - it is a democracy - but perhaps to someone in here it bothers. So I ask you: what other category of citizens is being denied the opportunity to express themselves on their own terms as happens to workers? The workers are Italian citizens, so can they enjoy the protection of the laws and our Constitution, like all others? Can politics, which has been pretending nothing for years, continue to ignore these truths? If the rules that apply at the factory were extended to the whole of society, would it make sense to make politics? Do you think democracy still exists in this country under these conditions? Then tell me what is the fault of the workers, because I haven't understood it yet. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u68	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u69	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the situation on the Italian labour market has deteriorated considerably since the second half of 2011, after the relative retention of the number of people employed in the initial phase of the crisis. According to a survey by the Bank of Italy, in 2013 only one fifth of industrial companies and services with at least 20 employees expect an expansion of the number of their employees compared to the average levels of 2012 and half, instead, expect a contraction of this same number. Young people and young adults, who find it difficult to enter the world of work or stay there, both because of the fall in overall demand and because of the decline in the turnover of employment, are the greatest expense. In such a context it was necessary to act in favour of youth employment and it would have been desirable to be able to discuss today measures capable of having a profound impact on the recruitment dynamics of unemployed young people. Despite the Minister's laudable effort to intervene on a variety of aspects relating to employment and training at work, we must note that the economic incentives provided, both by way of delivery and by the total amount allocated, will have neutral or absolutely insignificant effects on employment balances. On a number of potential beneficiaries of nearly 3 million people, funding constraints allow the recruitment of up to 50,000 young workers per year. Better than nothing, you might say. If it were not, however, that the constraint imposed on a permanent worker (which is acceptable in principle), in the economic context we described earlier, suggests that the incentive will be exploited mainly by those companies which, due to their anti-cyclical economic development, would have taken on new labour, with or without incentives. Continuing this reflection, the incentive provided by the Government could therefore have the merit not so much to increase youth employment, but instead to promote the contract indefinitely as the main contractual form in the new recruitment of young people. In this case, too, it would be a very shared and commendable intention, but it is decidedly contradicted by the provisions of Article 7 of the same decree, where derogation is made by way of derogation, to remove regulatory constraints relating to more flexible employment contracts, in fact making it easier to misuse contractual forms of precariousness instead of more protected forms of employment. The reform of Minister Fornero's work, although questionable as much as we want, had its own logical structure: to amend Article 18 to make the employer less suspicious of the contract for an indefinite period and, at the same time, to introduce anti-competitive rules to hinder the distorted use of precarious contracts. And the data for the second half of 2012 show just signs of recomposition of the demand of the enterprises towards positions standard of dependent work to the detriment of the atypical contractual typologies, in line with the objectives of the reform. This reform, as structured by Minister Fornero, was already from the first reading to the Senate in the last legislature subject to changes by the parties that then supported the Monti Government and that today support the Letta Government, but it happens always in the perspective of weakening the protections provided for the workers. The measures provided for in Article 7, in perfect continuity with the neoliberal policies of the previous Government, not only counteract, further distorting, the structure of the reform implemented just a year ago, but also appear in contrast with the supposed intention of Article 1 of this same decree. The facilitations provided by the decree for permanent recruitment, already insufficient, as pointed out, risk to lose further effectiveness in a regulatory context that goes back to simplifying the use of atypical contractual forms. Aiming at flexible contracts or facilitating their use is certainly not the solution to solve the problems of our young people and even less the historical Italian dualism within our labour market between contracts that guarantee stability and those that generate precariousness. Young people need more than just a job, they need a career path that guarantees the implementation of their life plans and allows a substantial and constant contribution for social security purposes. Otherwise, young unemployed people will have the destiny of becoming precarious adults and later deprived pensioners. And even if, after years of difficulty and precariousness, they achieve a well-deserved professional success, they will certainly not be able to expect, as a result of the contributory method, to receive a vitality even remotely comparable to those golden pensions that the Constitutional Court considers untouchable, to the extent that it considers unconstitutional the levy of solidarity on pensions above 90,000 euros gross. On the one hand we have the untouchables with their acquired and safeguarded rights; on the one hand we have private and public managers with compensation hundreds of times higher than those of their colleagues employees: it is a continuously expanding scissors. On the other hand, we have the exodus, the unguarded, the young unemployed, the new poor. We do not want to discover that social injustice has become an acquired right of our society and that nothing can be done to combat it. We are convinced and confident that this is not the case. In order to change this trend, however, more courageous redistributive policies would be urgent and necessary, really aimed at reducing the social disparities present in society. Structural policies and no buffer and experimental measures such as social card. However, despite the comments made, we recognise that positive aspects are not lacking in this measure. We call on the majority to evaluate our amendments without prejudice, which in many cases have been proposed with the aim of improving what is already considered good. In particular, we ask our colleagues in the Democratic Party (there are few remaining, both physically and morally, and this is the most serious thing) to help us to amend Article 7, which makes what is done by the Fornero law worse and which further increases the flexibility of the labour market. We think it will be enough that you (always you of the Democratic Party) convince yourself for a half hour to be a center-left party. It starts with half an hour a day and then you can always increase. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u70	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I will talk about welfare, starting my speech with a question that goes around in many places: is welfare a problem today? Is that a problem for our society? The sustainability of our social protection system has so far been entrusted to a fundraising based on fiscal solidarity, solidarity among workers, on taxes on consumption. Poor, excluded, unemployed, sick, children, not self-sufficient receive help with solutions fed by these methods, in a logic, often merely administrative, of collecting and redistributing. But persistent and rising poverty rates condemn Italy, which also has an enviable system of social protection, among the countries less capable of transforming available resources into social value. The Constitution does not limit the potential of responsibility to merely collecting and distributing: injustices and inequalities go far beyond the redistributive capacity of the funds available. Therefore, it is not a matter of redistributing or reducing, but of making the capital available profit. And the institutions, after collecting resources with fiscal solidarity, must prevent them from being consumed by those entitled without duty. Colleagues of the League and colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, it is necessary, in our opinion, to reconsider the ability to regenerate, and it is a challenge that can be faced by all of us in the difficult conditions in which we find ourselves. You see, for us work is dignity, and it is also for those 67,000 people we have often mentioned, because every aide is a multiplier of value, and the examples are not lacking: the socially useful work in assisting the elderly still self-sufficient, the civil service, the multiple forms of work of social volunteering. We must therefore rethink the social state, rather, as a stable and universalistic service, making it lighter, but at the same time safeguarding it, using selective criteria in favour of the weakest. The objective can be achieved if it is reflected in the perspective of using social policies to restart growth, while reducing both social and health resources for the system of services to people further depresses the economy and worsens the living conditions of citizens. A beautiful example is given by the 12,000 social cooperatives present in Italy and their consortia, which employ 380,000 people, who, with their services, reach 6 million citizens. To severely reduce social policies and, more generally, welfare means to give up jobs spread throughout the territory and accessible to a large audience of young people and women, up to the disabled. In Italy, female employment is at 46 percent, 20 points less than male employment; it is lower than in almost all European countries, especially in the highest positions and for women with children: one in three, in fact, is forced to leave work at the birth of the first child, due to lack of services. The difference in pay, with equal education and experience, also reaches 30%. We know that one in five women does not work, and the unemployment rate in the South is very high. That is why we have tabled an amendment to encourage the recruitment of women. We cannot therefore reduce welfare and burden families, and therefore women, with cuts in full time in schools, non-self-sufficiency, personal services, children and families. Families must be given greater support; yes, families are considered to be the largest social shock absorber. On the subject of people with disabilities and work, I consider the agenda of the PD, of which I am first signatory, accepted in the Commission, to review the position expressed by the Department of the Civil Service on the suspension of the obligation to cover the reserve quota, i.e. the amount of disabled workers that employers subject to obligations must be employed. It is established by Law No 68 of 1999. There is a request to revise the opinion expressed by the Department of the Civil Service and to envisage, considering also the seriousness of the economic and social situation in our country, targeted, specific and urgent measures aimed at promoting the increase of stable employment of the protected categories, also to counter forms of marginalization aggravated by the current context of economic crisis. In this respect we have tabled amendment 5.0.1, which also provides for the allocation of important economic resources, so that no one is left behind; and I know that the Senators of the 5 Star Movement also agree that we often discuss these issues in the Commission. The policies of recent decades have taken little account of the social realities on the move, limiting themselves to managing the existing legal and economic instruments, without pushing on the lever of innovation and development. He didn't invest in performance. No more solutions have been sought to address the relationship between needs and resources. To more effective forms of human and social aid and development, ordinary welfare systems have been preferred, without a future perspective. On the contrary, the call for help increases every day and does not take account of it means not giving answers, accepting that suffering becomes despair, abandonment, conflict, distrust, which generate no prospects with all the consequences of the case. The role of the third sector is also important here. Having said that, the bill before the House today is an important first step for the Government to prepare urgent and simplified work measures, particularly for young people, and for social cohesion, in line with the policies and initiatives taken at European level and with the economic and social situation facing our country. It is also important as provided for in Article 3, the so-called experimental purchasing card, which complements the social card and represents an important measure against the fight against child poverty, starting with the most marginal families in relation to the labour market. We recall that in the Annual Report of the Childhood and Adolescence Supervisor, presented on 10 June last, it is said that in Italy they live in relative poverty of 1,822,000 minors, 17.6 percent of children and adolescents. Seven percent of minors then live in absolute poverty. Experimentation of the experimental purchasing card meets the phenomenon described with the intention of overcoming it. It consists of a monetary transfer reserved for poor families living in the 12 municipalities with more than 250,000 inhabitants. Senator Puglia, this is not "fake," this is a concrete help. The effectiveness of the programme shall be measured by comparing the results achieved by the beneficiary group. Article 3 of the draft law in question provides for an extension, within the limits of 100 million euros for 2014 and 67 million euros for 2015, to all the other Municipalities of the Regions of the Mezzogiorno (Abruzzo, Basilicata, Calabria, Campania, Molise, Puglia, Sardinia and Sicily). Article 7 then concerns the accessory work, and therefore the possibility of vouchers setting conditions, methods and amounts of good times... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u72	Senator Favero, please finish the sentence and deliver the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u73	FAVERO (PD). It is expected, among other things, that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy by decree can establish specific conditions, modalities and amounts of good times in view of the particular and objective social conditions of specific categories of persons related to the state of disability, detention, drug addiction or use of social shock absorbers for which a figurative contribution is provided, used in projects promoted by public administrations. Mr President, I would ask that the remaining part of my speech be added to the Minutes of the sitting. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u74	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u75	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again debating new and urgent measures to support employment, especially youth; a measure that is no longer deferred and imposed by the economic and employment crisis that is affecting our country. Allow me, however, to make a few thoughts and highlight some aspects. For the umpteenth time an omnibus measure has been prepared, that is to regulate with the usual approximation sectors and subjects absolutely heterogeneous, with the result of a legislative text that, like many others, said rules that will compromise the delicate and complex balances of the legal institutions in force. It appears to be an obligatory institutional measure, which makes the Gelmini reform more pronounced, and not an intervention in favour of those in difficulty. For example, the objective difficulties of the measure in regulating interventions in favour of young people attending second grade secondary schools cannot be stressed. In fact, the text does not provide for rules of association with Article 4 of Law No 53 of 28 March 2003, and the subsequent legislative decree No 77 of 15 April 2005, concerning general rules relating to school-work alternation. Article 4 (2) of Legislative Decree No 77 of 2005, Minister, prescribes the following: The periods of learning through work experience are an integral part of the personalized training paths aimed at achieving the educational, cultural and professional profile of the course of study and the general and specific learning objectives established at national and regional level. The objective of Legislative Decree No 77 is therefore to have students acquire, from the fifteenth year of age, with experiences in the world of work, only some professional skills together with others not necessarily linked to a specific profession or discipline, but expendable in different contexts and for educational purposes not comparable to those that are intended to regulate with paragraphs 4, 7, 10 and 13 of Article 2 of the current text in the Chamber. It regulates school and not work, it favours training and not integration into the world of work. In the draft law n. 890, instead, we want to confuse the period of study with structured interventions for apprenticeships and with the adaptation of professional skills for people who have nothing to do with school benches. It is perhaps forgotten that Italy has been suffering from employment for many years now and still discussing in this House a problem, transformed over time into a real social emergency, means, gentlemen, certifying the failure of the policies of support for employment put in place in the last decade, indeed in the last twenty years, by governments of any political color placed at the helm of the country. The unemployment rate stands at 12.2%, 0.4 percentage points higher than in December and 2.1 points higher in the last 12 months. Innumerable speeches have been spent on the necessary conversion of our country to a more flexible labour market, an evolution presented as propedeutica to the dizzying and immediate increases in jobs. The reality that has become apparent in recent years, however, is totally opposite and can be summed up in a single word: precariousness; precariousness of the job that inevitably turns into precariousness of life. But paradoxically, with the terrible economic crisis that we are experiencing, those who have a precarious occupation can also call themselves lucky compared to those who do not have a job or, as too often happens (even in these Palaces), has lost it. Among the fifteen to twenty-four years old, there are 655,000 job seekers and represent 10.9 percent. In this age group, the unemployment rate, i.e. the impact of the unemployed on the total number of those employed or seeking, is 38.7%. Alarming data that can no longer be ignored, all the more so since in the percentage are considered, in increasing number, also adolescents. There is an increase in early school leaving, not only in the Mezzogiorno, but throughout the country, as well as a decrease in university enrolments. That is really worrying about culture. However, there are no structural measures this time either, aimed at ensuring real and greater employment, but only at palliative measures, as all of you, ladies and gentlemen, have explained. In the first days of his term of office, the President of the Council, Mr Letta, referred to the creation of 200,000 jobs. Now, assuming the use of all the available funds provided for by the measure, it is far from those numbers and also from the 100,000 places to which Minister Giovannini referred as a result of these measures. In fact, the appropriations provided for are 26 million for two years plus 28 million for 2015 for self-entrepreneurship and self-employment and as many millions for the implementation of social infrastructure projects and the enhancement of public goods in the Mezzogiorno, presented by young people and those belonging to disadvantaged groups. Finally, only EUR 56 million in three years for training grants for young people aged 18 to 29 who do not work, study or participate in any training activity, but resident or domiciled in the regions of the Mezzogiorno. The measure also contains measures to reduce labour costs, until the resources available are exhausted, in order to recruit people under thirty years of age. Reductions may have a maximum duration of 18 months (in the case of new recruitments) or 12 months (in the case of changes in fixed-term contracts to permanent contracts). Past experience shows us, however, that temporary recruitment incentives are completely ineffective because they create few jobs and benefit only companies that would make these recruitments. Then another question arises: which employer decides to create real permanent posts, on the basis of a public contribution that may not be paid, given the limited availability of resources? Beyond these critical issues that I have highlighted, I could not help noting in the text the lack of references to a territory as martyred as that of Abruzzo, with a very high unemployment rate, to the point that the rapporteur had to add, at the end of the work in the Commission, a clarification, which was not present in the original version, listing expressly the regions receiving incentives. With this last amendment you have shown that you are able to go beyond the unnecessary runways. We hope that the path we have taken will continue to be crossed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u77	Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u78	Mr President, Minister, Deputy Minister, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to examine a decree-law which, in the intentions of the Government and of the whole majority, should restore oxygen to a heart-broken labour market. Some benefits will actually come for employment: the new rules on forward contracts will certainly favour greater fluidity of the encounter between demand and supply of work; the zero contribution cost for youth work will improve the accounts of the companies that are hiring workers in this age group (although it will hardly encourage other companies - on this I agree with Senator Blundo - to do the same in the near future, since the provision is destined to run out too soon and those who arrive late will not be able to enjoy it). But I believe that everyone in this House agrees that these benefits are and will indeed be too small in view of the seriousness of the crisis that our labour market is going through. Our companies are working in a situation of extreme uncertainty about the near future, not about the medium or the long term: uncertainty about whether and when there will be the reversal of trend, the exit from the recession; uncertainty about the trends in world giant economies such as China and India; even concern about the future of the continental monetary economic system of which we are part. Those who hire a person today are much more uncertain than they were ten years ago are on the verge of whether the job to be done to that person in a year or two will still be there or not. The Fornero Act, which entered into force just a year ago, had the merit, not at all secondary, of essentially establishing a "tariff" for individual dismissal dictated by economic reasons: from twelve to twenty-four months of the last pay. But even the minimum cost of twelve months for the dissolution of the relationship, one or two years after its establishment, involves an increase of 50 or 100 percent of the total wage cost. It can well be understood that entrepreneurs are very reluctant to take this risk, even when they need to increase staff. Just as we can well understand that two years ago the European Central Bank, committed to rescuing our public debt, asked us to move the protection of the worker from safety into the relationship, with a high cost of separation, to security in the labour market. The high cost of separation in the labour relationship is exactly what Marco Biagi called the "normative incentive" to establish regular working relationships for an indefinite period; a disincentive whose effect is magnified by the mortal uncertainty that characterizes the current economic situation in our country. And it is precisely here that we should take action today to facilitate recruitment, even if only with a measure of a cyclical, experimental nature, limited to the time necessary to get out of the tunnel of the crisis. We should be able to tell entrepreneurs: As long as we are not out of the recession, hire all the workers you need, without concern for the near future: for two or three years, if things go wrong you will be allowed to dissolve these relationships without judicial risks and with a modest but well predetermined cost of separation. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Liuzzi]] That would be a breath of oxygen invigorating all over the labour market. And it would be a zero-cost measure for the treasury, which we could adopt without the distress in which we had to force the economic incentive provided by the decree under consideration for the recruitment of young people. Offered with such (and justified) austerity, this economic incentive will hardly lead hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs to proceed with the recruitment they would need with an indefinite contract, if they fear that the situation will change for the worse within one or two years (and we have seen that this fear is legitimate, justified). Such an incentive would have an invigorating impact on our labour market much wider and stronger than a limited economic incentive over time. Marco Biagi also observed that the regulatory incentive could be much more effective than the economic incentive. Now, what keeps us from adopting - I repeat: experimentally and with limited effects to the terrible economic situation that the country is going through - this very reasonable measure at zero cost? Certainly not the concern to deprive young people of the prospect of a more stable employment relationship: today, in a situation where the country is losing 30,000 jobs per month (1,000 per day!) and where youth unemployment is almost 40%, 99 out of 100 young people would seem to touch the sky with one finger if for a three-year period they were offered the possibility of an indeterminate relationship regulated in this way. They would certainly not be the counterinterested in such a measure. Supporters of the unchangeable, even experimentally, of the old protection of the stability of work oppose only one argument, only one, there are no others: that of the inclined plan. We cannot touch, even experimentally, the protection of the stability of work, because we know where it begins, but we do not know where it ends. This is the only argument against which, in recent days, we have heard repeated, here in Parliament and outside, by colleagues and militants of the Democratic Party and by trade unionists of different orientations. Now, I remind them that, from what world is the world, the subject of the inclined plane, of slippery slope, is the battlehorse not of the progressives, but of the conservatives of every creed and every observance. From what world is world, however, it is precisely of those who work for progress, in all fields, the experimental method: we try, we see what happens, if the results are unsatisfactory we change the way, otherwise we consolidate and generalize what we have experienced. But it is with this pragmatic method, with the method of try and go, not with the ideological contrasts, that we will be able to change face to face to face to face to face to face to face to face to face to face to face. In fact, at the beginning of the debate in the Commission we had the impression that something was moving, on this ground, in the Democratic Party. We had this hope for an amendment tabled by Mr Ghedini, which provided for a substantial liberalization of the term contract in the first thirty-six months of the relationship between the company and the worker. It was a strange opening, because in that way, in order not to touch a comma of the discipline of the contract indefinitely, it would have produced the effect of making the assumption absolutely normal. I noted this in the debate in the Commission, noting that, in homage to the prohibition to touch, albeit marginally, the discipline of dismissal, the Democratic Party seemed even willing to ensure that the indefinite contract completely disappeared for the first three years of the relationship between the enterprise and the worker, systematically replaced by the term contract. But, even if it were for this paradoxical aspect, it would still have been a useful measure in the very serious situation we are in. Instead, even this shy opening is totally lost in the street. The Minister for Labour postponed his speech on this subject to September, hoping for a joint opinion from the social partners. This choice, which seems to correspond to the appeal of the Secretary of the CISL Bonanni, so that the task of correcting the rigidities of our labour law is left to the social partners. The hope is that the system of industrial relations will overcome the difficulties which have prevented it in the last two years to exercise its prerogatives in this field. But it must be clear that, even in September, if there is nothing in fact on the ground of the understanding between the social partners, the work of simplifying legislation and removing regulatory disincentives to permanent recruitment cannot be further postponed. On this point we ask - even with an agenda presented in Article 1 of the Decree-Law - for a precise commitment by the Government. In this regard, it must be said that a serious emergency in the emergency is the hundreds of thousands of cooperation relationships qualified as self-employed, but in reality of dependent work, of which the Fornero law rightly requires migration to the area of regular subordinate work. The problem arises from the fact that the Fornero law has done the work only in half, giving effect to the rules laid down in this matter by the Biagi law, but not outlining, on the other hand, a sufficiently flexible working relationship, removed from excessive regulatory harnesses, in order to be able to welcome in a universal way the whole great world of dependent work. Today the migration from the area of autonomous collaboration to that of subordinate work leads to an increase of cost for the enterprise, with equal gross hourly pay, between 40 and 50%, in addition to all the greater rigidity that characterizes the area of subordinate work than that of self-employment. This being the case, it is clear that we are facing a crossroads: either we go back to the swamp of dualism between protected and unprotected in the labour market, repealing or suspending the norms of contrast to the abuse of the autonomous collaborations, contained in the Fornero law; or of that law we bring to completion the project, making available to workers and enterprises - at least in the economic, experimental - a subordinate employment relationship that does not involve the economic and regulatory shock of which I spoke a moment ago. The amendments on the zeroing of the impact of labour costs on IRAP and the drastic reduction in the cost of ending the employment relationship indefinitely at its initial stage, which we presented to the Commission, and which we had to withdraw in the face of the opposite determination that we were opposed to. Complete the work started with the law of July 2011, or go back: this is the alternative we are faced with, the choice we have to make, if we want to solve the emergency of those hundreds of thousands of false-autonomous collaborations that we risk losing in the street to 90 percent. This is the choice that we do not make today, with this decree. We do not do it, because we are paralyzed by the taboo of the intangibility of the discipline of the regular working relationship indefinitely. Too bad. It's a missed opportunity. The hope is that at least the debate that has opened on this occasion will help us not to miss the next opportunity, which we hope will come next September. One last notation. This law is still born under the sign of complication and illegibility for the great audience of those who are called to apply it. It is all written by the professionals in an abstruse language, a heart attack of references to other laws, that only by the employees themselves is understandable (perfectly online, for this aspect, with the precedents of the related work of 2010 and the Fornero law of 2012). This cannot but constitute a very serious prejudice to the effectiveness of the law itself. The European Union tells us this with the Decalogue for Smart Regulation of November 2009: a rule that to be understood requires the consultant cannot have the virtue to directly influence the culture, the behaviour of millions, indeed in this case tens of millions of people. The extreme complication of our labour legislation - and not only its old-fashioned content - is also one of the greatest problems for the functioning of our labour market, for its transparency, for its openness to foreign entrepreneurship, which our country would need so much. On this, as on several other political-programmatic chapters, we ask the Government to read in the near future a blow of kidneys. We ask him for the courage to design a clear, incisive and light labour law at the same time, capable of reducing and not increasing transaction costs between companies and workers; capable, in its simplicity, of being truly universal, as our labour law today is not, if it is true that it applies only to half of the employees in our productive fabric. I am referring to a labour right that is able to speak not only to labour consultants and trade unionists, but directly to entrepreneurs and workers, who have the right not to know anything about labour law and, nevertheless, the right to understand what the labour law says; a labour right that is able to speak not only to insiders, but also, and above all, to outsiders, not only to older generations, but also, and above all, to new generations. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi and Sciascia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u79	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u80	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-77.ana.u81	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 25 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.12 p.m.
