ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure on issues relating to public debt reduction measures and taxation and labour policies, to which the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Letta, will respond. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on. So let us turn to questions on issues relating to public debt reduction measures and taxation. The senators may ask the President of the Council of Ministers their questions for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u6	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, apart from the global financial crisis, much of Italy's problems are in public expenditure and public debt. All governments so far have tried to reduce spending by linear cuts, while having a targeted impact on unproductive expenditure would impose radical changes in the budgetary system of the state, and in recent decades no one has ever succeeded. But today I want to ask you something about public debt: a debt of EUR 2 000 billion, equal to 130 percent of GDP, which has accumulated largely since 1981 to date. If the resources we have thrown into the public debt had invested them in infrastructure, innovation, school, university, scientific research, security, modernization of networks, today we would be a richer and stronger country. Now we cannot suddenly break down such a large mountain of billions of debt, but it is necessary to ask the Government what medium-term strategy Italy serves, if they agree to virtuous corrections year after year of public spending, if it is necessary to focus on development, if it agrees an ambitious plan of privatizations or a mix of all these solutions. There is a related question: how can we reconcile this with the commitment to reducing public debt to 60% of GDP in twenty years? We cannot ask you for miracles that cannot be done, Mr Letta, so we are simply asking you to show us the way, the strategy and the time you think it takes to reduce and reduce our public debt.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u9	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask you two questions on strategic issues of our country's economic policy. Days ago in this House, speaking of a very sensitive subject that is very dear to my party, the abolition of the IMU on the first house, she referred to reforms and first confirmed her commitment and attention on this subject, and we have taken note of this happily, and at the same time referred to structural reforms of our system of functioning of the State and its expenditure, in order to arrive positively at the solution of this very sensitive topic. We would therefore like to have, in this first phase, some anticipation of the lines that your Government intends to follow and in relation to the assets, topics and chapters according to which structural reforms will be carried out, without prejudice of course to sensitive issues such as research and themes that affect the social security of our country and its serenity. At the same time another hot topic has been engaging our country's politics for many years, perhaps too many. I am referring to the disposal of our assets, which are looking at a substantial, I would say almost traumatic, reduction of our public debt. He's been talking about it for a long time. Famous securitisation has been carried out, albeit not effectively. It is a suspended theme that I would define as the great unfinished reform of our country. Mr President, I would like to hear your opinion on the bestowal of all our available assets, and therefore not functional to the efficiency of our state. I remember that we have so much of it, even in desueto, and even in a very bad state of maintenance. We could talk about the transfer of this stock of assets to a company that can take care of its enhancement. There is no doubt that many properties, for their destination, have no value but, through a system of destination changes with service conferences, could be valued and made attractive on the market. I remember a precedent during the Berlusconi Government regarding the disposal of military property, for which it was planned the possibility of change of destination and their placement on the market with more attractive prices. The realization of this project - the conferral of part of the available assets of the State to a society that can valorize it through changes of destination with conferences of services and therefore in immediate times - and the contextual possibility of issuing securities and bonds guaranteed from the real estate, that therefore do not create public debt, could affect the reduction of our public debt, that is one of the heaviest of Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u12	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, Mr Letta, it is now well known that Italy, because of its high public debt, is committing large enough shares to pay interest. But, in order to achieve this, we would first of all like to note that, from the third quarter of 2008 to the first quarter of this year, in percentage terms, Italian public debt has actually increased to a lesser extent than that of other European countries such as France, Germany and Austria. In addition, it should be noted that, in relation to GDP, our public debt is among those that grew to a lesser extent from the beginning of the crisis until the third quarter of 2011, when the austerity policy was imposed on us by the European institutions, despite having at the time one of the best primary surpluses. It must be pointed out that our debt-to-GDP ratio, at that point, is beginning to grow. It is for this reason that we are pushing more in the direction of this factor - therefore GDP - and that the Movement repeatedly calls for an expansionary policy that re-launches the economy, especially in order to reduce the tax burden strongly, starting from the tax wedge, intervention that for us, to be significant, should lead to a reduction of at least five points of the level of the wedge itself. By the way, we have already filed a bill for the abolition of the IRAP in the Chamber of Deputies; we have also indicated here any cover that we have suggested to your Government. Similarly, for expansionary policies, we have proposed here a motion, on behalf of my colleague Mr Bulgarelli, for the payment of the entire stock of public administration debt to companies. We also tabled a motion on the spending review. I would like to quote what was written just yesterday by our reference blog, in which it is said that, since waste is everywhere around us and being the spending review a bad slogan never applied, we have introduced this motion, identifying the expenditure that can be attacked and trying to commit its Government to an approach that is different from the current one. We ask you, therefore, what concrete measures your Government will want to take, given that, however, it is evident from its actions, until now, that it will still move in compliance with the deficit-GDP ratio and, therefore, how it will want to continue in reducing the amount of public debt.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u15	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the enormous Italian public debt costs EUR 90.37 billion, i.e. six points of GDP, every year to the State budget. This is the poisoned legacy of thirty years of bad politics, which has dumped on future generations a huge boulder, draining its future. It is a boulder which, as you know, stifles our economy and prevents a radical reduction in the tax burden, conditioning any public policy. Now the fiscal compact requires Italy to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio to 60% in twenty years, but I believe that, in order to revive our economy, we need to act much earlier. Then I ask you whether your Government has already prepared an extraordinary plan for debt reduction and what this plan consists of: whether it includes realistic and credible actions for the disposal of real estate, which, up to now, has never borne much fruit; whether it includes disposals of holdings held by the State and the local authorities, which could, in this sense, contribute to the reduction of debt; whether it understands, as has been suggested by several parties, an extraordinary intervention on assets and within what time horizon this plan will have to start and finish. With regard to the disposal of assets, in particular (if this is included in the plan), we would be interested to understand how she intends to prevent the privatization of companies and companies from being paid in debt by the companies themselves and, therefore, how we can avoid mistakes made in the past with sad cases such as Telecom, Alitalia or Rome Airports, which have substantially impoverished our industrial assets.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u18	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us touch on a subject which seems to be a sideline of public finance, but which, in fact, we believe is particularly important. We have seen how over the years they have increasingly taken part, within public finance, in the proceeds from gambling (in this sense, with an increasing that, even, has reached 450 percent over the last eight years). Today we are talking essentially, President Letta, of a turnover of 76 billion euros, with revenues that derive to the State up to 14 billion euros. It is clear that we are in a situation of crisis economy, with families in crisis and, therefore, with family finances in crisis, and we ask ourselves a question: to what extent can it be accepted, even from a moral point of view, what part of the money needed to give stability to public finance come from a source so difficult to justify, from a moral and also economic point of view as gambling? We believe that, in this sense, there must surely be attention on the part of the Government, and we are also interested in understanding what are the philosophies that will be in public finance in the coming years, taking into account, among other things, that there is also talk of revenues that derive from a situation that is far from defined. Gambling, in fact, has an obvious part and a large part submerged, and the latter, submerged as tax evasion but in an even more harmful way, we are equally concerned. We know that this issue is particularly felt among all political parties. In this sense, I believe there can also be attentions that go beyond ideological fences. Above all, attention must be paid to one aspect: that of slot machines, which are very widespread within our cities and in our countries, and they also enter people's pockets in a subtle way. I believe that, in this sense, knowing from the Government what your opinion on this would be important for all citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u21	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, 130.3 percentage points of the debt-to-GDP ratio and a black economy estimated by many sources at 17.4% are two recent figures to the honours of the news, together with a very strong tax burden. Many parties are trying to find solutions along the paths that have now been tested and that have not produced much in recent years, so much so that GDP falls systematically, does not recover, and is one of the reasons why the debt-to-GDP ratio remains worrying. We ask ourselves, also because of the fact that measures such as those relating to work and the so-called decree of doing are being examined by Parliament, if it is not the case to start thinking strategies different from those that have traditionally been pursued to date, involving in a more choral way the whole country, large parts of our Italy, starting with the Regions. And we ask if it is not thought that the real estate, instead of selling it, is much more useful to put it to use through projects that extend the economy starting from the productive vocations of the places or from the valorization of the productive resources of which this country is rich.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u24	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my question concerns taxation. Many companies, particularly those operating in textiles and mechanics, because of the excessive cost of labour in our country have relocated production in other countries, especially in Eastern Europe. This has led to the loss of a large number of jobs, but it has also put in difficulty many small craft companies linked to this type of production. Added to this are other situations, such as those in the transport sector, where Italian and Italian workers are dependent on foreign companies, often framed as secondary offices or in any case directly linked to the Italian company. In this case not only are taxes on income from employees not paid in Italy, but also social security and accident insurance. Even if I realize the difficulty that this entails, taking note of the effort that this Government is appreciatively carrying forward to three hundred sixty degrees, I ask you what you intend to do to promote the return of the companies that have brought their headquarters abroad or have transferred branches of activity there, not only to fight the heavy loss of jobs, but also the loss of that know-how necessary for the future development of economic areas that were, and still may be, strategic for our country. I would also ask you whether you intend to carry out a serious survey of the phenomenon of workers employed in foreign companies and to provide for measures to encourage the regularisation of these positions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u27	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, I should like to thank you for that, partly because I am taking my consideration of the British Parliament in this way, and because it is an euphemistic term to break down the word which perhaps would be better placed at the moment, which is envy. And I think I'm talking to you, just looking at you and not the entire government, so I guess I'm less on television and more in a Parliament like the English one. The consideration I make in this regard, and it makes it easy for me to make it the circumstance that others have not done so, is that on the deficit-GDP ratio as a fraction you can work either on the numerator or on the denominator. As far as working on the numerator is concerned, the other colleagues' request is that I agree with the need for clarification. I am referring to the cut-off of the dry branches, unnecessary expenditure, the elimination of corruption or what has been mentioned in recent days, that is to say that the emergence of black would favour not only the increase of revenues, therefore the decrease of the numerator, but also the raising of the denominator, therefore with a double benefit compared to others. Another consideration is simply to increase GDP. In the past, and also in the present, as in the decree of doing, there have always been so many interventions that have had this presumption without however that the same have produced great results, neither in the past nor in the present. Another consideration, which I have made before, is to try to promote work abroad, not through emigration but through export. In order to export better and more, it is necessary to intervene on the exchange rate. The consideration I would like to make here today is that the United States of America is billing $15,000 billion and exporting $1,700 billion. Germany exports 35% of 3,000 billion euros in turnover. However, it must be borne in mind that if Europe exports 1,700 billion euros to the external market, Germany achieves the prevailing share of its exports on the European Union's internal market, not on the EU's external market: so also on Italy. But if we do not favour Italian, French and Spanish exports, that increase in GDP, which would support the possibility of encouraging German exports, will in time decrease. The only way is to intervene on the exchange rate of the euro, and every time the exchange rate has moved half a point, Italian exports have increased by 5%. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Letta.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow senators for the issues they have raised and for the way in which they have been put. I begin to respond immediately, since the themes are many and the minutes available oblige me to be concise and precise. I start from the argument that was the basis of the question posed by Senator Lezzi of the 5 Star Movement, that is to say the fact that, although our country has experienced a deep crisis in the last five years, it has seen its public debt grow in percentage less than that of other European countries, which have instead experienced a much greater debt growth than ours. This fact, which is certainly a positive fact for Italy, shows that our country has finally managed to build a structural situation of public finances, which I believe is one of the great achievements of these years: a conquest that we must absolutely maintain. In fact, thanks to the fact that our debt has increased so little, we have been able to get out of the excessive deficit procedure opened by the European authorities in a simpler way than would have happened if we had instead had a higher debt growth. Today the Ministry of Economy, the Accounting, our ability to keep public accounts in order allow us to hold a situation, as I see it, extremely worrying on the other side of the story. We all know that the debt-to-GDP ratio has a numerator and a denominator: we hold on to the numerator but we go wrong to the denominator. That's what Senator Uras and I used to say. The underlying theme of this story is the lack of growth, a question on which our country, unfortunately, is experiencing a structural fatigue, and it is the great theme on which we have to work. Today we are in a position to endure the difficult conditions and adversity in which we find ourselves thanks to a careful management of public finance, due to the choices that the Italians and the previous Governments have made. But we're not gonna get out of this if we don't get back on the road to growth. Therefore, I believe that the essential element, with respect to the issues that have been raised, is a strategy that can only be multiple, that is, a strategy played primarily on pushing the denominator. Pushing the denominator means being able to convince companies to invest and create jobs. This will be one of the main objectives of the law of stability, it has already been one of the objectives of the decree on work, the extraordinary intervention for total decontribution and therefore the incentive to hire young people, which today is operational. I invite all those who are listening to these words of mine to note that our country today has a condition of fiscal favor in order to hire young people who do not have equals in Europe: I think it is a absolutely positive condition for the next eighteen months, which must be taken. We would like to extend the tax incentive, in the law of stability, to other aspects. Senator Monti is present here: the Government of Senator Monti has introduced the so-called ACE, that is, an instrument of fiscal incentive that pushes companies to capitalize on, to invest. I believe that this element, linked to the fact that corporate tax should be pushed to look far away and not just to the short, to the immediate benefits, is the second major chapter. It is our intention to upload on this topic and try to develop strongly. It is obvious that growth policies are many and also have to do with issues that have to keep many different aspects together. First, the question of the contrast of interests was mentioned (and I take back what was previously said by Senator Ferrara) because in the end this is the theme, that is the fact that our country is a country in which black is so high, black is so important. The black economy must be fought through policies that must be of conflict, sanctions, but also policies that stimulate, through the contrast of interests, the emergence. Here I claim the fact (and I use the space that this House allows me to speak to the Italian senators and citizens) that an extraordinary semester of fiscal incentive is under way as our country has never had on the subject of the so-called ecobonus. It is a period in which 65% of tax incentives to renovate homes through all the instruments of incentives and energy efficiency can allow companies to work, to set up their homes in such a way that they then have energy saving, and to do everything by bringing out. In fact, as you know, in order to have the tax incentive you have to show the tax receipt, which is the essential element. So it's a story that has three advantages with one shot and these six months of extraordinary incentive we hope will help our growth and therefore our GDP. Therefore, there are many initiatives, some already put into practice, others contained in the decrees already approved and which are already law (I mentioned some of them), others that we intend to include above all in the law of stability for the 2014 budget. But it is clear that, alongside the policies to restart the growth of our country, it is necessary to continue on the line of rigour, and I say this knowing that it is a phrase that does not earn many consents. In the experience of each one of us, in the family, when their children ask for things for which it is right to say no, the good father of the family answers no. I think it is right that we should know that public finances must remain in order, because the 3% issue, which seemed taboo, is the condition that allows us today, for example, to have the extra flexibility that will allow us, in the 2014 budget, to include new productive investments that Brussels, the European Union will allow us precisely because we have been virtuous. I believe that this is also an important sign of understanding on the part of Europe, that it is not a rigour, a blind austerity: that would be wrong; it has been applied too many times and, rightly, this has led to a bad image of Europe. The European line is changing, and we must change it. Our Government is working with this Parliament and Italy has been working for a long time to change the European Union's line on these issues. We must demonstrate that the virtue in the accounts must bring advantages, that is, it must bring the possibility, as it will be in the 2014 budget, of having an extra flexibility and resources on the topic of productive investments that will be infrastructures, that will therefore be cuts to the zavorre that our country carries with respect to production, investments, to work; all issues that are part of that piece of strategy of medium-long term to which Senator Zanda referred. Alongside all this, of course, the spending review is the essential element. We must take action on unproductive expenditure: we must ensure that public finances are a holding for which nothing of public resources is thrown away, so that every public resource we know where it goes and all together we decide that it is right to be spent. Alongside this, however, there is a need for operations that have to do with the debt stock. Many of the speeches have focused on this issue, such as Senator Lanzillotta's speech and President Schifani's speech, and it is clear that our intention is to implement growth policies and thus to increase the denominator, and to implement policies to respect expenditure and not increase unproductive public expenditure. But next to this, there is a need for a third chapter, which is the intervention on debt, which is essential, on chapters that have to do with one of the hypotheses to which President Schifani referred, which is to study: the hypothesis of a valorization through the "boxes" that are in a position to value, and then to allocate, of course in the best way, because - is right Senator Lanzillotta - no one wants to retrace the roads of privatizations done badly, which have been badly done in other countries and in some cases also in Italy. The will is to enhance and intervene not only on the enormous public heritage of our country, but also on national public participations and on the participations of local authorities, both because there is need for efficiency, and because there is need, on this topic, to allocate to the best the resources that we have available. This is the sum of all the speeches we are going to make. With regard to the other issues that have been raised, I take back what Senator Candiani said: a law passed at the end of the last legislature, Law No. 189 of 2012 to address the phenomenon of ludopathy, has created an instrument that is today allocated to the Agency of Customs and Monopolies, which has now begun to work and which is fundamental to pull out all those data and those elements that I am convinced will allow this Parliament, with a large and wide sharing, to identify the ways of contrast in order to try to make less strong those pathological phenomena to which you, Senator Candiani, referred, and which are certainly very complex phenomena. Finally, in response to Senator Panizza, we in the autumn, as I said in this House the other day, intend to approve, first, and apply, then (of course this Parliament will approve, change and discuss on this subject) a great plan, which will be called "Destination Italy", to widen the possibility of attracting investment in Italy, so make possible also the returns referred to by Senator Panizza, that is to say, it is to let know that our country attracts and wants to attract investments, because it is attracting investments that we are then able to give work. I say this very frankly: if there are important Italian brands that find foreign investments that make them stronger in the markets, I am not scandalized for this. The word "italianity" is a word that today needs to be conceived in a much wider sense. We need to create jobs, create jobs, create growth in our country. If we do so, then we are in a position to deal with public finance in a different way. In fact - in conclusion again, what Senator Lezzi said - we can say here today, and probably will be amazed even the listeners at home, that our debt has grown less than that of other countries. But the effort that our families are making, despite our debt has grown less than others, shows that the problem is structural: that is, a debt stock that we have been dragging for a long time and that, as Mrs Lanzillotta said before, costs us every year EUR 90 billion just to keep him alive. An impossible figure, which makes each of us every day look at the fateful and dramatic figure of interest rates, because if the rate exceeds 5-6 percent, debt service costs hundreds of millions more to us as state taxpayers. That is why this is the great theme: the long-term strategy, to which Senator Zanda referred, which will be made up of some chapters that are already law; a profound continuity with choices made up to now; choices that we will put in the law of stability; above all, continuity in virtue, which is the only way to achieve results of credibility for large investors and to actually create, in our country, that growth and that ability to attract investments and generate jobs that represent the only way out of the crisis. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and GAL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u29	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u32	ZANDA (PD). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you very much for coming to the Senate and for the attention and detail with which you have responded to our speeches. Public debt is a very serious problem. The figures we have heard tell us how much it also weighs on the development of our country. I would particularly like to thank you for pointing out the need for such a large and substantial issue to need an overall strategy, in which all the elements have their weight: continuity with the virtuous policy of rigour; the investments needed for development; employment policy; the disposals, where they can be done in a healthy way, which can create some reserves, a little more margin, but above all become a further flywheel for development.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u35	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am pleased, although, if possible, we will be talking about the IMU on the occasion of the next question time, because there has been no way of listening to it on the subject, but I realize that there will be time, also because it is a sensitive issue, which is likely to be addressed in the context of the law of stability. On the rest, I have noted with pleasure that this proposal for the management of the disposal of real estate is being studied and I have also seen that the Minister for Economic Affairs was absent in this regard. I believe that this path is the only one that can be managed, with intelligence, lucidity, but with determination. I believe that we must use the experience of other procedures that have not been successful, while I quote the rule that has allowed, during the previous Government's financial precedents, to release part of the assets of the military property, also affecting the municipalities on the change of destination of use and assigning to them, once this condition has been fulfilled, some of the proceeds derived from the sale of those goods. Therefore, the involvement of local authorities in the fact that these assets of the State can actually obtain a new destination, and therefore a valorization, with an interest of the local authority, which of course cannot fail to keep in mind the public interest, and therefore the interest of urban planning. So, you change yes, but in tune with the management of the heritage and the urbanistic direction, the development of the cities.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u38	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, that is exactly what I wanted to say. We have managed to keep the public debt under control, to calm it down in the face of the rest of Europe, but we have not had, in the face of all these sacrifices, a strong position of its Government in Europe, which has only succeeded in achieving very few successes (among other things) such as this "zero comma" of displacement that can be found in the annual ratio of deficit to GDP for investments that will, however, have to follow the criteria dictated by Europe. We would like you to choose a different, more decisive instrument to encourage companies to invest. Among other things, you used this expression: "to convince companies to invest". We should help and support businesses. We have a country on its knees, which cannot be convinced, but must be helped, even in relations with Europe, by you and the government that has now taken the responsibility to get our country out of this impasse. That was the answer I would have expected and that would certainly satisfy me more than we have received. I do not even see any really concrete and proactive interventions in the context of the spending review. In the so-called decree of making, among other things, the rule that laid a ceiling on the compensation of public managers has been blocked; I really hope that this point will be corrected in the Senate. We very much hope so, because this would already represent a position and an invitation - indeed - to companies to have more confidence in this Government and to make their investments here. Anyway, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u41	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I thank President Letta. I believe we must follow his suggestion and recover the spirit of the good father of the family: a good father of the family, first of all, tries not to leave the debts on the shoulders of their children. I therefore hope that an analytical plan with defined objectives for debt reduction will be presented with the next Stability Act. In fact, as far as public finance is concerned, we know that with this boulder we will not create the necessary spaces to finance investments for the future of young people, in education, in culture and in infrastructures for tourism. In fact, we will continue to operate within a framework of public finance constraints. I therefore believe that debt reduction must be one of the issues on which your Government and its majority will have to engage.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u44	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that the issue we have touched on absolutely needs further study and, of course, further legal measures. As often happens, evil always presents itself with a banal robe, like a very small seed, which then grows and penetrates with deep roots. It is the case of gambling, which has entered our communities in a very deep way. Who, like me, was mayor knows how difficult communities are for these realities. Mr President, we have tabled a draft law and there are already others deposited in the Senate: we are calling into question a moratorium and we are giving an example, starting from the reduction of the expectations of revenue from gambling. Let us show that, in order to restore public finances, we do not invest in this type of income in the future. It takes a moment to scratch a scratcher and win: it is a very strong emotion, but the damage that remains to the families is very serious. This is not a partisan battle, but a battle on the side of the citizens, which we must all fight together. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u47	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we always have reason to agree on the analysis of the problems facing us. After all, SEL is not making a messy opposition, but on merit and on real issues. That is why, more than once, we have come up with a proposal to put together all around a debate and produce an extraordinary multi-annual plan, organically managed for development and employment, without cutting anyone off, without systematically producing decree-laws that are then subject to this Parliament, but above all the local authorities, the regions and the citizens. Make everyone better involved in the construction of the future. We hope that this practice is what the government wants to give. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u50	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I appreciate the great concreteness, but also the sense of rigour of President Letta, which always distinguishes him when he speaks in this House. If I have asked you today this question is because the situation is unfortunately worsening and the promotional policies carried out by countries with us neighbours (perhaps we live worse than others this situation) are unfortunately producing effects, because obviously the difference in terms of tax treatment and labour costs is really very high and, therefore, many of our companies are suffering an attraction. However, I very much appreciate his plan "Destination Italy" which today announced and which allows us to save a great heritage of quality, working traditions, style and specificity that, even for the long tradition of work that distinguishes our country, has always characterized Italy. I hope that today the excessive tax burden and the excessive cost of labour will not vanish a working tradition and international prestige gained in so many years of hard work and, therefore, do not negate the results that our companies have achieved on the world markets.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u53	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I would like to thank President Letta for all the answers he has given, which are satisfactory, and also for the answers he has not given on Germany, because that is already an answer. Remember that Germany accounts for 20% of Europe and exports 50% of what Europe exports abroad, but if Europe does not grow, the remaining 50% that Germany exports to Europe will no longer have to whom to export it. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u54	Let us now turn to questions concerning labour policies, to which the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Letta, will reply. The senators may ask the President of the Council of Ministers their questions for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u57	Parent (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is no escape from anyone that the greatest concern of Italian families today is the work of their children. It is the first time, in the history of generations, that girls and boys risk having a more uncertain future than mothers and fathers. Working life itself has become a risk: with the many corporate crises there are many workers and fifty-year-old workers who see their future in danger. But we of the future need so much, and trust. You said yesterday, Mr President, that we cannot stop at these difficulties, but we must have objectives of resources and vision objectives. In the Recommendation of the European Council on the establishment of a Youth Guarantee, it is recalled that young people often lack professional experience, sometimes have insufficient education or training and are not adequate to the labour market, have reduced access to financial resources and precarious working conditions. In the decree you mentioned earlier, Mr President, which is under discussion in this House, there are measures aimed at strengthening the network of public employment services. But there is still a long way to go if we start with this figure: only four out of every 100 unemployed people in Italy find work thanks to employment services. In Italy very little is invested in active labour policies, even in times of greatest crisis, in contrast to European countries. At the same time, it is necessary to find sufficient resources to cover the needs of the supplementary fund by way of derogation. I therefore ask you, Mr President, how the Government intends to address the issue of genuine and solid integration between active and passive labour policies in order to enable our citizens and citizens to be accompanied throughout their lives: from classrooms to access to work, to lifelong training, to support income in times of difficulty. In short, I ask you whether the time has not come to implement growth policies - which you rightly mentioned earlier - alongside policies to take care of the employability of the labour force in view of changes in the labour market.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u60	BERNINI (PdL). President Letta, some useful proposals to boost employment, especially among young people, are contained in the so-called work decree before the Senate. I trust in the goodwill of all of us to produce a quality text. However, I would like to ask you something more strategic overall, because the work - you mentioned it yourself in your first answer - is not an independent variable, it is not a separate sector, but it is a fundamental part of a country's economic policy. The recently published OECD and INPS studies have reclassified work as a national emergency, especially in comparison with Europe. In the last year, the labour market, entering and leaving, continues to be too rigid, further weighed down by some waste of the so-called Fornero law. The unemployment rate in Italy has reached 12.2% and the 2014 estimates unfortunately indicate a further increase. The greatest fragility is among young people, middle-aged workers and low-skilled workers. The People of Freedom is convinced that the recovery of employment can be supported by the labor decree, but it is also convinced that the Government must strategically commit to the objective of the overall reduction of the tax pressure - abolition of the IMU on the first house, not increase of the VAT, cut of the tax wedge - and to specific measures of incentive, simplification and flexibility of the labour market. We also welcome the European Youth Guarantee agreements, such as the opportunities of the New Deal for Europe project, but we are concerned, for example, about the low pervasiveness of our employment centres compared to similar European structures. All this, President Letta, I ask the following question: what forms of simplification, flexibility and reduction of the tax burden does the Government intend to put in place to increase employment and job search, especially for young people and those who have already entered or are entering the unemployment tunnel? Maybe you think of a formula on the model of EXPO 2015? How does the Government intend to strengthen and improve the efficiency of employment centres, including to influence the rising number of new unemployed and young NEETs, who neither study nor train nor seek work?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u63	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Italian companies are in a serious crisis due to globalisation which has affected almost all sectors of production and a competitive disadvantage in which they deal with competition from foreign companies, resulting in the impoverishment of employment in our country. The bill n. 890 (the so-called labor decree), to the attention of the Senate Assembly since yesterday, tends to increase youth employment, but only of young people aged between 18 and 29 years on a potential audience of about 3 million people. The financial constraints make it possible to encourage the recruitment of a maximum of 50,000 young workers per year, for a total of about 100,000 workers. In our country there are 160 companies in serious industrial crisis, such as Ilva, Lucchini, Berco and many others; then there are other companies that create the crisis choosing to relocate. The relocation of Italian companies was mainly of the low cost seeking type or based on the search of the reduction of the cost of the labor and concentrated in productive sectors with high added value. In addition to the large industry, almost thirty years ago the relocation of the small and medium-sized Tuscan industry began (e.g. leather, footwear, medium-sized fabrics). Fifteen years later, but more massively, the Veneto industry began, which had already experience in the area of internationalization of production, with the use of the abundant frontier labour of the current Slovenia bordering it. The search for the lower cost of labour tout court is instead driven not by the high wage levels of Italian workers, but by the total cost of labour borne by the company almost another 50 percent for parafiscal contributions, the amount of which should guarantee the high level of welfare in Italy: free medical-hospital care for all, public insurance for accidents at work, pensions, late-relationship allowances and 30 days of holiday per year. In light of all this, the 5 Star Movement asks how the Government can stem this productive migration, avoid the sale of our know-how in order to preserve our entrepreneurial capacity and therefore guarantee jobs, as well as being able to create new ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u66	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have already partly introduced the subject with the answers given to the previous point and we are aware of how important the issue of unemployment, especially youth unemployment, is to the government. However, we also want to draw your attention to the recommendations of the European Union and the OECD on the labour market, which are ongoing and have already been the subject of previous legislative action. In this context we ask you if you do not think it is appropriate that they be put in the yard, in order to take advantage of the opportunities for recovery that, although timidly, face, starting from Expo 2015, additional measures aimed at compensating the extraordinary uncertainty that characterizes the framework in which the enterprises are forced to operate, reducing the regulatory disincentive to the hiring of workers with an indefinite contract. We consider, in particular, the possibility of allowing, at least until the end of 2015, the permanent recruitment with lower costs and lower constraints and the possible dissolution of the relationship, at least in the initial three years, and in the following period with a protection of the stability of the growing relationship as the employee's seniority grows. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u69	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on labour policies, you have presented yourself to the Italians in our opinion, deceiving them of the fact that this is the Government of doing, while it is the Government of doing little and nothing. To date, in fact, from what emerges also from the measures that come to our examination, little has been done for the unemployed (or almost nothing), nothing for the young, nothing for the companies. The proposals put forward are ideas that create many expectations in those who at this moment look at us outside the border and who see us as the country of Bengodi, where everything is possible, everything is possible, everything could be done: the law emptys prisons, the proposal to repeal the crime of illegal immigration, the law on ius soli (which we are currently contesting). But the question is another: the Ministry of Labour tells us that in Italy there are 2 million foreign workers, of which 400,000 are unemployed. That's a lot, a lot. So, the news they told us until a few years ago, that immigrants come to Italy to carry out those jobs that the Italians no longer want to do, at this moment it no longer holds. We must realise that, Italian citizens and regular immigrants, we are all on the same boat: we are in recession, there is no work for anyone. What are the risks? There are certainly two risks: insufficient social shock absorbers, because we cannot pay everyone, and there is a crime risk, because right now in the areas, in the neighborhoods, in the areas where there is no work there is a very high crime risk. We therefore call for new initiatives to contain the arrival of immigrant workers. Would it not be wiser (and that is what we ask) to promote, for example, an emergency measure aimed at temporarily suspending, causing economic crisis (and we will propose it), the adoption of decrees that determine the flows of entry? We also ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to consider the possibility of taking initiatives to provide for the repatriation of non-EU nationals who are not employed in regular activities. We reiterate this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are not the country of bengodes. There is no work at the moment and it is useless - I want to point out this - for its ministers to go around deceiving the Italians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u72	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I ask you a clear and precise question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I ask you if you really think in your heart and with all sincerity (because you will soon speak to the country, as well as to us) that the answer to the question of work can be represented by the introduction of elements of additional flexibility and that these can create jobs. It is a question that I ask you because I believe that the country, after so much flexibility and little ingress, needs a clear answer. The second question is closely linked. I say this because, as you know, here in the Senate we are examining Decree-Law No. 76 and honestly having a labour impact assessment for young people is very difficult, because I have the impression that it will have very little. Another issue, which is also closely linked to labour policies, because it concerns a problem on which you, Mr President, committed yourself, taking it almost as a moral commitment at the time of your installation and the declarations of plans, is the question of exodus. I speak of moral commitment because I remember his words, when he said it was a betrayed pact of the State with the citizens. The issue of numbers doesn't appeal to me because they will always vary on time until we face the node at the structural level, putting the Fornero pension reform back on track. It will also happen to you: it is the issue on which all citizens, wherever we go, ask us for news, information; they want to know what will become of them if they lose their jobs perhaps in one or two years' time. It concerns not only employees, but also small entrepreneurs and artisans who have had to close their business due to the crisis, who thought they had a small pension and who today have absolutely nothing at all. It is precisely because it responds not only to this House but to the citizens, I believe it is time, Mr President, to say clear and precise words on these points.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u75	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, national legislation provides for the possibility of obtaining treatment of up to 24 months of supplementary pension fund by way of derogation. It is envisaged that, in the event of the cessation of the activity of the entire company, of a sector of activity, of one or more establishments or parts of them, the extraordinary treatment of wage integration by company crisis may be extended on the basis of specific agreements in government for a further 12 months compared to the initial 12 months. At this moment there are several cases of closure of plants that could access this program throughout the country: from Indesit in the Marches, to Natuzzi in Puglia, to Ideal Standard in Pordenone, to Whirlpool in Trento (where they are currently employed almost 500 people and that in all probability will cease the activity by 2014. In particular, in the case of Whirlpool (which you know very well because they also spoke to you at the Festival of the Economy), all the local institutions and also our community are particularly concerned about the negative consequences it has on the induced of all the craft companies that worked with Whirlpool. The local institutions are moving well together with the social partners to ensure that the plant does not close, but finds a new property; this solution, however, needs its time, in which it is important to protect the workers' community that today is highly concerned. I therefore ask you whether the Employment Fund has sufficient resources to finance the extension of the integration fund programmes provided for by the rule that I referred to or whether, in a logic of aid at such a difficult stage for the economic and social holding of the country, it is not intended to refinance it for the management of the recent serious cases of closure of establishments such as those I have just mentioned and among which I remind you, in particular, the Whirlpool in Trento.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u78	Barani (GAL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the current phase of a serious employment crisis, especially of young people (as many of my colleagues have said), which runs through the country, is a consequence of the wider unfavourable economic situation and certainly does not benefit from the reform of the pension system carried out under the Fornero law. It should be noted that certain sectors, both public and private, such as small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the real driving force of Italy, but also the health sector, in which access to the profession for young doctors, with six years of university and specialization behind them, are becoming increasingly difficult in the face of a generational shift which, for obvious reasons linked to scientific and technological innovation, is, on the other hand, fundamental to the efficiency of the national health system. They are well-prepared and motivated young doctors who arrive in the world of work after 40 years. The President of the Council is asked whether the Government does not consider it appropriate to initiate a reflection on the desirability of providing a kind of slide for employees in excess of those services offered by the National Health Service now outsourced and for professionals in the sector who are in possession of the personal requirements and pre-reform contributions Fornero and make a request for retirement, imagining to carry out a recruitment of medical, health and paramedical staff for every four retirements of the above staff. It also wonders whether the Commission does not consider that it should proceed with the release of the Stability Pact in those regions affected in the last two years by significant seismic phenomena, so that its administrations can provide more rapid and cost-effective reconstruction, also facilitating the resumption of activity in those companies whose importance is vital for their respective territories, especially in terms of employment. Reconstruction and employment response, for example, in my Lunigiana and nearby Garfagnana - which you, President Letta, know perfectly well - would be feasible by subtracting from the constraints of the Stability Pact exclusively the resources that the Tuscany Region has already committed itself to devote to dealing with the post-seismic emergency. An amendment to be included in a decree would therefore be sufficient and the problem would be solved for all areas which have been affected by significant seismic phenomena. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Letta.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of work, the lack of work and the need to encourage and promote the best possible conditions for job creation is certainly part of the heart of our mission, certainly common in the words I have heard so far. It is a particularly hot topic, because as in recent years the growth of unemployment, and youth unemployment even more, has hit our country. Therefore, we all know that we have a mission: this mission is to work for Italy to resume the path of employment and job creation. What job? Many speeches have touched on the topical issue of work, and I would like to insist on this, on a point that I believe is essential. Everything we have done so far, in the past ninety days, has to do with a very particular commitment: I say this in relation to the words I heard from President Susta and Senators De Petris and Bencini. As you know (the work decree is for the attention of this House), what we have planned is a strong, full-bodied incentive, all for permanent work. I want to say this forcefully because it is not just the words, even if they are spoken in this House, where words weigh and count more: they matter the facts. This government has made a choice. This government has chosen to encourage work indefinitely, because we believe that it is essential in our country to give companies and workers the opportunity to stabilize working relationships as long as possible, because it serves businesses and serves the worker: it serves businesses, which invest in the professionalism of the worker, and of course it serves the worker, who creates a life perspective, a very particular and long-term life plan. Compared to these issues, the accent made earlier by Senator Bernini on the theme of the Expo reminds me of the choice that the Milanese and Lombard authorities, the Expo and the unions made two days ago. It is a very important choice first of all because they have done it together and I intend to work together with the social partners, and I believe that this is fundamental. I met the trade unions yesterday and will meet representatives of the business world in the coming days. I intend to work with all my strength to ensure that there is co-responsibility and the ability to choose together, on the understanding that it will then be this House, to which the Government will propose the choices it considers to be the most important and best to make, to decide. But I think the example of what they did in Milan is positive, Senator Bernini. I say this because you have mentioned this issue and I believe that we must work on it, not only on employment (on which, with the national trade unions, we will try to work, so that that positive experience can be a positive experience that expands), but also on other issues. The Expo will be a great opportunity for Italy: it will be an opportunity to create positive jobs and investments and to provide infrastructure an area of our country that desperately needs it. The essential theme of the Expo is a theme where the possibility of linking growth there is linked to what we do now. And what we do now means many things: it means - of course - making choices that invest, that give work and - of course - that give legality. At the Expo I intend to link national regulations that strengthen those elements of protection and legality that are essential because this load of investment, which I believe will be there, must not allow any shortcuts, cunning or things that unfortunately happen too many times. In this sense, the work that we will already do from the next days and hours will be very substantial, linked to the regulations that will be created around the Expo story in order to manage to drag growth and drag it in the way that I believe we all want to carry on. I hear many times, even in the context of the debate we are making, a word that is of disillusionment, disappointment or criticism because a significant part of the resources has been loaded on the issue of combating youth unemployment. I know that the unemployed are of all ages, but I want to point out to this House (who knows for sure) and also to those who are listening to us from outside, that there is another chapter within the measure you are considering, which is fundamental, which has a beginning of response now and which we want to continue and strengthen. I refer to the chapter on the unemployed who are under ASPI, that is, who have lost their jobs and have the last part of social protection. We have included a measure that encourages companies to hire those workers, who are obviously not young workers because they are people who were already working and who have lost their jobs. The company that hires them will have the benefits of ASPI throughout the remaining period. I think this is a very strong signal. I say this because first Senator Bencini rightly mentioned the difficulty of workers of all ages and also the fact that workers of a certain age then find it more difficult to relocate. But there is an instrument in here, and it is an instrument that I want to exalt because it shows that attention to not leaving anyone behind is an attitude that we are absolutely convinced of. With regard to not leaving anyone behind, I would like to confirm - I repeat for Senator De Petris - what I said in this House and also to the House of Deputies at the time when the government was given confidence on the subject of exodus. I said it and I repeat it: we will do it and the attention will be constant and step by step to solve the problem, which we will have to deal with and resolve over time. The Senators Panizza and Barani have placed two issues territorially very centered: one concerns the Autonomous Province of Trento and the other the Provinces of Massa-Carrara and Lucca (the Garfagnana is in the province of Lucca and the Lunigiana of Massa-Carrara). These are, of course, two issues that I would like to take note of. I know that the issue related to Whirpool is closely followed by local institutions: I know because the president of the Autonomous Province of Trento has spoken to me many times, and we will also follow, of course for what is possible, what at the level of that Autonomous Province is being studied for a solution that is positive. The representative of the North League mentioned the question of flows and that of non-EU workers. We have a regulatory system made of accordion: I want to say this, because I think it is important that we know. It is a system for which, when unemployment of foreign workers increases more than that of Italian workers, the decrees flow are interrupted. This is what has happened in recent times: last year's flow decree has not been done exactly for this reason, and the same applies to seasonal flow decrees. Our system is therefore based on a logic of communicating vessels that has also been applied in this situation. Of course, I hope and hope that unemployment will drop for both Italian and foreign workers, because we strongly need a revival and a chance on many jobs. Senator Parente focused her question on the question of employment services, which was obviously at the heart of the last European Council. As we know, the last European Council dealt with this issue: at the meeting we held in Berlin, at which I participated together with Minister Giovannini, together with representatives from all other European countries, the issue of employment services was central. Our country has a shortage on the topic of employment services; it is an absolutely obvious deficiency, of which we must take note. We do not have a job service that meets the challenge of current unemployment; we do not have sufficient public investment; we are struggling on this issue. It is a task for which I believe we must all work together to find solutions. In the decree that you have in question one of the essential elements is the Unity of Mission, from which you will begin to work. The Mission Unit will set up on Tuesday and will aim to build for our country a system of services for the use more attentive to the successful experiences that there are in other European countries. Structural reform of the employment service is one of the main structural reforms ahead. We will also be obliged by the theme of the "Warranty for young people", because the Youth Guarantee is an element that will force our country to give answers and to tie the demand to the offer, in particular after the training course, in ways that up to now have never applied. In particular, the same decree, as you know, finally kicks off the establishment of a large database, which will be essential to link together demand and supply. I believe that this is the subject on which the commitment of the next few days will be directed to try to resume the lost time to make sure that supply and demand meet. We are of course very ready and very attentive - I say this with respect to the arguments that Senator Susta put before - to all the improvements that can be introduced in this field to make our system more dynamic and functional. In the autumn, we'll refinance the Integration Fund. You know that the funding of the Integration Fund was one of the first interventions this Government has made to secure the draw, and in the autumn we will refinance it. Mr President, the last issue I would like to mention relates to a subject which I saw completely absent in the debate these weeks and in the speeches on the decrees we adopted. I would like to mention the Charter for Social Inclusion: it is an important novelty that demonstrates the will of this Government to address the issue of extreme poverty, one of the great challenges of democracy, because it does not normally have representation: extreme poverty, in most cases, does not vote. Extreme poverty is widespread in our country, there is, and it is necessary to give answers. The charter for social inclusion is a first answer: I say first answer because it intervenes for the Mezzogiorno and for the large metropolitan cities. The Charter for Social Inclusion gives a first answer on which we will have to work, but I would like to mention it here because we all know that, very often, the step between unemployment and the limits of poverty is one of those that must anguish those who sit in these and other benches of this House, because our country, following this crisis, is experiencing an extension of family and territorial difficulties that, in particular in some areas of our country, are becoming unsustainable. That is why we are going to tackle these issues with determination and, above all, step by step, as I said before, it is a very high priority; that is what we are doing, especially what we want to do even more with you. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u80	They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u83	Parent (PD). Mr President, I am very pleased with your reply and the current approach you have given. You spoke earlier about today's work; we are converting Decree-Law No. 76 of the Government into law and there is no interpretation: there are incentives for companies hiring permanent workers; so this is a fact. Secondly, we cannot tackle labour policies without a vision for the future and the issue of labour supply is crucial because we need to strengthen the workforce we have and what we will have. Here again it is a subject of great democracy because it concerns equal access opportunities for all, who can and who can not, to work and answers the question: a young man who does not find work where he goes? If he goes to a place that welcomes him as a public service for employment and can accompany him, this is a theme of great civilization.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u86	BERNINI (PdL). Mr President, I too would like to thank you for both of your speeches, because you have identified a scenario of crisis but also of solutions to problems. I would say an upbuilding scenario, at a time when it is not easy to be constructive, and we appreciate that very much. That is why I too am satisfied. Certainly we will have to work much longer, we will have to work together; that is the meaning of our continued presence and our continued contribution to the measures. In particular I am pleased that she wanted to stigmatize and highlight with particular attention the theme of the happy and lucky negotiations Expo 2015. It is true that precisely on those premises we can reach and acquire that need for simplification and flexibility of the labour market without which, alas, the unity of measure of wealth in our country, that is, the enterprise... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u87	Conclude, Senator Bernini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u88	BERNINI (PdL). We know that work is not created by decree, even work indefinitely, and that the chains of the enterprise have always been in the cards of useless regulations. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u91	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, as far as the youth labour policies are concerned, let us welcome them. They certainly could be improved, perhaps even through the acquisition of amendments that we had prepared, but most of them have been misplaced and dismissed. Solving the problem of work I suppose is really difficult and this, as a citizen, makes me anxious and somehow destabilizes me. I am thinking of all young people who do not have a job, those of whom you spoke, between the ages of thirty and fifty, who thanks to the ASPI in some way are summarized, because the entrepreneur is encouraged in their rehire being able to relieve himself of the costs of the worker. But I also think of all those people who have stayed out of the world of work right now, who had put one foot in the pension and the other had left it at work, and then obviously jumped but didn't make it jump and they were completely in the void: these are right out of the circuit right now. Again, I would like to say that it is important to protect our business to create jobs. Entrepreneurs from outside come well, but not entrepreneurs who buy our brands and then relocate our work, therefore taking away work from our country: I would like them to arrive brands from outside, but still stay here and create work in our country, and for this to happen probably it is also necessary that this country is fiscally attractive and that therefore the cost of business is definitely lower. Again, you said that no one has to stay behind: at this moment in Italy there are about six million people who have remained behind and who have a fairly important gap compared to those who are ahead. A guaranteed minimum income would probably help fill this gap. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u94	Sunta (SPI). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we appreciate your reply, for which we thank you. By interpreting what you wanted to say, namely that the Government is strongly engaged in structural reforms, we would like to highlight three aspects. The first is vocational training, which must be reviewed in consultation with the regions and local authorities. The second is that of the revision of social shock absorbers: we cannot think that it is only the fund integration that resolves the needs that we are facing. The third is that the question of the labour market must, however, be seen by those who are the real employers: policy can help to remove the obstacles to recruitment, but today we have to put companies in a position, above all, to deal with the emergencies that exist, also in order to be able to withstand competition on the world markets. From this point of view, it is therefore absolutely necessary that we address the problem of the centrality of who really has to give the work today, which is the business system: but his words are reassuring in this direction. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u97	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, of course I am not very satisfied, because, as you will have noticed, you answered only one of the two questions: on the decree flows answered me, on returns unfortunately not. He did not respond, in my opinion, because perhaps he does not quite understand the situation of important metropolitan realities, where there are peripheral districts where tens of thousands of people unfortunately do not work, where there is a lot of unemployment, where there are neighborhoods-ghettos, where there are Roma camps, with situations at the limit of social degradation. Expo's been mentioned. Well we have to avoid what happened in Shanghai a few years ago (who was in Shanghai can say it quietly): it was done a nice image operation, but 20 meters from the Expo of Shangai there were neighborhoods-ghettos, there were situations that were indecipherable and unspeakable. On the paper's speech for social inclusion, although it was not my question, I ask you, President, before starting this kind of operation, perhaps to take off your jacket and tie and take a ride in these realities, in these neighborhoods-ghettos, perhaps at Caritas, or the suburban markets, where there are our peers who go to collect garbage from the garbage or ask for charity. This is an important situation, but I give you a tip: do it without officiality, otherwise what happened to Minister Kyenge, who went to Nardò and twenty-four hours before the mayor of Nardò removed the Roma camp to show that everything was fine. This is Italy. I hope you're not in favor of Italetta!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u100	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). President Letta, I have to record that on the issue of exodus and government ideas on how to intervene in a structural way to review the mechanisms that produce every day the same phenomenon of Fornero reform you were quite evasive, and I regret that. On the other, the more general question of work, I repeat that it is true that Article 1 of the Decree aims to introduce incentive measures for the indefinite period, but it is also necessary to understand what will happen after the eighteen months. I also think that we need to put an overall hand in the revision of the incentive system, which must be solved not only for employment, as is being done in some forms, but also to give a deep boost to innovation issues (which are partly touched on with start-ups): but we still have a lot to do today to create jobs. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u103	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you for your reply, which I of course appreciated and which I am satisfied with. I would like to thank you especially because it confirms the desire to find always, not only cooperation, but also agreement with the local institutions, and I believe that this is the best way to work. I confirm to you that, in our responsible autonomy, everything is being done to put in place every instrument that can solve this difficult situation. I am very pleased that these days important agreements have been reached with companies and social forces, which I believe will give us the almost guarantee of a continuity of activity, even with other firms and in other forms, thus safeguarding jobs and the economic potential that the company has always expressed and which I hope will continue to guarantee. She also spoke about the Expo in Milan 2015; she gives me the opportunity to invite her again, together with the Minister of Culture and all my fellow senators, to the inauguration of the Muse, the new Museum of Sciences in Trento designed by Renzo Piano, because the challenge of knowledge is courageous and challenging, but it is also the challenge of growth and development, as well as the challenge of the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u106	Barani (GAL). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to give you an example. Do you know why a young man who dives into a mirror of cold water, if it's hot, dies? Because he got into the water abruptly; if the same thing had done it gradually he would have had a simple bath. The Fornero Act brought unemployment because it was launched abruptly; in fact, it went from a 96-97 quota to a 109-112 quota, causing exodus and, above all, youth unemployment. I gave her the example of the National Health Service, where we have doctors in training with the highest preparation in the world; they arrive at the age of thirty-two-three years, and are only hired at the age of forty-one-forty-two years. In fact, in the last ten years - during which health care expenditure has increased, let us not forget, by 50 billion - it has been thought of hiring workers of a lower professional level (cooks "volantini", guardians), and then outsourcing those services, thus making them become a burden. However, a cardiosurgeon cannot be replaced by a flywheel and a neurosurgeon cannot be replaced by a cook. We need to increase that high-specialization turnover, in the interests of the National Health Service and public health. I believe that the revision in this sense of the Fornero law will bring back employment, especially youth, in order to encourage the entry into the national health system of doctors more prepared and more motivated than others who are forced to remain up to sixty-seven-seven years, no longer motivated and no longer updated.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u107	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Mr Letta on behalf of myself and the House for his willingness, which can be considered exceptional as President of the Council, to respond immediately to questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u108	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-79.ana.u109	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday, July 26, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 534 p.m.
