ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pizzetti, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u4	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) Come on, ladies and gentlemen: a corset wakes up in the morning and activates our work! [[Applause.]] The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.40 a.m. and resumed at 10 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u6	The session is resumed. I invite colleagues to take their seats. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u9	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, before the vote on the Minutes, I shall reject the request for a quorum check. In fact, we would have liked to see the House full. As we are talking about reforms, and this is such an important issue, I want to stigmatize what happened this morning: it would have been nice to see a full House on such an important subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u12	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft Constitutional Law: "Institution of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms" (813). The Minister for Constitutional Reform, Senator Quagliariello, has the floor to explain this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft Constitutional Law, on which the Government calls for the urgency to be resolved, intends to implement the acts of direction on institutional reforms approved by the Chambers, in particular by this Senate, on 29 May. Those acts highlight the need - and I quote again - to define in good time, through the approval of a specific constitutional law, an extraordinary procedure of constitutional revision that allows - I quote - to plan a certain timetable and in line with the country's expectations for the examination of draft laws for revision of Part Two of the Constitution. I believe that the Chambers, the Senate in particular, have done well to highlight the need for certain and suitable times. We know that every historical phenomenon has its own internal time, which is also different from chronological time. For this reason, speaking of the last century, we are talking about a short century: a century that began not when it actually opened chronologically, but in 1914. This is something that concerns and also concerns the issue of constitutional reforms, which have been under discussion in the Chambers for exactly thirty years. This year we celebrate the 30th birthday of the opening of that debate. In the presence of this situation, we have, I believe, and Parliament has, before the country a dual need: the first is to make the country understand that an amendment of the Constitution (we are not talking about a new Constitution, but about an important amendment) is not a simple act and does not mean changing a regulation of condominium. It is true that there are thirty years of debate behind us, but it is true that we are in a time of history in many ways peculiar. If we are to give credit to the many, finally Minister Saccomanni, who told us and explained how we are experiencing the deepest economic crisis of the contemporary age, in front of which even that of 1929 pales, we cannot fail to think that this crisis has changed also the terms of the tasks of the State and the needs of institutional apparatus proper to the State. The functions of the State change, and this is dramatically highlighted every day also by the chronicle. Let us think only of one aspect, particularly that of work: we are accustomed, with the twentieth-century categories, to think that there is a confrontation, when not really a conflict, between employers and workers, and today we find employers and workers on the same barricade, sometimes united by the same tragedies and by the same dramas. All this obviously implies a change in the institutional apparatus and the task of the State. On the other hand, obviously, if this is true, we must also offer certainty about the times. I repeat: the timing must be reasonable, Parliament must determine them, and the terms it lays down must be authorising terms and cannot, of course, be insurmountable boundaries. But I believe that that call in the motions was most timely, because it highlights in front of the country that we do not want, again this time, to use time as an alibi to postpone still what is not postponed. Only a short time ago we were on the brink of an institutional crisis. The fact that we have taken a few steps back cannot allow us to forget that time, which is still very recent. Therefore, reading the motion, the Government felt that it was necessary to adhere to Parliament's invitation, also with regard to the certain and in some way urgent timing that the motions recommended: hence this request for urgency. It is an act which in some way accepts an invitation which had been formulated and which I believe should be interpreted correctly. I repeat: not as a draconian and insurmountable limit, but as an element of sensitivity towards a country that cannot think that after thirty years, even this time, reform is not taken seriously, but we just want to take time, perhaps, as has been said, to take time to give this Government a time. This government will once have it until it has the confidence of Parliament and until it clearly has a positive role for the country. He doesn't need any kind of alibi or want to create it. You don't want to hide behind the need for reforms, and that's why I think you have to witness every day that you want to do them, and that you want to do them well, but quickly. [[Applause from the PdL, PD, SCpI and Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u14	I thank the Minister for Constitutional Reforms, Senator Quagliariello. I would remind you that no more than one speaker for each group will be able to speak in the debate on this request for no more than ten minutes. The vote will then be taken by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u17	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that my Group will vote for the resolution on the request for an urgent statement by the Government on its draft constitutional law establishing this new body in a motion which we adopted as a majority a few weeks ago. We do this because we have said from the beginning that we are and will be in the process of reform: a path in which we believe, we have always believed and believe even more in this very delicate moment of our country's life, well outlined by the Minister for Constitutional Reforms, in a world now globalized that calls for ever more immediate decision-making processes, increasingly sensitive to changing consciences, increasingly sensitive to major economic competitions on the markets. If we don't reform this country, we've all failed in this legislature. It is a categorical imperative that I wish to reiterate here. Having said that, however, I cannot escape, Mr President, some methodological considerations on the path we are taking. We have trusted this Government, and I believe - and I would like to say this, Mr President-in-Office of the Government - that we have committed ourselves to being swift when we vote on the motions. And we have remembered - it has been done who is talking today - that if in our country the reforms have failed, if the reforms of the electoral law have failed it has not been for responsibility of procedural quirks, of obstructive attitudes, of recalls to the Regulation, but it has been exclusively for responsibility of the politics. And so, Mr President, recalling this concept to me is important, because we have given this Government confidence, and I would not like to be tempted to think that this Government's request for urgent procedure to Parliament almost hides the Commission's distrust of Parliament. I don't want to think so, but there is concern. I think that there was no need for it, there was no need for it at all, because we are ready to do our part, as we did back in 1996, Mr President, when - I was a newly elected member - the bicameral committee chaired by President D'Alema was set up, you will all remember. It was determined by a constitutional law such as the one we are about to adopt, and this reform was needed, and the Senate, Mr President, in just six days - from 24 July to 30 July 1996 - hesitated. This is our story. This is what the Senate did, with great responsibility, when it had to activate a path and trace it legislatively to establish that body that worked. Therefore, as memories, historical history in politics are important, I see this request for urgent procedure as completely inappropriate. But allow me - and we will vote on this - to reflect on this, which I want to do right from the start of the process of these reforms: Parliament wants respect, it will certainly have it on the part of the Government, but let us start on the right foot. We must work together, but we must work together in this House. And to listen, to read in the newspapers that people outside this Chamber are discussing what the future Senate will be, what the new parliamentary system will be, what the future form of government will be; they are debating, and perhaps they are opposing and confronting each other, in the logic of full dialectic and doctrinal democracy, we are not excited, at least to me personally, because we are the elected by the Italians and we are able to self-form ourselves. [[Applause from the PdL and Mixed-SEL Groups]] The Committee has been, it is a choice of government that we have respected. Never overshadow the invasion of skills. We have noted that. There was no consultation between the Government and Parliament on the establishment of this Committee, because there had to be no consultation. There is no doubt, however, that a debate is beginning, which I consider abstract, on the part of these very authoritative characters, that I would like to understand well - I ask myself, I ask on behalf of my Group - what they will hesitate at the end of their work. A text? Is the government going to do the lyrics? Will there be a text already prepared by the wise men in this branch of Parliament? I don't know, I wonder. What about our autonomy? Our identity? Our job? Has everything that has been done in recent years been produced in terms of debate, sacrifice and study? There is a text, for example, Mr President, you will remember that months ago it was unanimously approved by the Senate Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the new form of bicameral system. What are we gonna do with it? It's a job. I would therefore like to address these concerns to myself, Mr President, because I believe that we must be mindful of our history, our past and our commitment, and it was a commitment that involved my Group, including the current majority group and others. We have worked with great responsibility. I'll add another note. The government has made an invitation to make it soon and we ourselves have said to the government: "Let's make it quick." We voted on the motion. Personally, when drawing up the motion - my colleague, Mr Zanda, will remember - I had doubts about the indication of the term, although correctly qualified by Minister Quagliariello as authorising officer, of 18 months. I would not like to be misunderstood: I hope that the constitutional legislative process will end even before 18 months. But be careful: if we approve this text with a deadline of 18 months, we create a precedent, a precedent that almost knows of the commissionership, of the pseudocommissiamento of Parliament. [[Applause from the PdL, M5S and Misto-SEL Groups]] And I don't like that. Mr President, Minister, the constitutional law of 1996, which we adopted at first reading in six days, gave time. It gave the D'Alema bicameral Commission four months to hesitate on a text - the Commission alone - and it gave Parliament no other time limit. The two-cameral Commission D'Alema has worked well, has worked well; well chaired - I have always said so - by a perfect President, who has managed the work with great balance; he has completed the work in four months, he has done his part. It had a term assigned by a constitutional law - well, a term for a Commission can be given - but there was no time limit for Parliament. Then, we all know the facts. It has arrived at the House, and the route has stopped. But it was not interrupted, Mr President, because there were 3 000 amendments tabled, because there were speakers of obstruction or people who occupied the House. The path has failed because there has been no more political agreement. So let us keep these things in mind. Let us reason - and we shall reason, I hope, calmly and calmly in this House - on the need to indicate a term. I would have preferred to transfer it into statements and engagements to be made by the Leaders in this House. I believe, however, that translating it and sacring it into a constitutional text constitutes a precedent which almost shows a limitation of what is the autonomy and independence of Parliament and of the individual Members sitting in this House. Our challenge will be to finish the work before 18 months, but without having included that term, almost for tabulas, within a constitutional law that we are going to approve, and that we will approve even before 30 days that we will have to respect with this vote that we will give. [[Applause from the PDL, LAG and Mixed-SEL groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u20	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we too consider it completely inappropriate to apply Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure with regard to the compression and limitation of time. It is inappropriate and, as far as we are concerned (and on this we agree with the statements made now by President Schifani), we also believe that it is a vulnus to Rules 35 and 36 of the same Rules of Procedure. It is not possible for this House, with regard to the beginning of the constitutional reform process, to be subjected to pressure in the face of the haste and limitation of the powers of the Senate and of Parliament as a whole. Among other things, I find it really incredible what happened today: today the Senate is called to speak on the basis of Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, but I would like to point out that until last night, at 9 p.m. (I did not check this morning), if the senators had gone to the Senate website and had clicked on the text of the constitutional bill, they would have read the inscription "text not available". That is why I find it absolutely inappropriate to define this procedure to be an understatement. I must say to President Schifani that if he considers this procedure to be inappropriate and if he does not agree with the time squeeze provided for in the draft Constitutional Act, he should be consistent, together with his Group, and of course not vote in favour of urgency in relation to the measure. But let's get back to the fundamental question. We believe that the application of Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure is also a vulnus of Articles 35 and 36 of the same Rules of Procedure, which inhibit the use of simplified procedures for constitutional, electoral and other purposes. In addition, the text establishing the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms is imbued with continuous derogations from the normal procedure of examination and direct approval which the Constitution requires in a prescriptive manner. Among other things, in all the passages of the draft law, Article 138 of the Constitution is amended without ever saying that this article is actually changed. I refer in particular to paragraphs 3 to 7 of Article 2 and to the possibility that the Committee may adopt by an absolute majority of the members additional rules for its operation compared to those already contained in the Rules of Procedure of the Chambers, thus prohibiting the normal procedure provided for in the two Parliamentary Regulations on the submission of questions to the referent for a preliminary ruling, suspensive and non-transitional examination of the articles. If procedures for establishing constitutional profiles cannot be applied, how will it be possible to detect any unconstitutionality? The whole text, which you are about to approve in order to simplify procedures, is imbued with rules derogating from the normal procedure of examination and direct approval. I would like to focus on the compression of time: from three months to one month between one resolution and the other. What I find absolutely serious, then, is the deadline for tabling amendments that must respect the senators and Members, set within five days before the start of the general discussion, while for the Government and the Committee this deadline is set 48 hours before the vote on the articles. The Government and the Committee may table amendments five days after the parliamentarians; only one Group President or at least twenty Members and ten Senators may submit sub-amendments to the amendments of the Government and the Committee. This passage is very serious and must make us think today. The debate on reforms, as provided for in our Constitution in Article 138, must be accompanied by a calm reflection. The three-month deadline laid down in Article 138 is precisely to indicate the spirit and the fact that in order to touch our Constitution, which is rigid, especially when we are preparing to do so, as in this draft law, in several parts and not in one part only, a free - free - debate of the Chambers is required, a weighting, a reflection and the freedom of individual senators and of individual Members. Therefore, in our view, the abbreviation of the time frame contained in the draft law is a violation of the spirit and letter of Article 138 of the Constitution. This abbreviation is even more accelerated by this request, which we are discussing today, in accordance with Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure. I find it very serious to limit the freedom of individual senators. The Minister knows - because it is one of the issues we had raised more clearly and clearly in the debate on motions - that one point for us was absolutely direct about the fact that individual senators or individual Members could have the opportunity to amend and intervene. The text of the draft law confines this possibility to a Group President or to ten senators: it is a very strong limitation of the individual, freedom and autonomy of Parliament. In the case of the Senate, among other things, we are called to decide on ourselves, right on the Senate. It's one of the issues we've been looking at for a long time. All the more so, I believe that a genuine freedom, full autonomy of discussion is required. Instead, the Government, both with the establishment of a Committee of Experts and with the prevalence that now seems to have the debate within the framework of the same, and today with the request for abbreviated procedure, is violating the autonomy and freedom of Parliament. Colleagues senators, I appeal to each of you, because at this moment there can be no reference to the disciplines of the Group. Perhaps this is the last opportunity you have to be able to express your vote freely. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] on the constitutional reform procedure. That is why I strongly urge you to vote against the request for an abbreviated procedure. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u23	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the apocalyptic tone of the previous senator does not give me particular concern: I think that the free votes in this Senate will be many and I do not think that this morning's vote will in any way undermine Parliament's prerogatives. Instead, I must associate myself with the concerns expressed by Senator Schifani, concerns that generate more annoyance than deep distress. The annoyance, Minister, depends on the fact that, at times, in this beginning of the parliamentary term, positions have been taken almost in favour of the cameras, rather than for the success of the measure. We understand very well that there are needs of the Government, of the political forces, of broader relations of our country compared to other systems, in an attempt to demonstrate, each for his own part and his own role, that they are not wasting time and that they do not take dilatory attitudes. You don't want to give that idea. Let us be careful, however, that the piece is not worse than the hole. We would not want this anxiety of the announcement, this desire to arrive first at identifying, perhaps, the best, the most appropriate, the most successful in terms of reform, to pollute this area. Minister, since the vote on the motions which started the reform phase, we have been told that this would be a phase, in all its stages, marked by a remarkable spirit of cooperation between the Government and Parliament. In fact, I could not complain about this, given that this approach was agreed at the Conference of Leaders. The problem, however, concerns the content, Minister. For a senator who thinks he is coming here to represent the Italian electoral corps, the Italian citizens, who believe that they are making their own, original and in any case truly representative contribution to the reform of the Constitution, it is uncomfortable to listen in the mass media, already the evening before the start of the debate, as President Schifani said earlier, to the forms of bicameralism, to the functions of the Senate, to the active and passive electorate, to the direct and indirect vote: all issues, Minister, which are the prerogative of Parliament. Mr Minister, the technical committee which took office yesterday will be able to provide the Government with all the contributions it would like in the work of the Commission. We attach it to the Commission responsible for discussing everything in an open, free way, free from any conditioning. The fact that the Government wants to be supported in a serious way well comes, but they do not anticipate positions: we do not want to play the role of authenticators of what is already happening elsewhere. I am convinced that this is not the spirit of the Government, but above all it is not the spirit of the Minister who represents the Government here and for this matter. Therefore, I would ask you to use great caution also from the media point of view in external exposure, because then everything is simplified. Yesterday I heard one of the participants in that meeting propose once again to proceed first with the amendment of the electoral law and to secure Parliament; another proposes instead to put a tombstone on bicameralism. We don't make mistakes ourselves. And what I say, Minister, is not a report of delaying practice; to say that Parliament is sovereign and that the Commission will have to exercise all its powers and prerogatives does not mean wanting to speak for a long time, because it has been said well: 18 months may be a longer time than necessary, but the really important thing is that in the end our work will be really useful to the country and we will have approved an important reform. Since I want to make a contribution to the acceleration of reforms from today on, I will not use all the time available to me for intervention. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u26	NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to the Minister's report, which was very short and very technical; then I listened with equal attention to Senator Schifani's speech, and honestly I asked myself a few questions. We know very well that we are living in a reason for derogation from a significant part of the Charter, but I thought that this issue had been dealt with previously in places that are also debating procedures. I would not like a political question to be raised, through the procedural question, because, if a political question were to be raised using an existing procedural question (the question we were dealing with just a few moments ago), then it would be better to have no memory of the past, as President Schifani recalled, indeed better to obliterate the past and, as the Edict of Nantes teaches, to make a sort of pact of oblivion. In fact, what we should be celebrating from the Bozzi Commission up to the present day is a birthday that perhaps should not need a cake with candles, because there is nothing to celebrate about institutional reforms to boast about. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and Senator Puppato.]] It is appropriate then to spread a veil and arrive at the reasons why we are faced with a derogation requested by the Government. We attach the derogation to what President Letta said in this House, here and in the House, when he spoke of an emergency condition and an exceptional condition. The only justification for such a derogation and for the possibility that the Government has given itself, has given itself, to establish the time limits that can be dictated to the Assembly (also a non-peaceful condition) can only be the condition of emergency and exceptionality. We attach this consideration to a central principle, namely that it is necessary to create new expectations and give hope to this Italy. And the only way to create expectations and generate hope is that the economic effectiveness of which the Government is working is linked to the certainty of absolutely authoritative decision-making and institutional instruments. Either this mechanism is placed within a combined arrangement, within a synergy that manifests its effectiveness, or risks losing the credibility of which the Government and its majority have extreme necessity, necessity through which it is possible to ask for a reasonable pact from the Italians. I do not go into the substance of the issues, because they were the subject of a debate a few days ago, and I merely mention two factors. The first: when we think about rewriting the state's order we must think about rewriting it from the top down and from the right to the left (or from the bottom up and from the left to the right, it does not matter), in the sense that all the legal parts must be taken into account, from the lower ones, the local authorities, and then up to the Regions, up to the state's order and the form of government, thus guaranteeing full legitimacy to our history of local autonomy. At the same time, it is necessary to define an organic design, enough with sectoral interventions. The second is that I do not know whether it is merely a personal fact, but the electoral law should have been separated from this path, giving the modification of the same a priority effect and split from this history. [[Applause from Senator Mattesini]] The fact that I considered this procedure to be inappropriate probably, but I'm sure I'm wrong, risks putting sand in a gear to be tested. As far as the referendum is concerned, I have already said that I share the need to ask Italians for their opinion in a rigid and formal form: we do not change the Constitution without going over to those who maintain full sovereignty! [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI) and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u29	MARAN (SPI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Citizens' Choice will vote on the urgent procedure requested by the Government. To use the words of the President of the Republic, Giorgio Napolitano, we consider the reform process of Part II of the Constitution inescapable. At the same time we do not want to fall into the trap of making in our present institutional system the lightning rod on which to dump all the responsibilities of the serious shortcomings of politics. With equal Constitutions and electoral laws, some countries work well, others do not. The same experience as the Monti Government can of course be discussed on the subject, but no one can deny that it has been able to produce an intense government activity. 10:43 a.m. (Maran followed). If in a few weeks we have put on the field and approved - I say "we" because the parties that support the current Government are the same that supported the Monti Government - things that have been expected for twenty years is because politics has succeeded, in a whisper of emergency and conscience, to remove the brake that normally is imposed: that of not taking unpopular measures. So, let's make it quick, but we must also avoid that the theme of institutional reforms ends up absorbing all the political energies of this phase, especially if this means disarming or even slowing down economic and social reforms: especially if we do not understand the meaning of a great coalition like that which today governs the country, which is in the capacity to absorb the political costs better by each force. This is the essential point, because it is still a question of asking the Italians for a transformation, an adaptation (the world is changing vorticamente), which costs something to each one, but it is useful to all. Backup signals are not lacking. I think, just to give an example, of the redesign of judicial geography, with the reduction of the courts brought to completion by the watchmen Paola Severino. On this front we return to giving in to particular and corporate interests and, if we do, the country takes a step back. In fact - I remember only this - it is not true that in Italy too little is spent on justice compared to other European countries; it is not true that the Italian magistrates are too few, although it is true that they are badly distributed. Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands - just take a look at the data of the European Commission for the effectiveness of justice - carry out civil processes in less than half of the time necessary in Italy for reasons of similar content, committing public resources sometimes inferior to those of Italy. Progress must be preserved, because dispersing it would have serious consequences. No kidding, the Italian evils are deep. I say this in the words of the Governor of the Bank of Italy: We have not been able to respond to the extraordinary geopolitical, technological and demographic changes of the past 25 years. The adjustment required, and thus postponed for a long time, has a historical scope, with implications for the methods of accumulation of material and intangible capital, specialization and productive organization, the education system, skills, job paths, the characteristics of the welfare model, the distribution of income, the income incompatible with the new competitive environment, the functioning of the public administration. It is an adjustment that also needs the decisive contribution of politics, but the response of society and all the productive forces is essential. Something very different from the cry: "Enough austerity!" by those who aim for growth through the usual deficit spending. It is hard to get away with the idea that we must treat the economy not with patches, but with reforms that can reabsorb the competitiveness deficit. Even if Germany came out of the euro, the countries of southern Europe would remain with their problems of competitiveness and, therefore, productivity, which resolve by changing roles and expectations of both individuals and organizations. Having said that, it is precisely for these reasons that the reform process of Part II of the Constitution must begin. None of us are likely to support Thomas Jefferson's famous point of view, according to which Constitutions normally take their course over twenty years. What did he mean by that? Jefferson felt that living beings and not the dead had to forge the rules by which they themselves are governed. But each one of us - the Minister said in his introduction - also hears the wave of change. Our country is no longer what was called an industrial democracy, and neither was that country, still mainly agricultural, in which the political system and its constitution were originally conceived. This also applies to other countries. In the United States, for example, the partisan and biased stalemate has become the norm, paralyzing the ability of political leaders to act. As we know, then, in the Eurozone itself, the division about the solution of the debt crisis has called into question both the integration project and the European social contract, and in order to regain its balance Europe either goes back to the nation-state or goes all the way towards a political union. The question of how we come out of all this and how we build the future poses us with a paradox, because today precisely the practices and institutions that have worked so far are the greatest impediment to moving forward. It is only by recalibrating the configuration of the political-institutional system in order to build and establish good governance that we can avoid paralysis, the one we have experienced in recent years. To finally overcome the impotence to reform, therefore, there are all the conditions; there are all the conditions to succeed. So let's make it quick, and let's do it right. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and the Senators Ghedini Rita and Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u32	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this procedure seems to be no good to anyone, but everyone will vote for it. That is what seems to emerge from the speeches. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today we are called to express our vote on something that defines exceptional is a euphemism: we are called to vote on something unique, unrepeatable and extraordinary, in our view its most negative meaning. We are going to vote on the urgency procedure for a constitutional bill requested by the government itself, and here the first anomaly: the government's constitutional bill. Even more, there is a rush to change the constitutional text: the haste that, as we know, is never a good counselor. But let's get on with it. We will vote on an urgent procedure for a measure which is a clear expression of the Government, and therefore of this majority, thus demonstrating, without a shadow of a doubt, the perplexities that Senator Schifani had previously expressed, namely the difficulties, perhaps I would say the inability of this majority to speed up without this being imposed by a regulatory obligation. It is a force to speed up a legislative process - I repeat - proposed by the majority which, by its very nature, could already have the path paved, but which shows once again the incongruity and fragility of this majority in government. We are going to declare the urgency of a constitutional bill that provides for the reform of the Constitution, the reform of the ways in which the Constitution is amended. I repeat this phrase because its musicality clearly expresses the sense of the dilatory will in times and contents to throw smoke in the eyes. To modify ways of modifying using a long process in order to be able to start only after a short process of modification (but beware: not short in the time, but shortened in the procedures and in the competent bodies), which does not necessarily turn into a temporal shortening, indeed, but in a decrease of the prerogatives of protection of the constitutional text from the interventions of instrumental modifications carried out by transitional majorities. We will not now be called upon here to comment on the substance of the draft constitutional law in question, but the choice to decide whether or not to apply the urgency procedure cannot be without an assessment of the substance of the text. The concerns about the constitutional revision method contained in the draft law have already been highlighted in the text of the motion that I represent in the start of the constitutional reform work. The current constituent power, namely the Republican Parliament, turns out to have been elected by constitutionally flawed law. This circumstance, significantly weakening the moral and political legitimacy of the constitutional reformer, could have enabled the Chambers to intervene limited on some significant issues unanimously heard by the Italian people, but without disrupting the system of the form of State and the form of Government in force. It was also argued with conviction that, in any case, the institutional matter and the adoption of constitutional revision laws can only be fully resolved in the procedure referred to in Article 138 of the Constitution. The body empowered to reform the Constitution is one and only one, written precisely in the same Charter, namely the Republican Parliament in its own seats already governed by the parliamentary regulations, to which the electoral citizens are added by virtue of the possibility of holding a popular referendum confirmation. As far as the method is concerned, therefore, binding constitutional changes to institutionally and temporally derogations from those already provided for, as indicated in the draft law, in addition to being not in conformity with the constitutional dictation and the spirit of the Charter itself, it proves completely ineffective - remember the experiences in this sense in the course of the most recent republican history - by virtue of the inevitable overlapping of roles and functions of new organs with those already existing and operating today. Therefore, it is absurd and unreasonable - and irrationality constitutes a constitutionally relevant vice - to undertake the process of a constitutional law aimed at the introduction of particular organs with specific powers, since this procedure represents a clear intention for the papers outside both the Constitution and rational sense. Ours is a rigid Constitution, as some have mentioned, which as such stands at the top of the order, above all the laws both ordinary and constitutional. A constitutional law that derogates from the rule of closure of the Constitution, namely Article 138, would appear to be manifestly unlawful because it undermines one of the fundamental principles of our constitutional system: its rigidity. Once this principle is accepted, our Charter is transformed into a Constitution of a flexible type; flexibility that transitively could be considered to be expandable directly and indirectly to Part I of the Republican Constitution, in which the fundamental principles of civil coexistence of our democratic order are enshrined. In the rigid Constitutions the power of constitutional revision meets a further limit: the changes must not surreptitiously make the constitutional revision process flexible. The draft government law does not deal with the amendment of Article 138, but proposes a derogation from Article 138, which is macroscopically illegitimate because it is a surreptitious temporal derogation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This one-off derogation would allow the adoption of amending laws on the form of government, the relationship between the State and local authorities, bicameralism in a procedure different from Article 138. This derogation is therefore unlawful. It is known that constitutionalist doctrine considers the link between Part I and Part II of the Constitution indispensable and indissoluble, thus opening the way - this is what worries us most - to interventions on Part I of the Constitution, which contains fundamental principles of the civil coexistence of our democratic order, if deemed arbitrarily related to the changes of Part II. For this reason we will ask, when approving draft law No 813, that any intervention on Part I of the Constitution be expressly prohibited, and that this prohibition should not remain general. The delegation to a Committee, which for its composition, among other things, introduces a new criterion, such as that of the number of list and coalition votes received, which is intertwined with the numerical consistency of the Groups, in fact demonstrates the desire to upset the different balances existing in the two Chambers and generated by the popular vote, neutralizing the balances of this House which see the absence of a political force capable of representing a clear majority. The Committee serves to neutralize this Senate and the absence of a majority in this Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is an obvious way of circumventing the electoral outcome and frustrating the representativeness of the 5 Star Movement in the proper seats and in this Senate of its 8 million voters. Mr Quagliariello, I listened to your words; you said something important when you asked whether institutional reforms are a priority: if this is true - you said - you must do it quickly. There is the key: if this is true, if institutional reforms are indeed essential and priority at this time for the country. If for thirty years we have been trying to approve institutional reforms without achieving a result perhaps it is not that a priority for this country, in particular in this moment of crisis, that the Minister has told us and that in the other interventions has been highlighted. I conclude by telling a story: every morning an Italian citizen - an exodus, a precarious person, an unemployed person, a retired person, a Cassaintegrato - wakes up and has only one nail fixed on his head; all day he thinks only of a dilemma, it is that thing that does not make him sleep at night: bicameralism yes or bicameralism no? Presidentialism yes or presidentialism no? I believe that the priorities are others that do not address this issue at the moment. That is why, of course, we shall be voting against the request for an urgent statement. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u35	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr Quagliariello, the League would have liked to have done the reforms since yesterday, and therefore, if there had been one vote, we would certainly have said yes: let's do them now, let's do them well, so in the preamble I say that we will vote in favour of your request for an urgent statement. However, Mr Quagliariello, I would have said this if, after yours, I had not heard the speeches of colleagues, because I had the impression that the Government (and therefore you representing him) went one way and the majority who supported him went another way. Yesterday I read that he had his first meeting with the so-called experts. Well, from experience, I suggest you, Minister, as well as to speak with the experts, to try to speak more with the parliamentary groups: perhaps this debate would have been avoided or, better, would have been avoided in the form we are witnessing. I am convinced, as I have already said in the Commission, that the procedure must be speeded up. We will probably be able to make the first reading by the summer break. I advise you, which has not yet been done, to ask the House to schedule the measure in the bimonthly calendar because, as you well know, otherwise there is no possibility to ask for the quota of the times that will allow the approval of the definitive second passage to the House in the first week of August. There are, however, some concerns, which have already been pointed out in part, regarding the urgency procedure. I do not believe that Rule 77 of our Rules of Procedure has been written for the Government, because in all the passages where our Rules of Procedure want to indicate the Government it says clearly: "The Government" instead says: "by the proposer". I believe that the term 'proposer' may refer to a senator, a group, the President of the Commission or anyone who wants to, but certainly not to the government. But the Rules of Procedure are the same, and in this respect we want to respect them. In addition to the differences with the Rules of Procedure referred to by Senator De Petris, I believe that there is a non-formal but substantial contrast to Article 72 of the Constitution. In its last paragraph, it shall read as follows: The normal procedure of examination and direct approval by the House is always adopted for constitutional drafts and by those who should reform the Constitution I believe that the first thing is respect for the Constitution. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Then, for all the rest - for God's sake! - we'll try to make it quick. I have seen - and this is not the case - the Government's proposal that we have made to us: roughly, not in all, it incorporates the motion that we have adopted (i.e., I repeat, we will correct what are the differences with the motion) and it is, broadly speaking, I repeat; the photocopy of the law establishing the D'Alema Commission. However, at this point, if the powers conferred on that Committee are those of a reinforced reference office, as provided for in the Government's proposal, I wonder whether, if I wanted to do so quickly, it would not have been enough to approve in both branches of Parliament an amendment to the Rules of Procedure establishing the bicameral with the powers of the 5th The Commission, when examining the budget, then, in a week's time, instead of 90 days, we could have had our Committee fully functioning. There is something to be settled within the provision, some general term, some poor connection between one point and another. What I didn't expect was that the title was even wrong. This, given that today the title is under discussion in relation to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, I believe that if we have included, in several passages, the revision of the electoral law, not being the electoral one matter of constitutional nature, it is necessary to include the reference to the electoral law in the title and not only refer to the constitutional law. So, let's start well, we start by putting the dots on the dots. And, given the number of so-called essays available, I don't think it's a difficult operation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Of course I am concerned, Mr Quagliariello, because we left with 35 essays, then we added 7, the so-called editors, and so we are at 42: for a group that should help us reduce the number of parliamentarians, to have a number of experts that exceed that of the Committee, it seems to me an unlikely thing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Frankly, I can think of a joke - and I don't want the weapon - in which we used to say why the carabinieri were always two and answered: one law and one writes. In the countries of former royal socialism, there was a third controlling the subversive movements of intellectuals. Well, the two outside observers showed up yesterday, too! [[Laughter. Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] So, we've reached 44! That there are even overseers of Parliament's overseers, doesn't that seem a little too much to you? Will you have us stationed right now? It has already been not very nice to give a motion of legislative initiative only to the Government, subtracting it from Parliament. But look, Minister, that the Constitution has not yet changed: it is Parliament that gives confidence to the Government, not the Government that gives confidence to Parliament. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PdL, M5S and Senator Mineo Groups]] I'm confident and I'll keep hoping. But I wish I didn't have to get to the other saying that "he who lives hoping, dies..." And here I stop. Save me this illusion. Thank you, Minister Quagliariello. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u38	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reassure Senator Calderoli in the first place: the PD Group does not go any further than the majority. I think - and I hope it is demonstrated by the outcome of today's vote - that everyone in this House is aware that rarely, not to say very rarely, the request for urgent procedure and its resolution have had a higher political significance. This request and the relevant decision of the Senate, in fact, initiate the legislative process, that is to say, the process of institutional reforms. And they start it in a context that may never be as dramatic as it is today. 11:06 a.m. (Follows PAGLIARI). The country, in fact, has - and it feels - two priorities: on the one hand, the socio-economic measures, which must boost the system and recover from too many injustices, excessive imbalances and the innumerable lack of answers, and, on the other hand, institutional reforms, which must restore efficiency and, therefore, credibility to the institutional system and with it to the political system. I believe that it is universal awareness that the desert of the ballot box is the sign not of the victory of the anti-politics (concept that actually refuses, because it helps to hide political proposals all round, that aim to assume role and weight without paying the duty of the proposals of merit), but of a political question with the capital "P," that has not found answer and that, however, remains. And just the desert of the ballot box tells us that this time the responsibility that we go to assume starting the reform process has no equal in Italian history. Today, if it fails, there are not only the shaking of the shoulders, the confirmation of the negative judgment on the political class and its inability to reform and reform itself, but there are the answers of the definitive disillusionment and closure of every minimal openness of credit towards the political system. And what this has historically done is certainly not to be explained by me. And least of all, I have to point out to this House the level of the danger of maintaining democracy, when an institutional and socio-political system has been stressed and is stressed like the Italian one. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This condition obliges all political forces, who consider themselves democratic (and in this House no one has been called out), to testify before the country their behavioral coherence, to give their own - unselfish - contribution to reforms; yes, disinterested, in the sense that, as in 1946, the political-parliamentary forces are called to play for Italy and not for their own flag or for their own victory. The 1948 Constitution is a tangible demonstration of the responsibility of which they were capable of towards the country, separate, distant, antithetical and competing political forces. If DC, PCI and PSI, in particular, had allowed themselves to be guided by the imminent electoral horizon (the Constitution came into force on 1 January 1948 and the general elections - those of 1948, not any political election! - were celebrated on April 18 of the same year), if those forces had let themselves be seized by the electoral heat, Italy would not have even had the Constitution. This House, like that of the House, if it does not want to legitimize the re-enactment of the deaf and gray Chamber, it must be capable of an equal masterpiece. The distinctions of departure at that time, as evidenced by the work of the constituent assembly, were certainly not less important than what the debate on the media - I hope not in the institutional fora - gives rise to today. I think everyone is aware that planting their "flags" would not be a success, but a failure and, even more, that, if the game was to plant the "flags," the failure of the reform process would already be in fact. The country would turn its back on us and no one would deceive themselves from the failure of the process that we are starting today: it would not be so! We are all called - like it or not - to a real whisper of responsibility, to "throw our hearts over the obstacle," to feel ourselves constitutional legislators and not partisan legislators. We are all called not to give up our principles, not to betray them, but to play the confrontation on the plane of a true secularity. The second part of the Constitution must be revised; the efficiency of the institutional system must be realized; the overcoming of some solutions - such as perfect bicameralism, at the time the result of a compromise, or as Title V - is universally recognized as necessary, as well as the rationalization of the system. All this does not call to relativism, but to the confrontation in the open field, which is the most difficult, the most probable, because it does not allow to cover behind the slogans of the wars of religion, nor to route the whole in the perspective of electoral campaigns. They did not - I repeat - in '46-'47, we cannot do it now: like then, we cannot afford the luxury of failing. Nor can we deny that the "flags" are the easiest and most convenient tool to hide or the inability to face the confrontation or the will not to change anything: a perspective - that of change and reform - which, even with precise indications, was not denied even a constituent father and a determined and rational defender of the Constitutional Charter like Giuseppe Dossetti. I remember his lectio on Constitution and Reform delivered at the University of Parma on 26 April 1995, which also contains an idea of rationalization of the parliamentary system, which I believe should be resumed. Changing is possible and, in the current context, it must be understood that changing is "revisioning," as stated in Article 138 of the Constitution, and not "revolutioning." And then we exercise the right to decide our destiny, a right to which the power of constitutional revision linked a teacher of Italian constitutionalism, such as Professor Pace, on this basis denying that the rigidity of the Constitution excluded changes and allowed only minor adjustments. Moreover, it is not possible to fully understand the difference between "constitutive power," which is aimed at the establishment of a new constitutional order, and "constituted power," which can only revise the Constitution without altering its fundamental lines. That is to say that it is not all possible and sustainable in the context of the constitutional confrontation: there would be no distinction between the power of revision and constituent power. A distinction that has already been substantially incorporated in the first documents, such as the report of Minister Quagliariello and the act voted on 29 May, where it was chosen to talk about constitutional laws and reforms and not about laws or constituent reforms. The terminology may have been different, but if I did not misunderstand the conceptual groove it was this in coherence - I stress - with Articles 138 and 139 of the Constitution. And the proposed remodulation of Article 138 to be discussed at the place of business does not justify any different conclusions. The process that opens today, therefore, is not a sort of "freetan all" but obliges, within the framework of a rule of law, to identify solutions in compliance with the Constitution and not regardless of it or against it. This is not the place - I believe - to enter into the debate on the substance of the constitutional law and the merit of the reforms. This law will have the benefit of the urgency procedure, but there will be times and places for discussion and it will have to be the times and places of Parliament's seats, because Parliament is the only one that has the legitimacy to decide: it could only "displace" a constituent Assembly, and that is not the case. And since this is not the case, no one - indeed no one - makes the mistake of "tiring" Parliament, of not fully respecting it in its role, of forcing it, in some way, into mere rites. We take note of the Commission's sages and the Parliament's 40, but it would be short-sighted not to fully acknowledge Parliament's role: the role of a decision-making body and not merely a ratifying body. This I believe is also in the spirit of what the Government has proposed. I am sure that the principle of loyal cooperation in the process that is underway will find its optimal implementation. Don't be afraid! On this basis, Minister and honourable senators, the PD Group will vote on the urgent procedure, preparing for the "challenge" of the reform process and for the maximum collaboration with all the subjects of this difficult adventure.It wishes everyone - including himself - success, because - as already said - the country asks for it; because the country needs it; because politics needs it. No one will forget - the PD Group is certain - that the full success will be there only if, together with the reform process, the rehabilitation of the country, the revival of work, the response to the unemployed, the exodates, young people, families, new poverty and the productive world (the list is not in hierarchical order). This inseparable process of reform and socio-economic process is a sign of the depth of the crisis, but the crisis can be a great opportunity for politics and the country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u40	Senator D'Anna, explanations of vote are not provided.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u41	D'ANNA (PdL). I would like to speak in dissent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You, now, can only make an announcement of vote and not an explanation of vote, explaining what you will vote for but without giving reasons. D'ANNA (PdL). Then I give up the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u42	I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft constitutional law No. 813, submitted by the Government. It's approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask you to give me a moment's notice, since we have seen the outcome of the vote which is not very clear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is After consultation with the Secretary Senators, I do not see the need for counterproof, because the result of the vote is clear. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] In accordance with a practice constantly followed, the effects of the resolution just adopted by the Assembly will extend to all draft laws which are connected with that of government initiative on which the statement of urgency has just been approved. Therefore, the reduction of all time limits to half, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, will also apply to the additional texts connected with or unified in the course of the examination of Act No 813, to the competent Commission. On behalf of the whole House, after so many sad commemorations, I take this opportunity to wish our Secretary-General a happy birthday. [[Applause.]] And to balance with the outside world, wish also all those who are called Antonio, being today St. Anthony, a saint dear to me. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u45	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is never nice to speak when everyone leaves, but I would like to make you aware of a very serious fact which happened last night at the gates of Rome. It happened very late, and so the newspapers didn't report the news. Yesterday, late in the evening, an envelope with a bullet was found, with inside a card signed Â"The friends of Magliana", in front of the Focolarini of Castel Gandolfo, a small town at the gates of Rome, led by a very courageous administration and a splendid mayor, Milvia Monachesi, who fought, together with the previous Junta, to obtain a artifact kidnapped by the band of Magliana and who has just been entrusted for the work of a family home. That is a territory in which many women and children who are victims of violence need to be welcomed, and with great courage the administration has made this choice. It is clear that the authorities are investigating, and no one wants to anticipate what the outcome will be. However, at a time when we will shortly discuss the Istanbul Convention and the issues related to the IMU and the financing of municipalities, which must, however, bear heavy social costs, as in the case of family homes and escape homes for women victims of violence, it is appropriate for the Senate to show its closeness to these courageous municipal administrators and, even more so, to these women mayor, such as Milvia Monachesi, courageous in making these choices. We know, in fact, unfortunately, how often intimidation can hurt, especially in small centres where you feel lonely and where you do not feel so close to an organ as important as the Senate. So beyond what the police, the police and the magistrates can tell us about this bullet, it is still important to make our closeness felt. [[Applause from the DD and SCP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u48	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, I would like to join in the stigmatization and condemnation of the anonymous letter sent to the mayor of Castel Gandolfo, noting that, although it is a small town, it is the Pope's second seat in the world. We are talking about an envelope left in front of the focolarini; Chiara Lubich lived there, between Rocca di Papa and Castel Gandolfo. So there was a placement of this threatening letter at a highly symbolic point for us. It is true, in fact, that Castel Gandolfo is a small municipality, with little more than 5.000 inhabitants, but it is also a very important symbol. I believe that the closeness that today wanted to express Senator Cirinna, who joined the whole Senate, must make us keep our guard up. Lazio, as we have often said in meetings with anti-Mafia prosecutors, is certainly not free from dangers of infiltration: in this case it is the notorious band of Magliana, but many territories of Lazio suffer from infiltrations coming from the Camorra and the 'ndrangheta. I remember that we have seized property belonging to the Mafia in unthinkable places, in the most beautiful places of Rome and the Roman Castles, because with money you can buy everywhere. Vieppiù in this moment of crisis must be kept high guard, because at this moment of lack of liquidity are only perhaps illegal goods that give liquidity to buy very beautiful places. So let us welcome the solidarity of the Senate, but above all let us put in place together with the local institutions any action to give solidarity to the municipal administrations and to be close to the citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u51	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to point out what, I hope, is only a technical problem. At the 54th vote on 11 June last, I voted against. I note that this has not been recorded, as I had already pointed out at the end of the sitting to the Presidency itself. I therefore call for my vote against to be recorded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u52	Your vote will be recorded, of course.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u55	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking because I would like to bring to the attention of the House the news about the child who lost his life in Piacenza because he was abandoned in the car. A similar misfortune in all of us causes pain for the fate of little Luke and unbelief for the way in which he was consumed. Yet, it is not an isolated case. In the last fifteen years, four other times similar tragedies have been repeated, involving children, fathers and mothers, who have inflicted terrible damage. And of these five cases registered in the last 15 years, four have occurred in the last five. In the United States, on average, there are about 36 deaths per hyperthermia each year involving children. An increasing phenomenon that cannot be dismissed as the madness of a parent against nature, but that invites us to reflect and to carry out more general considerations on the psychic conditions of our population. The rise of suicides, of depressions (but here the depressed are few), of panic attacks or, as some psychiatrists claim for cases such as that of Luke's father, of disassociations of consciousness is not only, and is not always, the direct result of the contingent economic crisis, but is also, and above all, the slow and progressive result of an inhuman social, economic and cultural model. I therefore believe, Mr President, that attention to the facts of news such as this is essential to remind us that we must place the welfare of citizens, including the psychic one, as a true and main indicator of the effectiveness of our policies and of our institutional commitment. Above all, I call for a concrete commitment to car manufacturers and specialist companies in order to find and market devices that have the function of preventing misfortunes such as that which has happened and which has been mentioned in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Di Giorgi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-41.ana.u56	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 11.28 a.m.
