ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 17 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,03 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u4	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council on 24 and 25 October 2013. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Enrico Letta.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this House several times in recent months (in the last six months, as far as I am concerned) we have talked about Europe that is not enough, we have talked about Europe that ends up resigning itself to its contradictions, about Europe that has lost its soul at the mercy of endless discussions on procedures, vetoes and acronyms that are incomprehensible to citizens. We talked about Europe that the word'solidarity' has written it in the Treaties, but that it is not able to exercise it when one of its Member States is in difficulty. The European Council which opens on 24 October is an opportunity to resume the thread of that Europe of solidarity. It will be so for the issues on the agenda of the European Council that had already been set before, and it will be so especially for the new issues that, because of the tragedy in Lampedusa, have been added and that, at our request, have become one of the key points on the agenda. Faced with the tragedy of Lampedusa, we cannot conform to that "globalization of indifference" on which very hard and appropriate words have come from Pope Francis. Even more so, we cannot allow it to be transformed into the Europeanisation of indifference. Europe cannot stand by: if it stops to watch as a mere spectator, Europe dies. He dies together with the hundreds of men, women, children who lose their lives while seeking an opportunity for salvation or ransom, away from their home and their country. The Union has been distant on these issues for too many years. Today he begins to make important progress. A few days ago, Commission President Barroso and Commissioner Cecilia Malmström came to Lampedusa and decided to immediately mobilise additional funds for 2013. I am grateful to them for this demonstration of attention, as I am grateful to the President of the European Council, Herman Van Rompuy, for accepting the Italian request to put the issue of immigration into the Mediterranean at the top of the priority of this European Council. I hope that these decisions will be followed immediately; that we do not stop at words: the commitment of the Italian Government will all be directed towards this. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda we are about to discuss in Brussels on Thursday and Friday will be varied and very articulated. There will be five key points of the Council: the digital economy, innovation, economic and monetary union, economic and social policies and, indeed, the issue of immigration. It is part of the new philosophy of the European Councils, based on the centrality of a theme, which has led and led this European Council to have the digital economy, the single market, telecommunications and innovation as its heart for many months. We believe that this philosophy, aimed at making the agenda of the European Councils very concrete, is an important philosophy for bringing Europe closer to its citizens. But I am starting from the issue of immigration, which is by far the subject that we are most concerned about today. Unfortunately, the facts and the numbers of the drama in the Mediterranean are known. They do not admit hesitations, they do not allow further delay. From the beginning we Italians have strengthened the operations of patrol and rescue at sea, launching the military and humanitarian mission Mare nostrum. Italy has fully assumed its responsibility: so does a great country, aware of the role it must play in the Mediterranean area; so does a great country like Italy, regardless of the decisions of other European countries. Any diplomatic or military effort needs, however, the cooperation of the other European States and, in particular, of the Mediterranean countries. That is why we are in close contact with France and Spain, for the preparation of the European Council on Thursday and Friday. Yesterday I had the opportunity to meet Greek Prime Minister Samaras and, shortly, I will go to Malta to meet Prime Minister Joseph Muscat. I apologise to the Senate and to all of you if I will be absent for a few minutes, to go to meet another Minister of Foreign Affairs here in the Senate, within the next two hours, and tonight, at 7 p.m., I will meet Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu, who comes here to Rome to talk exactly about these issues, as well as about the peace process in the Middle East. What is missing is the awareness that the whole of the European Union must feel this emergency as its own emergency, this problem as its own problem: the Sicilian coasts and the island of Lampedusa are not the Italian periphery, they are the outpost of the continent, the common and violated border, the first edge of Europe. We will bring to the Council the direct, frightening testimony of what is happening in the Mediterranean, with a very clear thought: no one is deceived that these tragedies are occasional episodes or destined to end with the arrival of bad weather. They are the epilogue of a mass flight from war, poverty, violence, terrorism, the lack of a horizon of survival; they are the consequence of the uncertain, and in some ways betrayed, prospect of the so-called Arab Springs. None of the European countries can do it alone. Every time what happened in recent weeks, the bell rings for everyone: for the united Europe and for each of its Member States, even the furthest from the Mediterranean. In the face of all this, we must have the strength to escape from the simplistic solutions, from the banalizations of which public debate too often feeds. We must demonstrate the wisdom first of all to distinguish between immediate responses, depending on the emergency, and responses instead of medium and long-term ones. In simpler terms, some concrete actions can and must be decided immediately, by Italy and by Europe; other changes need, instead, more time to be truly effective. To distinguish from each other and to modulate their respective responses concerns the Italian and European political leadership. For all these reasons, we will ask the European Council for four specific commitments. Firstly, the recognition that the drama of Lampedusa and the Mediterranean coasts is a European issue. In order to avoid repetition, Europe must absolutely do more and the spirit of common responsibility and solidarity laid down in Article 80 of the Treaty must be applied. Without this recognition of departure, any other decision is absolutely impossible. Second point: immediate measures to implement the European surveillance network at the external borders, Eurosur, on 2 December - the planned date of departure - and to strengthen Frontex's operation in a very strong and marked way, with the start of a major operation in the Mediterranean and the increase of the resources allocated by the individual Member States. In this regard - I say this incidentally but with a great sense of solidarity and thanks - we must be grateful to two countries, two small European countries, Slovenia and Finland, which have made available their own means (Slovenia a vessel of their own), for the operation Mare nostrum. [[Applause.]] It is the sign that there is European solidarity, which we must certainly make stronger, but these are encouraging signs - I hope exemplary - for other countries as well. Thirdly, we ask that the Italy-Commission Task Force, which will be set up on Thursday - and will begin to function just next Thursday - be opened to the other Member States concerned, to draw up an action plan for the management of the migratory emergency in the Mediterranean, including the strengthening of Frontex, the fight against trafficking in human beings and, above all, cooperation with countries of origin and transit. These proposals will have to be submitted to the December European Council in order to become operational decisions there. Fourthly, we want the European Union to invest its full political weight in dialogue with its Mediterranean neighbours. This serves to better integrate migration issues into cooperation agreements, conclude mobility and security partnerships with States on the South Bank, and facilitate the return and resettlement of migrants to countries of origin or transit. Beyond the specific and immediate measures - I have mentioned those which can reasonably be brought to positive conclusions at the next European Council - it is clear to all that the drama we are experiencing calls for reflection on the common asylum and immigration policies of the Union. On this reflection I believe that the contribution that the Senate can make, also through its Commissions - I had the material of the Commission chaired by Senator Manconi - is absolutely decisive and fundamental. We all have the perception that today there is no adequate level of response of our system of rules. We will therefore call for a new immigration and asylum policy to be discussed in the coming months when the Union is called upon to define the strategic lines in the area of freedom, security and justice for the next five years. We will work closely with the Greek Presidency in the first half of 2014 with the Italian Presidency in the second half of 2014. We developed a joint working group between Greece and Italy, just yesterday afternoon, when Prime Minister Samaras came to us. The Mediterranean and asylum and immigration policies will also - as I said 20 days ago in this same House, when I asked for confidence - be at the heart of our six-month Presidency of the Union. Turning back to the issues that were previously at the heart of the European Council, I mentioned first the main chapter of the meeting on Thursday and Friday: the digital economy. This is the first time that the Union has dealt with this matter with such a solemnity: it had never been mentioned as the main theme of a Council. In Brussels, we will deal with this in four different ways: the truly single market for telecommunications, the issue of e-commerce, the issue of new online services, the theme of the Digital Agenda as generating new jobs through the development of new skills and the Digital Agenda as the main reform of public administrations, European and national. I start with the first aspect, telecommunications. Twenty years ago, Europe had absolute leadership in the mobile sector, resulting in a long period of growth in demand and investment. Today the sector, on the contrary, is in great suffering, with the saturation of the market and the lack of the conditions necessary to maintain a high level of investment. At the same time, the strong acceleration of digital services in all sectors of the economy, from services to industry, to logistics, allows for new growth spaces. Why this chiaroscuro? Because European regulation has opened up national markets, but we still have 28 markets with different rules, regulators and administrative practices. We no longer stop - it is true - at the borders to show a passport, but we receive, every time we pass a European border, a text that tells us that we have to change operators and pay for roaming. The United States has four operators, China has three operators; in Europe there are 100 mobile operators. The cost of non-Europe, calculated on this issue of size, is about EUR 110 billion: an impressive figure, which is charged to consumers, businesses and, in general, to Europe's competitiveness. The basis for discussion will be the Connected Continent package presented by the European Commission. It contains an ambitious proposal for a regulation for the completion of the single market in telecommunications. On this, Italy will be the bearer of a message of trust and encouragement to achieve a shared vision of the digital future for Europe. Digital and logical infrastructure must naturally be based on physical infrastructure. We will strive to ensure that the sources of European funding, from the Structural Funds and Connecting Europe Facility, are more geared towards the construction of broadband and ultra-wideband networks. The other big side is that of online commerce. In this field, there is a potential still largely unexploited in Europe and Italy. We will endeavour to get a clear message from the European Council on the need to overcome those many bottlenecks. Very sensitive issues will also be discussed in this area: the protection of personal data and the taxation of transnational Internet operators. We will also address the issues of the delay in the digital skills of young people, businesses and public administrations. It is the people and the knowledge of the legs on which the digital world of the future rests. We believe in the importance of this dimension, so much so that we have put in the decree on school that important rule on wireless in schools and school building. Let us be clear: this is a battle to create employment. Over the next two years, without adequate skills, we can have almost one million jobs not covered in digital: a paradox absolutely intolerable. Finally, the Digital Agenda is the main structural reform of public administration. It is the platform for modernising public administrations; it is the shock to return efficiency to services, reduce costs and mitigate gaps between citizens; in this, the Italian Digital Agenda and the European Agenda are naturally aligned. From a national point of view, in recent months the Government has given a new impetus to the Digital Agenda, giving a unified direction to the Presidency of the Council, in the person of Commissioner Francesco Caio. I will bring this experience to the European Council, because the same transformation must also take place at European level. Common minimum standards of digitisation of public and private services and interoperable digital infrastructures at European level mean moving towards a true digital union based on European digital citizenship. The third issue of the Council will be, as I said, innovation. The starting point is clear: Europe is rich in potential and has an extraordinary tradition of research, yet we lose ground in global confrontation. The Council will have to give a signal that research and innovation cannot be sacrificed on the altar of austerity alone. We must transform European scientific and intellectual potential into truly marketable products and services. Today this does not happen, there are bureaucratic obstacles, and the European Council must give the impetus to a more coordinated use of all existing European financial instruments. We must complete the European Research Area. The objective is to achieve an area without borders by 2014. This requires a change of pace. Today there was a nice speech by two Italian MEPs, Amalia Sartori and Luigi Berlinguer, who spoke together on this subject asking for a Maastricht of research, according to a formula already presented to the European Parliament. Here we are talking about the mobility of researchers, the portability of social security and pension rights, the portability of funding, open access to results obtained through public funding and, above all, greater interaction between the 28 national research centres. We will be fighting on these issues from the Council meeting, and we intend to bet on them in the Italian Presidency of the European Union. The completion of Economic and Monetary Union is the fourth major theme of the Council. Thursday and Friday will be an intermediate stage. According to the scheme agreed in June, the debate will focus on economic union and, above all, on banking union; we will begin to address it with a first approach which is also, and is a very important fact, the social dimension of monetary union. The European Council will return to all four chapters in December when concrete decisions are to come. However, I do not want to underestimate the current passage. The euro area needs greater convergence between national economic policies. If combined in a coordinated way, structural reforms have greater effects. Instead, with the crisis, the divergence between economies and economic policies within the euro area between North and South Europe, and within the same countries between the different social classes, has increased further; not to mention all the general inequalities that we face. On this point we will bring a clear message. We have a scheme, the European Semester and a set of governance rules that can deliver good results. The way out of the crisis is not to build new cages of procedures, monitoring and new sanctions; it has never been and will never be the purely intergovernmental model. The way forward is to strengthen the unified vision of the problems and to create a better balance between what the surplus states are asking for and what the deficit states are asking for. We will fight to move towards a genuine economic policy of the euro area, as a basis for distributing the adjustment effort between each Member State. We will reiterate a long-standing orientation: there can be no progress in strengthening the surveillance and coordination of national economic policies without the creation of financial assistance mechanisms to facilitate the implementation of reforms in countries in difficulty. Sacrifices, discipline of public finances are necessary, but they are justified and acceptable politically and socially only if there is then the reward, the positive turn. To get out of the crisis, the right path is the one that combines greater responsibility and greater solidarity. We also have before us the completion of the banking union as a major issue. After the final approval of the Single Banking Supervisory Mechanism, which will become operational in twelve months' time, the ground for comparison today is the creation of a single bank resolution system, as proposed by the European Commission in July. There has been a discussion between those who want an intergovernmental mechanism, in which each State can veto decisions relating to its national banks and those, including Italy, who demand a supranational mechanism guaranteed by a backstop with European resources. The Government will fight for a political clarification that will lead to confirmation of the timetable agreed at the December Council. The proposal for a single resolution mechanism will have to be adopted by the end of this parliamentary term of the European Parliament; it must not go to the next European Parliament. The same attitude will apply to the exercise of the overall assessment of bank assets, to which all European banks in the euro area will have to submit in 2014 so that the ECB can assume the new tasks as a single supervisor. Here too, we will remember that European instruments must be put in place to safeguard the market from unnecessary crises of confidence. The European Council finally addresses the social dimension of economic and monetary union. This means recognising the social impact of the crisis on rising unemployment, on growing poverty, on growing inequalities. These are not minor concerns with respect to tax targets or competitiveness: they go hand in hand, if not even ahead. Therefore, the aim is to introduce a new social scoreboard and greater consideration of social variables in the analyses that build on the recommendations addressed to all Member States, and this already starting from the next cycle of the European Semester. We believe in the need for a more balanced approach between economic and social and labour policies at European level. We were pioneers in this when, in June, in Rome, we held the meeting between Italy, France, Spain and Germany at the level of Ministers of Economics and Finance and Labour Ministers, together: this was the first time that such a thing had happened. The same formula was replicated by the Russian Presidency of the G20 in St Petersburg, and it was good: more and more Ministers of Economics and Finance and Labour Ministers must have the same central role in European decisions. The European Council will also take stock of the progress made at three sites opened last June, which are very close to Italy: combating youth unemployment; financing the real economy; reducing the weight of regulation on businesses and citizens. On the youth unemployment front, the European Council will take note of the state of implementation of the European Employment Initiative, which will have to be fully operational by January 2014 and will draw attention to the need for a rapid implementation of the so-called Youth Guarantee, the European Youth Guarantee. On this, the Government is finalizing its National Plan, which it will transmit in due time. Meanwhile, the incentive scheme for the recruitment of young workers has started, as a result of the decisions taken at the June European Council and which has led, since 1 October, to the click day for the use of the funds that we had made available in June, to 11,800 requests at national level; 11,800 young people, thanks to these rules, will now have an indeterminate job, thanks to these policies and thanks to the choice to put the issue of the fight against youth unemployment as the heart of European and national economic policies. It is the sign that this is the right way. It's a first step, it's too little, but it's the way we started to beat, and we have to take it all the way. As you have seen, ladies and gentlemen, this European Council will deal with a complex set of subjects: is there a red thread linking them all? I suggest two subjects which, in my opinion and in our opinion, will be the guiding principle, and which we must bring to the attention of the public these days. The first is the great concreteness of European policies that we must put in place. According to the Eurobarometer, a large majority of European citizens do not know what Europe and the European Union are for. We all know this drama of role in the perception of European citizens today. The Council must demonstrate by the facts that Europe is dealing with practical matters. Roaming tariffs, e-commerce, business access to credit, migration management in a more effective and supportive way, the mobility of European researchers, the digitisation of public administration: concrete things, not acronyms, not incomprehensible titles. The second common thread must be the word integration, the most integrated and better integrated Europe. No state today has the size or ability to handle the challenges of a global and complex society. Only together can make a difference. Let us talk about the future of telecommunications companies, about relations with the Arab Spring countries, about financing the economy, about overcoming national fences and opening up to a European perspective. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we have an opportunity to move forward now, just as we will have the opportunity next year, with the Italian semester, to turn the progress made in these difficult months into a preview of a real revolution in the way we perceive and live the united Europe. You have heard me mention it several times in this speech: the Italian Presidency of the European Union will give us the opportunity to be in the front row in building a Europe of peoples, which can really demonstrate to its citizens that it is the most ambitious, forward-looking, concrete political project of the post-war period, to return to the horizon of peace, prosperity and modernisation. I would therefore like to start with this parliamentary debate to start developing the common priorities of Parliament and the Government for next year's Italian Presidency. I will listen carefully to the debate, so as to find the most useful indication for the real agenda of the semester, which we will discuss together in the coming months here. Ladies and gentlemen, we must get ready for that appointment, strong of the many sacrifices that Italy has faced in recent years, proud of our Europeanism not of a facade but concrete. The United States of Europe is the dream of many of our generations, represented here. Step by step, wisely, starting now, preparing ourselves well for the management of that semester, we have the historical opportunity to give body and substance to this great ambition. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI - MAIE and Senator Anitori.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u6	I would like to inform the House that motions for resolutions No 1, by Senator Bitonci and by other senators, and No 2 by Senator De Petris and other senators, whose text is being distributed, have been tabled. Any other motions for resolutions should be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u7	Mr President, we have heard from your report that the Council of Europe has a lot of fire meat, perhaps too much, but we hope that at least something can be cooked: the digital economy, the single market in telecommunications, the opening up of markets and services, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, economic and monetary union and banking union. We hope, as a parliamentary group, that, in addition to the titles, we will really achieve something concrete, because we have a serious disease that is going around Europe: it is anti-Europeanism, which is bound up with the various populist movements. We must convey the image of a perceived Europe, and Europe is only perceived if it solves the problems of its citizens. The issue of young people is an important test, and I believe that the Government's commitment to present, within a few days, the national plan for implementing the Youth Guarantee is essential, so that the European Youth Employment Initiative can start from 1 January next year. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is a matter of urgency and I would therefore like to focus very quickly on three points. The first one. Pope Francis - she recalled - speaks of the Europeanization of indifference: it is necessary, as a Government and as Italy, that in this Council we concentrate to urge an extraordinary plan of intervention in the Mediterranean. I read Commissioner Malmström's interview this morning. (you thanked her and did well to thank her): the Commissioner recalled that asylum applications in Italy are scarce compared to other countries and asked that the conditions of the reception centre in Lampedusa be recorded. I agree with the Commissioner on both issues. Frankly, however, I consider the tone that she used in the aftermath of a tragedy that highlighted the role of Italy and the solidarity of our citizens with those who suffer. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and the Senators Finocchiaro and Sangalli.]] We were the only ones to put in place a concrete initiative such as that of the Mare nostrum mission. We do not accept that, in the aftermath of such a tragedy, such an irreverent tone should be used towards our country. It's not acceptable! The terminology used against our country is completely inappropriate. We know that more needs to be done, that the European external border surveillance network must be put in place; we know that Frontex must be strengthened; we know, above all, that if we do not cooperate with neighbouring countries, we do not understand the great geopolitical issue on which Europe is alone. I think it is clear to all of you that today the great energy match has also changed the connotations of American engagement in the Mediterranean: today the United States of America are in very different conditions than a few years ago; they have in perspective a potential energy supply that makes them much less dependent on Mediterranean issues. So, we need to handle firsthand a reflection of the Arab Springs that is likely to be dramatic because of the impact it has on the Mediterranean. In this respect, we must make it clear to Europe that, as it has done for Eastern Europe in the aftermath of the fall of the Berlin Wall, it is now facing an emergency: that of the Mediterranean. It is not an Italian issue, it is not just a humanitarian issue: it is the fundamental issue on which Europe must demonstrate whether it exists and also give a signal to European citizens. I quote your words, Mr Letta, and I come to the conclusion of an issue which is very closely related to Mr Saccomanni. She says: We have a scheme, the European Semester, a set of rules, - the six pack, the two pack, - which are giving some good results. The way out of the crisis is not to build new cages of procedures, monitoring, sanctions. Then he adds that, for you, this means being strict with ourselves, but Europe must change its policy. That is the fundamental point. I am very disappointed that, after the great German coalition that is taking place, the risk is that it will not change the score and that the music will always be the same. We are asking for new cages, new procedures, even invasive ones in relation to the determination of economic policies: but, in return, what is Europe willing to do? It is a fundamental issue for us, for Italy, because our country, with the Monti Government before and with the Government Read today, he proved to make sacrifices, to do homework. But we need to change European politics, not just in terms of rigour (which is particularly functional in Germany), but in terms of changing music, which is totally inadequate. I would like to make one last point which I also address to the Senate Presidency, as the President of the House, in my capacity as President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs: on 25 June 2013 in this House we approved a document which commits Italy to organise, by the beginning of 2014, before the next elections for the European Parliament, in agreement with the other States and institutions of the European Union, the meeting on the future of Europe, namely a major conference of national parliaments and the European Parliament. Mr President, you have not spoken about this. We will be at your side in the six-month period, but today we have to undo a knot, which is an institutional knot but also a serious knot. We have talked to President Chiti about it, because it also involves his Commission. Organising this meeting in the Greek Presidency, before the European elections, seems to me to be very difficult. So, or we repeat this commitment and we move very quickly also at the parliamentary level, not just to organise yet another meeting, but to create a European event such as that which Mitterand organized in 1990 and which opened the way to the Maastricht Treaty and to the new major European achievements (but, if we want to organise this meeting within three months, there is the absolute need to start by changing pace) or we must organize it in the European Semester at the Italian Presidency, at the end of the year, having a longer period of time available. I believe that this is a very important issue related to the commitments of the European Semester. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups and Senator Colucci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u8	Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u9	President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, I would like to speak on a point which I consider to be important about the policy ideas you have set out. You have spoken about issues that are not much discussed, but that I consider of substantial importance for the overall growth of the competitiveness of our country in the international context. Finally, after years of darkness, we realize the value of the new objectives for research and innovation: an area without frontiers for research by 2014 and minimum conditions to get it out of the sterile and self-celebrative national enclosures. Thinking about cutting funds for research on the indistinct altar of spending review has proved to be a wrong political choice. A clear reversal of the trend is therefore desirable. We have come from a time when defining the dark is a euphemism, in which, to mention a few cases, the structural funds in Brussels for the period 2007-2013 for the regions were squandered or even not used, as Johannes Hahn, European Commissioner for Regional Policy, himself pointed out. This doesn't have to happen anymore. As we approach the next financing 2014-2020, the strategic policy for the use of investment will have to become increasingly targeted. The priorities must be investments in research and technological innovation, both university and business, which not only promote training and professionalism adapted to European standards, but also represent a vital pathway for youth entrepreneurship, for the fundamental linking of research centres to small and medium-sized enterprises, for the full implementation of energy efficiency projects and, therefore, for competitive production. When you talk about the objective of introducing a new consideration of economic policies and social dynamics within the EU, I hope that this crucial challenge will be addressed in order to combine sustainable growth and rising employment levels. [[Applause from the Mixed-GAP, PD and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u10	The mayor of Isernia is present in the gallery to attend the assembly, accompanied by members of the City Council. We greet him and his city. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u11	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u12	Mr President, I thank and appreciate the immediate activation to help people in extreme suffering. I really hope that these words will not remain that way or become a useless flow of money, because, as you rightly mentioned, Mr Letta, in your speech, we are experiencing a moment of great suffering, both social and economic. Before we make a leap forward in Europe, we must do so here in Italy and also in Parliament. We cannot do this just in words in Europe: we must regain credibility and, to this end, I believe that the only way is to make the structural reforms you so much talk about and that Europe is asking us so much. Structural reforms, however, must be shared with Parliament. So far you have gone on with the issuing of decrees whose burdens, among other things, are never covered. I take the example of the labor decree, which is covered only by the flows coming from Europe and not by the part that belongs to Italy. I take the example of the decree on feminicide, in which, in view of the great urgency, you have also included the characteristics of the new uniforms of the forest, which will certainly be very important, but not very relevant to the subject under discussion, in a decree-law that is not covered at all. In the 5th Commission, when we asked for explanations on this matter, we were not given the technical report; then the Deputy Minister Fassina came directly to ensure coverage, because the State Accounting Office refused to bully it. If we are really talking about making a leap forward in Europe and being a great country, as you mentioned, we really must be one: not just in words, but in fact, especially before here in Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scavone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u14	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the rich agenda of the European Council on 24 and 25 October, I do not think that there is ever too much thought about the drama that has been experienced over the past few weeks and that we continue to consume in the Mediterranean and the need for our country to be able to outline a renewed strategy of attention, precisely following the tragedy of Lampedusa. Justly what happened recently in Lampedusa has been called a European tragedy. It was probably merely intended to stress that Italy should not be left alone to deal with the problem of assistance to migrants. On the other hand, I believe that the one in Lampedusa can be considered a European tragedy, but because the European Union bears its direct responsibility because of its volious, confused and obnoxious Mediterranean policy. Relations with the Mediterranean have always been of great importance to Europe, particularly in the last twenty years. In 1995 the European Union took the initiative to establish the Euro-Mediterranean partnership and in 2004 launched the European Neighbourhood Policy, in which the first was merged. Both of these policies, however, also for different reasons, leave their protagonists unsatisfied. The Euro-Mediterranean partnership has been politically burned by various determinants, especially by the progressive deterioration of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The European Neighbourhood Policy is a bilateral policy to which only a few southern Mediterranean countries will cooperate, so that the idea of strength of departure, which was that of a large regional community, is fragmented into a bundle of individual relationships that make this initiative useless. Overall, the dramatic phase opened up by American intervention in Iraq and the low profile that Europe maintained in that season towards those events, lacking the necessary political cohesion, ended up weakening and discrediting the Mediterranean policies of the European Union. Today the situation has become even more complicated. The weakness of Arab institutions, structural risks which undermine internal stability (such as low national income, very high unemployment rates and strong social disparities) and poor interracial economic cooperation undermine the foundations of possible stability. And if there is a constant and incessant process of integration between the Member States of the European Union, we have two sides: on the southern eastern side we have a strong fragmentation and disintegration; but also on the northern side the interest in the Euro-Mediterranean partnership has never been homogeneous. Italy, France and Spain were the only promoters of the Barcelona Conference. Britain and Germany, on the other hand, were more interested (or interested only) in Eastern Europe, also in view of the enlargement of the European Union to the east. Thus, the European Union is represented in the Mediterranean almost exclusively by the Frontex initiative. Perplexity and remarks have been made in the past about the uncertain legal framework in which Frontex has found itself operating, particularly in relation to the scope of its powers and the sharing of responsibilities vis-à-vis the Member States, but also with regard to respect for fundamental rights, not least the principle of non-refoulement. According to this principle, Mr President, it is forbidden for States to expel or reject refugees whose lives or freedoms may be endangered, especially when national particularisms and interests prevail, even in situations where the management capacity of a single State is insufficient. Despite the affirmation of solemn principles and the existence of legal instruments available, it is clear that the political responsibility of the Union, its absence, failure or insufficient response continue to raise serious and general concerns. I therefore call on you, Mr President, to stress with absolute emphasis the need for Frontex's action to be part of a renewed strategy of attention to a human tragedy that continues to take place in the Mediterranean. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u15	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u16	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are a credible and capable person, but for our country to benefit from your capabilities it is essential that you represent a credible country in the European and international context. You, in the last thirty days, have often used the word "stability" as a value: I believe that the word "stability" is valid, but that the credibility of the country is perhaps even more so. Exactly a month ago Germany voted: a party had almost a majority of parliamentarians, but there were two or three people left to form the majority, and then they decided to open a collaboration, they started to discuss and they are discussing. No one urges them to make haste, but they start from the assumption that, as they say, clear long friendship pacts. The Monti Government and the Letta Government were formed within three or four days and obviously time to detail the programs, to discuss the details of the government action there was. That's why there's discussion. I very much hope that the law of stability will be an important opportunity for Italy to have a serious and valid three-year programme. Senators Azzollini and Sangalli, respectively President and Vice President of the Budget Committee, encouraged this House to be concrete and to find valid solutions a few days ago, approving a measure to the Senate during the explanation of vote. Well, I think that the law of stability should be an important occasion. I expect cooperation from the senators and from the government. This coalition consists of different parties, which have different ideas, otherwise they would not have different parties. It is essential that we discuss in depth, that we find compromise solutions, but a high, concrete compromise that finally succeeds in laying the premises for this country to come out of the swamp in which it is located. As far as the problem of Lampedusa is concerned, I believe that discussions on whether or not the Bossi-Fini law is valid are a bit pretentious and dated. Compared to when the law was passed, the world has changed: the countries of Africa and Asia, from which these unfortunate people come, have a dramatic sociopolitical situation. We do not know how it will end, but we know that they come to survive, not with the mirage of being better or attracted, as was said then, by television broadcasts or by the sequins of dancers. The socio-economic situation in Italy and Europe is different: many Italians today have to emigrate to find work. I hope, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you will be able to make Europe understand that this is a fundamental opportunity for Europe: Europe has the opportunity to show that it has genuine ethical values and that it has the possibility of being perceived by European citizens as an organisation that is based on values and deals with people's problems and not as a bureaucratic organisation, tending to place constraints and obstacles to the economic development of the continent. I think that the question of Lampedusa as Europe's frontier is a decisive issue. Your words here, in the Senate, and the words you used this morning in the House of Deputies, we fully share. Please be able to make it clear that this is the strong feeling of our country and it is an opportunity that the European community absolutely cannot miss. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u17	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u18	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have heard from your report that at the European Council on Thursday and Friday next, more issues will be dealt with, all of them of extraordinary importance. In this brief speech, I would like to focus mainly on two of these issues: the digital economy and innovation. It has become almost a rite to say, at the approach of a European Council, that the outcome of the European Council will have a decisive impact on Europe's future. We have repeated this many times in these two years of crisis and then every time we deny it. But I believe that the next European Council could really be a decisive turning point for Europe, in the sense that a positive outcome could generate a strong boost to the revival of Europe's future growth, beyond the macroeconomic policies that will be decided there. From this point of view it is clear that we will be called to play, as a country, a role of primary importance, even if it will not be easy, because the obstacles to achieving a positive result are really many and many stakeholders who are interested in that on the subject of the digital economy and innovation, in reality, do not make decisive progress. We have long known that, in most advanced economies, information and communication technologies play a key role in the development of innovation processes and, above all, in the growth of advanced countries. Of course there are many important technologies, but that of information and communication has the characteristic of being a technology - as it is said - "abilitating": it is a kind of pipeline of innovation. In the absence of these pipelines, the innovative activity suffers from serious deficiencies and also becomes ineffective. This means that, when progress is made on digital technologies, it is true that there are direct effects (of which we are rightly talking), but there are also indirect effects that involve a whole range of more or less innovative sectors and that are even more important than the direct impact that can be achieved on these technologies. It is not risky to say, although not many have noticed, that what the digital economy is generating, in terms of changing the modes of production and distribution of wealth at national and global level, is as important as the transformation of the economy following the advent of electricity in the 19th century. Therefore, it is precisely this strategic role of information and communication technologies that makes us understand how worrying it is that Europe has accumulated in the face of the progress that has been made in the United States (and we know it), without forgetting that in reality there are countries in Asia and the Pacific that have wagered on these technologies the possibility of a qualitative leap in their growth path. I am not reporting data that are known, but just remember who dominates many of these markets today; just mention names like Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon: they are all giants of the American economy. There is not even a name that remembers Europe. If we ask ourselves why these delays are taking place, because Europe has failed to keep pace, of course the causes we can list are many, but it is right to mention, above all, the fragmentation of European markets, the fragmentation of the European digital space. There are more than 1,200 telecom operators in Europe; European prices and tariffs at national and regional level enable thousands of segments to be identified. Is it possible to compete under these conditions? The answer is very clear: no. You can't compete with giants and markets like China or the United States if you don't have the ability to build a unified digital market. But what does it mean to build a unified digital market? On this point we must understand ourselves: it is not just a question of removing barriers, which would already be an important result. Building a unified digital European market means moving at three basic levels: infrastructure, of course, because we cannot be content with broadband that is already obsolete compared to ultra-wide bands used, for example, in South Korea; broadband is already something inappropriate. So infrastructure is important, it is a necessary condition, but Europe's delays are on the other two levels of the unified digital market. How is this infrastructure used? In Europe little and bad is used. In other words, the capacity to use the infrastructure is in many cases as important as it is to have an infrastructure endowment. Then, a fundamental problem for Europe is to build a capacity for use. Of course, digital literacy and the fundamental theme of building a demand that is up to the infrastructure that is then created are included in this context. The question in this case comes mainly from the public administration of the various countries. After the infrastructure and the use of the same, however, there is the third important level: use to do what? Here, the infrastructure must be used to allow an increasingly innovative service supply that can meet needs, a demand that changes over time. This level of services, which passes through a renewed network, is equally or not more important, and of course concerns businesses. In this case, Europe's delays are once again linked to a still scarce capacity to aggregate because we are unable to create those so-called agglomeration economies that would be crucial from this point of view. Then, the possibility of accepting this challenge is fundamental, but let us bear in mind that it is won not simply by looking at one of these three aspects, but by trying to bring the theme of "more Europe" to each of these three levels. Of course, the European Council on Thursday and Friday will be a first step, but it will be important to decide whether there will be a new path towards a new direction, or whether a series of communications or fine words will simply refer the whole thing back to the next parliamentary term, postponing, in fact, once again, in some way, for a period of time that will become extremely expensive at this point, the possibility of starting to catch up. That is why I believe that the emphasis on these issues has been very right, and it is important that our Government should make a full effort in this regard. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u19	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who have listened to us from outside, from a long time ago, since the economic crisis began, all we do is use foreign terms to define the existing state of affairs - spread, fiscal compact, spending review, credit crunch, digital compact - these are difficult words, aren't they? - or pseudo-Italian terms, such as the Stability Pact or the fiscal shield. I wonder if it has happened to President Letta - whom I do not see in this Chamber at the moment, but then perhaps he will reply - to ask any citizen, Mrs Maria or Mr Mario, who might even be in this House, what these words mean. I, as a normal citizen, have done so and I do so every day, but out of respect for the institution and for your respect, colleagues in this House, I fail to report the response that the citizens give to these terms, but I leave room for your imagination. Let's take one at random: the fiscal compact. Technically it stands for: Stability Treaty on the coordination and governance of Economic and Monetary Union. This act was promulgated by the President of the Republic, Giorgio Napolitano, not twenty years ago, but on 29 July 2012, and was voted by both the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, I do not know which of you colleagues was present at that vote, but of course the political forces you represent were present, so it can be said that this act was voted by you. This is a very simple act: a measure which limits the sovereignty of individual countries in the field of economic and social policy for at least the next twenty years. By making four simple calculations, this means that the Italian debt, amounting to about 2,000 billion euros, will have to be reduced by about 1,000 billion euros by 2033, with a reduction, that is, of 50 billion euros per year. I repeat: EUR 50 billion a year! And I assure you that Mrs. Maria or Mr. Mario, who may be in this Senate, know what that means. This means cuts in public services, cuts in schools, hospitals, housing, infrastructure, courts and everything that is part of our lives. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this shows that these last governments have managed to confuse the Italian people more and more, to tear it apart and to make it a marginal part. Here, now we are talking about emergency Lampedusa and we are talking about that natural beauty, which is at the center of the Mediterranean, like a border area. This is probably the result - I am about to finish, Mr President - of this policy for which you and not us citizens are responsible. Mr President, allow me a few seconds to speak about jobs as well. The President called it the click day, saying that as many as 11,000 jobs were created: 11,000 out of three million means, in percentage terms, zero comma something. Nothing, Madam President, nothing! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u20	The government is obviously widely represented. President Letta - as he announced during his speech - briefly abstained from the Chamber to attend a meeting with a Foreign Minister, organized in the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u21	On behalf of the whole Assembly, I greet a Croatian delegation present in the gallery, accompanied by their diplomatic representatives. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u22	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u23	Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council has approached two apparently very distant issues in his speech, but in fact in their own way they are closely linked, which will be on Thursday and Friday on the agenda of the European Council. This is the dramatic issue of immigration, on which, apart from the unpleasant tone - Mr Casini is right - which we have heard from the European Commissioner, I believe that our country must make very firm use of Article 80 of the Treaty. From this point of view, given the success that has had the formula of no to globalization, indeed to the Europeanization of indifference, I believe that our country must signal, from Thursday and Friday, with some European satisfaction, the fact that two small but important countries, Slovenia and Finland, have already given their willingness to be part, among the immediate measures, of the coast surveillance network. With regard to this issue, the tragedy is that we have not been able to think in European terms about the problems of the borders, in this case the problems of the coasts. There was an excess of selfishness, particularism and sometimes cynicism in boasting of the magnificent and progressive fates of the Arab Springs, which all were except springtime movements and which led to escape from wars, escape from misery, escape from malaise. As far as the digital economy is concerned, quite little has been done and enough has been done. Mr Paleotti is right when he says that there will also be a liberal European regulation in every single legislation that has opened up the markets, but the markets are still 28. Therefore, the President-in-Office of the Council has rightly pointed out how much non-Europe, non-Europe, is costing in this area. And in this regard I would also like to take up the statements made at the end of the speech by President Letta, when he referred to the usual Eurobarometer research: the figure of those citizens who wonder what Europe is doing more and more and integration is really poor. In order to add optimism, in his speech Mr Casini told us about the appointment with anti-Europeanism, that is the end of the elections in Europe in a few months. But from this point of view we must also stress institutional failures of the idea of Europe. In 1979 we voted for the European Parliament for the first time, but there is still no common law. The prospect of electing the President of the Commission as a leader of a European Government, or at least directly indicating by voting, is still quite opaque. As a result of the institutional debate, in some countries, for example in Germany, we spoke explicitly during the electoral campaign of failure of the Europe of the Regions and the elimination of nine Länder was envisaged, while, Mr President, in our country we hypocritically trace the issue of the elimination of the Provinces and we are pleased with twenty Regions. I move on to the very last consideration. That extraordinarily fascinating theme of Europeanization of research, European mobility of university and after university, we have stifled it with the specialized anguish of the postgraduate institution in Florence. Those chronicles of last night on the news, with the Minister of Education surrounded by precarious Calabrians who asked for favors and privileges for their university, to which you replied, I must say with national pride, are in opposition to this perspective. Hence a whole series of concerns, but also the right-duty (my colleague, Mr Casini, has done well to remember this) to resume, precisely in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, that issue on which the Foreign Affairs Committee has been committed since before the summer. [[Applause from the LAG and PdL groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u24	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u25	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are obviously also convinced of the importance of our country and also of the responsibilities arising from taking over the Presidency of the European Union. We believe that Italy, as the founding country of the Union, could play a significant and not irrelevant role in the debate on the guidelines for the reform of the Treaties, first and foremost, and on those measures with which we intend to react to the depth of a recession that strongly affects the European economies. I have used parole, not by chance, because the communications we have heard from you today, moreover with the usual politeness, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and a month ago by Minister Moavero Milanesi in a joint session of the Chamber and Senate Commissions, unfortunately lead, beyond some aspects that we believe are also acceptable, if these, of course, remain the intentions expressed, not to be too optimistic about the underlying guidelines. First of all, starting - if I may say so - with some things we would have liked to hear and which, on the other hand, we have not yet heard. It seems to us that the Government's commitment is still lacking in a perspective and that it is too marked as a passive adjustment to the given framework. I would like to start with something that I think should be at the heart of our political debate: the issue of the reform of the Treaties, which, moreover, now has a great deal of space in the European debate. It has now been agreed that a reform should go in the direction of greater fiscal integration and the banking system. The wide-ranging debate on these reforms certainly does not escape: on the one hand, the tendency to confirm what we have called for so long, at the cost of stewing (but let's say this evening), the dogmas of the authority, which impose an extreme rigidity that translates into a real credit crunch; on the other hand, the greater flexibility, which others (even many economists, now) would want to grant, i.e. providing for the possibility of public intervention for the recapitalisation of banks. It is the same dry alternative that we have been discussing for some time now in Europe. And it cannot escape how the confirmation of a rigid orthodoxy of rigor can compromise the building of Europe itself. In other words, subjecting state budgets to an even stricter control mechanism in order to automatically result in even tougher sanctions, as emerges, for example, from the guidelines recently expressed by the German Registry, we are very concerned about the repercussions on the economic and social situation of the most exposed countries, including, unfortunately, Italy. We believe that this misunderstanding must be resolved quickly when it comes to European debt mutualisation. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have said these things this evening, and I have listened to them, but it would be a good idea to raise a clear voice in relation to these guidelines. In other words, we cannot deal with the great issue of reforming the Treaties, even when we are going to discuss them in the European Council, simply in a notary spirit. In our view, we must try to build elements of consensus between the countries of the Union not only with respect to this point, but also with respect to the reform of the Statute of the ECB, which is no less important. Without imagining a different and more incisive role than the monetary transaction mechanism put in place by President Draghi, we believe that it will be very difficult for the architecture of the euro to remain as it is, and we are very much concerned about this. Then we would like Italy to speak up for this debate with incisiveness, and instead it seems to us that they are considered irreversible, beyond some statements that we also share, the basic rules of austerity which, as we know, by imposing a very important share of the primary surplus on the reduction of the surplus by a twentieth year compared to the 60% ratio of public debt with GDP, in our opinion, make the consequences for the economies already exhausted by the recession devastating. We would like to have a debate on the renegotiation of these rules, which we believe to be improvisedly incorporated into the Constitution; it really seems to us to be a matter of common sense. We also feel that the proposals put forward on welfare, employment and education are insufficient. On the contrary, I hope that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will deny me what I am about to say: it seems to us that some issues and measures are being implemented for the sole purpose of making the movement of workers on the perimeter of the Union easier, almost as if there were an incentive to resume a sad practice, which unfortunately our country has known for many decades, namely that of emigration from weaker countries to countries with stronger economies, even if in this case within the framework of the Union. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The damage caused by a crisis that more and more resembles a long stagnation we really think requires something else. We think that they call for a major project first of all, and we have said so several times in this House: a project to convert the European economy into a social and environmental sense, first of all; a project to rebuild economies like ours, which in five years saw 25% of its productive base pulverized; a project not only to bring back to work those who lost it, but also to finally take on the generation that survives invisible in the folds of an increasingly closed, increasingly waterproof society. We also believe that the fight against financial speculation, which is at the root of the crisis, should be continued to the full, with effective taxation of financial transactions at EU level, capable of returning resources to be committed to income protection measures, including through experimental forms of citizenship income. In short, we believe that we can no longer resign ourselves to being spectators of what has been authoritatively called "the killer of the possible," where the possible is a Europe with an advanced, socially inclusive, solidarity economy, whose benefits are intended for everyone and not just for some. A Europe capable, for example, of living immigration as a resource and not as a fear, not just patrolling our sea [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] What is useful if it serves to save human lives, we would miss something else, but imagining structural responses to this great phenomenon of our time: for example, by repealing racist laws, which are still in force in many countries. Just as, even with regard to Italy, we do not tire of saying that a new immigration policy in our country passes also and above all from the repeal of that shame called Bossi-Fini. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group and Senator Campanella]] Let us imagine, as I said, structural responses to this great phenomenon, for example, by offering refugees and those fleeing from wars legal routes and safe ways of accessing Europe, as well as integration programmes that also improve asylum procedures. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is too much risk that among the peoples of Europe - many of whom, moreover, for many decades, fortunately, have been experiencing an unprecedented season of peace, after hundreds of years of wars - impoverished and shocked by the collapse of their living conditions, we can affirm a populist solution which, in some way, imagines the closure of national spaces as a defence. It's a serious risk. I think this would really be a point of no return. I am sure that you feel the same way as we do, because like us you think of the dream of the great Europe. I ask you, then, to take a shot of your kidneys: I really ask you to change the record of what has happened over the years. We are convinced that a breakthrough is necessary and possible and that the policies of all these years must be fully rethought. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S and Mixed-GAP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u27	Mr President, I start with a reflection, also referring to what Mr De Cristofaro has just said. If anyone had the courage to adopt the motion for a resolution that we tabled when we adopted Community law, there would be no immigration problems such as those we are experiencing today. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Mr President, we tabled a motion for a resolution which corresponds in everything and for everything that the Government wants to represent in Europe today. The problem, however, is always the same: the ideological approach prevented the left-wing majority from approving our motion for a resolution. But so much so; in hindsight we can say that we were right again this time. Our reflection certainly starts from the observation of a narcotic country that is waking up abruptly. We have read in the newspapers in the past months the description of an economic situation emerging from the crisis, almost as if what we say about how one lives in the real world is an emerit fantasy. Instead all this is coming to fall certainly because the veil cannot hide the weakness of the majority over a certain time, but especially because people do not make it anymore. Today we ask you to go to Europe and be more convincing than your government's economic policy has been in recent months. To be convincing, however, we must also be credible and, in this regard, frankly, we must make bitter reflections. We know very well, in fact, that if on the agenda that you will be discussing at the European Council we will talk about economy, growth and economic and monetary union, just as strong will be the questions that will be asked about the credibility of the economic policy of your Government and in general of the country system. On this point - alas - I fear that you will find it particularly difficult to justify, for example, how there can be a situation whereby the 50 billion euros allocated to the country have been spent only in part, for which 28 billion euros still remain to be spent, of which 21 in the South of Italy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This shows that there is a country, driven by politics that has no real awareness of what resources are available and how to put them to good use. Unfortunately, Mr President, it will also have to deal with the credibility of foreign policy, which does not make the government shine. I am referring once again to the long story - alas - of the maròs left in India, to which there is still no solution to today. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If, then, industrial policy were to be discussed, Mr President, I believe that it will hardly be possible to justify a situation such as that which arose at Ilva or, again, as regards Finmeccanica or what happened with Fastweb in recent days. Newspapers are read abroad. Maybe we do not read foreign newspapers, but in other European countries they are interested in what happens in Italy. And it happens that a company that has led Italy to be among the first countries in Europe in terms of broadband penetration has been put at risk, and Italy today is backward as to broadband penetration. And this is because of irresponsible devastating judicial actions on the economic system. It happened for Ilva - we saw it - and it happened for Finmeccanica. This is the government action that will find it difficult to justify. How can one remain passive with respect to a power of the State that overpowers others? And so we must say, of course: in Italy we know that the judicial system has problems; we also know that the European Union has for a long time detected an infringement against Italy for failing to implement the provisions on the civil liability of judges. It is on these issues, Mr President, that you will be asked to be credible. Our country is a country that fails to implement the policies required by the European Union. I imagine how difficult it will be to justify a situation such as the one leading to indult or empty prisons, with law enforcement that will come out massacred by the financial that you are about to bring to Parliament, with reasons under heels, with the continuous promises of simplification. We are talking about the digital economy, Mr Letta, but I invite you to come to one of the many small municipalities to find out if they have something trivial at their disposal: the electronic identity card. It has led our municipalities to spend money over the years without even having today the electronic identity card that is in the hands of many Eastern European citizens who come to us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] This tells the paradox of a country that is considered to be at the forefront but that in reality has fallen behind with the pace. And how can we justify the bureaucracy that stifles? Several times we have heard the call not to make laws, not to overlap them, but may I make an important contribution to the Government: enough with the decrees-laws! Let us make planning in time, as Europe does, starting before the problems arise and going to make impact studies on the policies that the government wants to implement, otherwise we will only make laws on the wave of emotion, after which the citizens will have to deal with an economically difficult reality, and that becomes unsustainable because bureaucracy adds another weight to it. And how can we justify, Mr President, a country in which companies are asked for an advance of 103 percent on what they have not yet earned, with all the uncertainties, that will probably not lead to even having business income in the following year? We would also like to hear something more important about the application of linear cuts that are devastating the municipalities. Enough with these policies, President. Let us show Europe that we know how to find out the realities of bad spending and bad government nesting in our country. And all this must be dealt with with with very practical and unideological, not with that ideology that characterizes, for example, the approach to immigration. I would like another right to be affirmed, not to the reception of the immigrant but the right of the immigrant not to leave his country, the right of young people not to emigrate to other countries, starting with our young people. And here I am still referring to the policies that the Government has put in place even to encourage the movement of young Italians to other European countries. In the face of this, I wonder: how can we be credible, Mr President? How can one be credible in a country where on state television a well-known evader is hosted in prime time by taking him for example and putting him in front of everyone and showing that who is evader gets away with it? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] (17.36) (Follows CANDIANS). This is not a serious country, President: it is a country that you cannot represent seriously in Europe, because Europe asks us for rigour, but we are certainly not able to guarantee those policies that in other countries are guaranteeing an economic recovery instead. We do not oppose it regardless, we have always said so. We want to stimulate responsible action in the government to give recovery, work, to cut the cost of the economy. Take a look at the North. Mr President, come to one of our small companies, those that do not ask for state intervention, funding for Europe, but less state, a company that asks this government for simplification. This is a question on which he must point in Europe and say "we" we have, otherwise he will simply go for a nice parade, like the one he has done in the last few days before Obama, perhaps managing to deceive... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u28	Senator, finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u29	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). However, you have stated that you have not written on the forehead "game". Mr President, know that we and the people who are suffering for the economy in difficulty have not written on the front of the table and on tobacco. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u30	Senator Catalfo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u31	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about new occupations in ICT, education and training in this field. He spoke of a new social objective, a more balanced European approach between social and economic policies. The Government, President Letta, insists on talking only about youth unemployment; it has just spoken of 11,800 young people inserted by a decree. I would like to remind this House that this is a decree made on a European scale and that it is not possible to encourage employment, whether youth or not, solely and exclusively on a European scale. Unemployment in Italy affects not only young people but the whole Italian population. In the near future, it will be the intermediate group of workers, i.e. between the ages of 29 and 65, who will create a real generational, fiscal, social security and unfortunately social gap. The lack of current attention to this population will condemn any long-term development policy and will make all those employment-enhancing projects and programmes unnecessary, including only 14% of the resources of the European economic programming 2014-2020. (17.40) (Followed by Mr CATALFO). One cannot think that these could be the resources to deal with the very serious employment crisis in our country. The figures in the SVIMEZ reports paint a very serious picture: 17% of unemployment in the South, 28.5% of under 25. I remember that the employed in Italy, according to the statistics ISTAT, are equal to 22 million and 516,000, but the data must be read correctly, in the sense that at the moment of the statistics is considered busy who is working for an hour weekly, but this person is not to be considered a full-time employed. I still remember what you said at the previous meeting on the topic "Destination Italy", a plan wanted by the Government to create a diversified legal and procedural regime in favour of foreign investors. This creates a double protection track depending on nationality. That cannot be the basis on which to build the United States of Europe. Our citizens would be forced to take advantage of inefficient institutions with long and cumbersome procedures. We are committed to re-entering foreign capital after selling out our strongest companies, but our scholars, researchers and workers continue to flee this country because there is no hope or certainty of a job. You said that too, Mr President, that we cannot sacrifice research and innovation on the altar of austerity. I had so many other things to say to her, but the time at my disposal is over, so I will finish. Mr Schäuble says that the Stability and Growth Pact is sufficiently flexible, but at the same time he says that it does not open up employment investment from the Member States' budgets. But then, what flexibility are we talking about and how do we want to deal with the employment crisis and Italian companies? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u32	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u33	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, today's speech by President Letta could not but start from a subject of dramatic topicality: immigration. Of course, we have not missed the firm and pressing intervention of all the authorities of the European Union so that we finally realize that the issue of immigration and refugees does not only concern Italy - let alone the island of Lampedusa - but must be the subject of an authoritative European intervention. We appreciate the news you gave us. We will appreciate even more the determination, which you have already announced, with which you will face the European meetings in the coming days. Frontex's policy has so far been inadequate, limited, bankrupt. The very location of its offices in a decentralised area compared to the places of greater commitment shows a bit of distraction in Europe, which will have thought more of satisfying some "bells" than of acting directly. We also want to make it clear that the repercussions on national legislation do not require decisions on the wave of emotion, the dramatic stages of life these days, death and emotion, because if there is a problem of refugees and wars in Africa and the Middle East, this must be addressed by the international community. The actions of the States you have mentioned are commendable, but the problem is that of the distribution in the reception of refugees, of the revision of the continental rules, of the costs, which are not only the human and social, dramatic ones, but also the economic ones of the reception policies, distinguishing between those that face the emergency and the reception of the refugees and those that concern the fight against illegality. In this regard, I believe that - and I say this to the whole Government and to the President of the Council - the words which the Vice-President of the Council and Minister for the Interior has spoken in defence of the legislation in force must also be confirmed, certainly by addressing the issues that must be addressed, including asylum. On this point, the Council of Ministers has recently spoken. There is a dynamic vision of legislation. But this does not mean completely lowering the guard against other phenomena, also because today in a newspaper often contested and criticized, "The Daily Fact" there is an interesting analysis, that I mark them, on the various ethnic groups and militias that contend in Libya the control of the territory. I remember when that war was decided a couple of years ago. The Italian government of the time held back, and there was a controversy, because it was said that Berlusconi held back out of friendship with Gaddafi. The international community is strange: it left Gaddafi unpunished in the 1980s, at the time of Lockerbie and an involvement of that dictator in international terrorism, and then waged wars in stages when democracy was lacking in Libya, but perhaps Gaddafi's responsibilities were less serious. Many Members have already said about the Arab Spring, the illusions, the destabilisation in Libya. They were serious mistakes, which Italy tried to put a stop to in some way. When you recently met, not the last time, but the previous one, President Obama, it seems to me that the latter told you that Italy should have provided for the disarmament of Libya. A little nemesis, having made colonial adventures a century ago in that part of Africa. I have seen his prudence in the initiative, because the human and economic costs of a disarmament managed by Italians of the various Libyan militias, with a Libyan Prime Minister who is kidnapped in the morning at six and at eleven returned by those same militias, would be problematic. We must defend Italian legislation and demand the international involvement to which you have referred. Quickly on the telecommunications market. We have also put forward proposals with regard to takeover bids in Italy and rationalisation processes. Too many operators in Europe in a restricted market. The market will move a lot, and then internal regulations must also be adapted (network control and other aspects that are not now the time to deal with), in that focus on a single communications market. On these issues, and on many others, we are sure of your commitment, of the commitment of our Government, of the stimulating and guiding action that Parliament will also want to take with you, including with attention to Europe and unfair competition. There is a crisis in European manufacturing industry: the world is global, but we have welfare, social rights and social security rules, and competition must be open to those who respect the same rules. Therefore, we do not want protectionism but competition in equal weapons. This is an issue that Europe can no longer evade. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u34	Senator Manconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, I very much appreciated the President-in-Office's overall communication system and, in particular, some considerations. And I greatly appreciated that definition of Lampedusa as Europe's outpost. It is not just an effective image, nor is it just an acknowledgment that honors Lampedusa and the lampedusans. That definition can be the heart of a possible common policy that leads European countries to share the responsibility and weight that now weighs entirely on that island. But I also appreciated an important reflection, which says that no one should deceive himself that this movement of human beings, these people, women, men, children and the elderly, who cross the Mediterranean Sea, is a transitional phenomenon, which can be blocked quickly either by bad weather or by occasional measures. This is exactly how it is: that movement of human beings has well-known reasons and roots, which refer to the world's structures, which refer to unequal exchange, to perverse relations between rich countries and poor countries, to non-development. They refer to the persistence and reproduction of dictatorial, despotic and authoritarian regimes, and still refer to the perpetuation and reproduction of situations of humanitarian crises, famines and droughts and tribal, ethnic and religious wars, of persecutions that have lasted in some cases for decades and decades. But if all this is true, the measures that the Italian Government has taken in recent days, which it intends to take and which it intends to propose to Europe are all useful, all valuable and all sacred, but they risk not being sufficient. The work of containment and control and that indispensable, necessary and inescapable work of rescue is once again precious, but it is not yet sufficient, and it is not, precisely because it risks not considering the set of factors that determine those movements of millions of men and women. If in these days and in these weeks the question of migrants and asylum seekers has played this central role in the public debate in our country and not only, it is due to a precise fact: it is due to the fact that on October 3, before Lampedusa, there has been a massacre, that is that the long, infinite theory of deaths that from 1988 to 2011 saw six, seven people that every day that God sends to earth die in the Mediterranean to seek a chance of salvation, of life and of the future on the Italian and European coasts, has become as thickened in one day, in that massacre. We cannot escape this crucial crux, which is represented precisely by the crossing of the Mediterranean. It is that crossing that constitutes the mortal trap, which constitutes that grave where dozens of people die daily. In these days, together with the mayor of Lampedusa Giusi Nicolini, we have drawn up the first draft of a plan, a project still in its initial state, which we want to discuss in depth, submitted to the public debate, which we presented to the Head of State yesterday, which showed great interest and which you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have had the good pleasure to recall today. Well, that plan contains a very simple device, at least on paper, which is certainly difficult to implement, but which, in our view, is a serious hypothesis, which can radically change an immigration policy which you have described as being seriously inadequate. If today one of the most grievous needle hairs is represented by the crossing of the Mediterranean Sea, we have assumed that the demand for protection, the demand for a possibility of salvation, those people can place it where their journey begins, or where those migratory flows pass, in those countries (I think of Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, the Maghreb countries) where large movements of people are found and where the European Union can establish its garrisons, and through its Service for External Action and through the diplomatic network of embassies and consulates can examine and evaluate those questions, it can grant a temporary measure of protection that allows those human beings not to undergo that terrible test that is the crossing of the Mediterranean under those conditions that we know. We could thus replace legal and safe travel with those illegal and bloody journeys that are taking place today and we could take away at least part of those fugitives, those asylum seekers, from human traffickers. You see, we know how difficult this project can be to carry out, how much the other European countries can prove to be backward or greedy, but we know that today we have no viable alternatives, and then we want this route to be taken into consideration. Surely we will not be able to stop the total traffic of human beings, we will not be able to cancel the deaths in the Mediterranean, but we will certainly be able to reduce the number of victims, and I really do not believe that this is a minor objective. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE groups and Senator Mazzone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u36	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. In addition to the motions for resolutions No 1 by Senator Bitonci and other senators, and No 2 by Senator De Petris and other senators, motions for resolutions No 3 by Senators Zanda, Schifani, Susta, Ferrara Mario, Zeller and other senators, No 4 by Senator Calderoli and other senators, and No 5 by Senator Taverna and other senators, the texts of which are distributed. I call on the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Enrico Letta, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u37	Madam President, I thank the House for the depth of the debate I have heard, apologizing to Senators Santangelo and Warriors, who I have not had the opportunity to listen to for a meeting here in the Senate with an international personality. I apologize in advance if a few minutes before 7 p.m. I have to return to Palazzo Chigi to meet President Netanyahu. We have heard, I believe, a very strong debate, interesting and focused on extremely concrete issues. Therefore, I believe that Senator Compagna's concern - the Eurobarometer, the difficulty of judgment, the credibility - may have found a few more ideas today. I say this because those who have listened to today's debate have listened to very concrete issues, closely linked to life, to everyday activities. Important topics have been touched on, such as research, by Senator Gambaro, or the question of insufficient policies on the Mediterranean, on which Senator Scavone was deeply entertained. There is also the theme of the Digital Agenda and the telecommunications market, addressed by Senator Gasparri. Like him many others have indicated the possibility that our country can push more to make the single market of telecommunications more concrete and functional. This objective is certainly also part of the commitments we intend to make. Senator Catalfo first mentioned the issue of European funds for youth unemployment. I would like to say that it is true that European structural funds have been used to cover them, but because they were European structural funds intended for Italy and aimed at providing employment. So, the goal is exactly the right one. I believe that this is a fair aim, precisely to meet the absolutely acceptable concerns expressed by Senator Bulgarelli about the fact that the covers are safe and that the will on our part is not only to address the problem of youth unemployment, although it is no small thing that we have been able to mention in this House the figure (which is not an abstract figure) of the 11,800 people in the flesh who, thanks to the measures that this Parliament has approved, have today obtained an opportunity for permanent work. Young people do, but they are not the only measures that have been put in place. I am thinking, for example, of the measure, which has always been put in place by the Labour Decree, on the use of the social shock absorber ASPI (Social Employment Insurance), aimed at allowing the entrepreneur who hires those who benefit from it to have the same tax benefit for the remainder of the period, in order to encourage entrepreneurs to recruit unemployed people: not only young people, but all ages. Then there is another measure, incorporated within the Stability Act, which encourages the transition from contract to fixed-term contract for an indefinite period. The end of a fixed-term contract and its transformation into an indeterminate employment gives the entrepreneur a tax advantage. This is one of the objectives on which our Government has moved from the very beginning. Indeterminate contracts and long-term employment should be encouraged. You will find in the law of stability this forecast on tax incentives in the transition from contract to fixed-term contract to permanent contract: this is definitely one of the points, on the topic of work, that we want to address. It is true that on this issue too there are many improvements that we must put in place. Senator Candiani mentioned earlier the issue of structural funds and their misuse. In this regard, Senator Candiani, I wanted to mention earlier precisely the fact that the good use of those structural funds, which had been badly hijacked and then reused for decontribution, allowed the recruitment of young people, to whom I referred earlier. This today certainly represents, especially for the South of our country, a very high priority, one of those that I believe should be put on the field with great attention. Senator De Cristofaro spoke before the need for a more radical attitude of exchange in Europe. I know that this is a very important point and that it is a request that comes from our country, especially from that part of our country that lives the crisis with greater difficulty, but the radicality in the choices that are made then needs the results. I think that our highly pro-European approach is radical, radically pro-European, and I know that only through such measures can we achieve objectives that are essential for our country. I do not think that we can have a shy attitude on this issue: we have never had shy attitudes; it is clear that the objectives we must achieve need a credible country. Here comes the theme of stability. Senator Carraro mentioned exactly these concepts before and I take them back because they are the basis of the choices we make and that we have to make every day, choices that are not simple. I shall conclude by addressing immigration issues, which have been referred to by many of my colleagues who have spoken. I particularly recall Senator Manconi's last speech to say how much I find absolutely in tune with the approach he expressed. This of the drama of the night between 2 and 3 October is something that we have asked for, we have strongly wanted and we want what happened at European level to be the turning point of the "never again": a turning point that allows Europe to realize that the approach can only be different, precisely because you said before, Senator Manconi: it will not be the arrival of bad weather that will change a situation. In fact, since it is a situation linked to countries that are failing, it is certainly not the bad weather that curbs the arrival of people who struggle for life. I believe that this approach makes our country capable of saying these things forcefully and living them within it. I demand that Italy put the Mare nostrum initiative on its own, because we are a great country, which acts on these issues because it believes: a country that has some principles and spends money that are necessary because these principles and values are written in our Constitution. We believe that the values written in the Constitution must apply our country regardless of the moments, the difficulties and - let me say - political conveniences, which at this moment have nothing to do with the issues we are discussing. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and the Senators Pagano and Scavone]] Then, the effort we will make at the European level will be to achieve results, to ensure that the turning point starts from the October Council and arrives at the December Council discussion with concrete facts, and that above all it makes it possible for the two Presidencies, Greek and Italian, to arrive at effective turning results that allow our country to manage these events with the necessary attention, so that actually the Mediterranean policies - Senator Scavone mentioned them before - do not stop in 1995 but resume on a totally new track, because the Mediterranean has returned central, and this return of centrality must have an absolutely necessary protagonism in Italy. I shall end with the point mentioned by President Casini, concerning the issue of parliamentary meetings, to say how much on our part - and I am thus interpreting the idea of the whole Government and the action that we all want to put in place - the protagonism of parliaments is fundamental in this matter. Let me conclude with a reflection, which perhaps goes beyond the merit of what we have talked about today, but which touches precisely on the question of the role of Parliaments. The role of the parliaments, in the ten years behind us, had been slowly exhausted or reduced. It seemed that they were doing all the executives, that they were the heart of politics, in all the European countries, and that therefore everything was in the hands of the Executives. On the other hand, we have discovered a reality, so the story of Syria has been incredibly indicative: the British Parliament has changed its government's line and President Obama has asked its Parliament to be the protagonist. In my view, the fact that this Government has always decided to make Parliament the protagonist of foreign policy and of all other policies comes back with great force: this is the sixteenth time I come to Parliament, in six months. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Senator Anitori]] , and not because I am particularly attached to the life of Parliament, because in these classrooms I have lived and have seen its importance and role, but because today we realize that, at a time when public opinion is absolutely necessary for the credibility of the choices made, the role of parliaments ends up being essential. Therefore, the European question of progress towards greater European integration or through the protagonism of the European Parliament and the national parliaments, or else, if it comes only from a push of governments, will be a failure. I have no doubt that this is a process on which the future of our idea of Europe depends: it is no coincidence that the most advanced draft idea of European integration was written by Altiero Spinelli and approved by the European Parliament in 1984. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senator Naccarato]] in a logic in which the protagonism of the parliaments was at the heart of everything. That is why, even if it is not a competence of the Government, but of course it is a competence of the parliaments, we will do everything we can to push the parliamentarians to meet - and meet at the right time - in order to ensure that next year this turning point takes place in a Europeanist logic and, above all, with the protagonism of the parliaments. That is why I am here to give an opinion in favour of motion for a resolution No. 3, by majority, signed by Senators Hope, Schifani, Susta, Zeller... VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Zanda! Mr LETTA, President of the Council of Ministers. Zanda, I'm sorry. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senator Naccarato.]] On the other hand, I am a Member of Parliament and not a Senator: it is seen from these small défaillances. CASINI (SCPI). It can get better! Mr LETTA, President of the Council of Ministers. I can get better, okay. I'll try to improve. On the other hand, I am against the other motions for resolutions. I insist that this centrality of Parliament - and I am convinced of this - is not rhetoric today, but it is substance: it is one of the policy lines that our Government intends to pursue, and I am convinced that, thanks to Parliament's protagonism, this will be much more concrete. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u38	I would like to address the Assembly's greeting to a representation of students from the High School of Jesus and Mary of Rome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u39	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u42	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as the Grandi Autonomous Group and Freedom, we greatly appreciated your reference to the speeches by Senator Compagna and Senator Scavone, who are the synthesis of what we think is important for Italy to represent at the next European Council. I would like to remind the House today that other landings took place in Portopalo last night, and in the afternoon some disturbances that occurred near the centre of Mineo also involved citizens. There have been riots and public order problems. But I would like to point out these facts, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, only to make it clear that we cannot solve such important problems if we merely make citizenship feel like a matter of public order, as problems that cause discomfort in the daily lives of our citizens living in that area of the country. The problem is deeper and, with the episodes that have taken place, there is a real risk of not letting its true essence be felt. We appreciated, in his initial report, the part in which he said that the task of a large country is surely to make the citizens feel protected, protected and safe compared to episodes that generate concern. On the other hand, however, there is Community policy. In the various passages, on the many occasions in this beginning of the parliamentary term of speaking about Europe, dialogue has often been fruitful, but it must continue to progress further. We want you to make it clear at the next European Council that the perspective of Italy and Europe is a Mediterranean perspective, that Italy can be the South of Europe and certainly the North of Africa and that Europe must make its presence felt from the point of view of participation and accession. The Senate has already identified two key themes: internal democracy and the Mediterranean as part of a cognitive survey promoted by the Commission for Foreign Affairs and the European Union's Political Commission. We would like to be protagonists of European history in the Mediterranean but, to do this, we cannot rely on the old tools of foreign policy at our disposal. We must involve the peoples and especially the new generations, Mr Letta. In the next six months of the Italian Presidency, we would like to see a debate on cohesion between young people in the Mediterranean area. We must be able to bring young people from our universities into dialogue with young people from universities on the African continent. We have to grow them together. We will probably propose that you carry out an Erasmus project for the Mediterranean basin area, because we need constant contact; we need to grow together. We really want policies for Europe to be heard by citizens as belonging to them. Today Europe seems far away, it seems to speak a language - said Senator Santangelo - that is not the current one, that of every day. Well, we ourselves must make the first revolution, proposing absolutely new facts. If for the Mediterranean we know for sure that we must start from the new generations, those that Senator Compagna has indicated as protagonists of a failed Arab spring, in this intercourse we read the future of the Euro-Mediterranean policies of Italy. In the other areas that will be the subject of the speeches at the next European Council, we must be able to adopt the same measure. When we talk, for example, about banking union, it is now clear and certain - we feel it everywhere, in all places - that the banking union is not perceived as an important fact for the Italian citizen. If the banking union is perceived by the population as an agreement between banks, between strong people, between those who manage to determine the flows of finance, we will have failed, Mr Letta. We must make it clear in a strong way that the banking union serves to give credibility to a system which must then, thanks to its credibility, give credit to households and businesses. We must be able to dialogue in this dimension and make it clear to the full that Italy is the protagonist of a Europe of the peoples, where the latter are the protagonists of politics and it is not the policies that impose rules that are less and less understandable. The same goes for the Digital Agenda. I have concluded, Madam President. I need another 30 seconds to say that we will be more credible in Europe if we are to be rigorous within us. Over the last decade, Italy has launched a whole series of regulations for digitisation and the modernisation of the public structure. President Letta, I ask you and your Government to be extremely inflexible and to implement, with the right sanctions in the event of wrongdoing, all the regulations we have put in place. Let us settle and we will be even more credible in Europe. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Group Grandi Autonomie e Libertà on motion 3, tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u45	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for this comprehensive information. This is the maximum distance between Europe and its citizens. The scepticism towards Europe - unfortunately - has never been so high in Italy and, in my opinion, two things must be done in order to counter this trend. Firstly, it is necessary to make more and better known the work, despite all that is valuable, which is being done in Brussels in order to achieve an ever closer Union, as the preamble to the Maastricht Treaty said. It's been 20 years, but it seems like an eternity. Again, the communication has its own responsibility in the excessive trivialisation of the European Agenda and does not deserve it, with all its shortcomings. Secondly, we must help Europe to help us, if we can say so: to present serious, reasonable, feasible proposals and also to show ourselves credible and capable in their implementation, because only in this way can we allow ourselves to insist when there are essential points such as the issue of border control. The credibility - you have emphasized it yourself - is a fundamental value: whether we like it or not, we have to deal with the credibility and the crisis that the country has in this field. On the agenda of the European Council meeting at the end of this week there are three main points: the digital economy, innovation and services; growth, competitiveness and employment; economic and monetary union. In addition, there is the Italian proposal on Lampedusa and Frontex, which is very reasonable and on which I have nothing to add to what has already been said in general. Above all I make my own the words of Senator Manconi, whom I just wish good luck in this negotiation, which will certainly not be easy. With regard to economic and monetary union, the work towards the banking union is progressing fairly rapidly, while, unfortunately, for the other two legs of the euro area policy decided at the December 2012 European Council (in addition to the somewhat evanescent democratic legitimacy) are much slower and the documents available so far are still quite smoky. This applies both to fiscal policy (which, after the approval of the fiscal compact, seems rather blocked, while it would be necessary to work for greater integration of national disciplines on the point) and for the coordination of economic policy. Once again, after an important first step (I refer to the so-called annual procedure for macroeconomic imbalances and, therefore, the sharing with Europe of the Stability Act), it is much more difficult to take the other steps, especially those aimed at competitiveness and growth. With regard to the issue of the digital economy, innovation and services, I stress, among the many aspects already addressed, only the very important work towards the European research area to be carried out by 2014, therefore with a fundamental contribution of the Italian Presidency. This is perhaps the last train for the competitiveness of our university and research system and it is a train that we absolutely cannot afford to miss. On this we need a precise strategy and not just to run after the ball (so to speak): we must not leave the disciplines behind, as sometimes we do following the fashions, but the undisciplined. In other words, we must not only follow the sectors that are driving at the moment and in the short term (I am thinking, in particular, of technologies), but also promote all the sectors of our excellence, instead penalising those who do not do research seriously and well. Encouraging meritocracy, you know that, is worth many points of GDP. Finally, with regard to growth, competitiveness and employment, I leave out everything else and I confine myself to just one aspect. Even the European Union is very well aware of the problem of regulatory simplification. There is an agenda, called Smart regulation, which provides simplification as a central measure for competitiveness and also indicates the tools with which to do it. These instruments are already known in some cases to our legal system, although unfortunately they are not always applied: I am thinking of codification, sunset clauses, what we would call cutting laws in Italy, the consolidation of texts (which in Europe is called reappearing), and others. But in other cases - and this seems particularly significant to me - new instruments are also envisaged, which we do not yet know and which would be of great use, such as the initiative of the Commission's Simplification rolling programme, in which citizens, businesses, non-governmental organisations, universities and others are invited to send input and proposals for simplification. We could also learn from it and perhaps try to use some of these tools to improve and simplify our legislation. Accelerating on these points in Italy could also make our system more competitive, because it is more simplified, and putting us in a position not only to help Europe to help us, as I said at the beginning, but also to need less help from Europe. Therefore, in announcing our Group's vote in favour of the majority's motion for a resolution, I hope that at least some of these ideas can be of use to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the immense work that awaits you, and I therefore wish you every success. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Senator Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u48	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution that we have tabled and will vote against the motion for a resolution by the majority in the government. I will just say one thing in summary. We, like everyone else, are still very impressed by the story of Lampedusa and we are also very impressed by a real farce, that of the funerals that took place yesterday. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it was a funeral at which there were not many of the dead, who are still at the bottom of the sea, unfortunately, and at which there were not even the living, namely the relatives of the dead, who could not go to the funeral because they were locked inside the CIE. Unfortunately, this has been the case. Since we are very impressed by this affair, and since our motion for a resolution will vote for it on its own, we would at least like to be able to say in this Senate that we would like to see a strong reminder from our country at this meeting of the European Council to all Member States for resettlement or relocation with assistance following UNHCR selection procedures for refugee groups from countries of transit or first reception to States offering integration programmes. This, in our view, is fundamental because it serves to offer legal and secure ways of accessing Europe for people who - we must always remember - flee from war, hunger and persecution. We think and hope that at least the European Council will be able to deal with this problem and we hope that Italy will try to urge the other Member States on this point to work together which we believe to be unavoidable. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u49	Madam President, I have to say quite frankly that the negative opinion given to our motion for a resolution (No 1) and to motion for a resolution No 4, at the first signature of Mr Calderoli, has left me very perplexed and has left us unsatisfied, partly because, in our opinion, the motion for a resolution No 1 contains some of the lines that a democratic Europe should follow. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we believe that at the European Council meeting on 24-25 October there are other issues to be addressed in addition to those you have spoken about, for example, the digital economy; e-commerce as an opportunity to exploit new channels to generate income and thus produce employment; efforts for growth and employment; review, for example, the system of reliefs; helping those companies that are suffering but have a future ahead of them; trying to implement those initiatives that do not come under pressure with the very concept of State aid (and I believe that what is considered State aid should be reviewed at European level, because in other countries action is being taken against which the European Union does not give way when it is being promoted by our country). It is necessary to reward research, rewarding real universities, real researchers and perhaps, with a courageous choice, closing certain universities that have been opened only for bell-tower reasons and that perhaps have no reason to exist in the European context, in which there is a territorial competition also in the field of research and innovation. The completion of monetary union is a problem, because we need to assess the current situation of the euro and the content of the European Treaties. We must understand that the Maastricht Treaty was written in another era as regards the economic situation. For a few years everything has changed, so the current euro must be revised and made more democratic. In the same way, you mentioned the role of national parliaments, which are fundamental and very important, and the role of the European Parliament, as the only truly democratic institution, directly elected by the citizens. We therefore need to move on to a sort of Lisbon 2, overcoming a treaty which, although recent, nevertheless reveals many limitations. Then there was talk of the dramatic situation in Lampedusa and immigration policies. Immigration policy is contained in motion for a resolution No 4, first signed by Senator Calderoli, which basically calls for the European Union to follow a fundamental concept: we come to Europe if we have a job and a home, that is, if we have the opportunity to live dignifiedly. Motion for a resolution No 4 basically states that, in addition to what needs to be done with regard to refugees, immigration must be controlled and not dealt with. These are concepts that should be shared by everyone, yet I see that it is difficult and, then, these tragedies happen, which I hope that with Frontex or with Operation Mare nostrum they can be at least limited (which cannot be completely avoided). The commitment must be there. I am pleased that today there is a widespread awareness at European level that our borders are European. For so many years it was said, when there was the past Government, and it was mocked, because the concept did not pass. Today there is a different sensitivity, but they always serve the dead to reach this sensitivity. But I would not want sensitivity and drama to take the background to the need to maintain a strict policy on immigration, controls on illegal immigrants and everything that can result also in terms of security for our country. As I said before, we are in another economic era, there are no more jobs for everyone. I believe that the government must make choices and must give priority first to our fellow citizens, trying to occupy as many people as possible, making choices that have a priority and, therefore, looking directly at the needs of our people, those who have so far pulled the cart in this country and who - alas - are in difficulty. Mr Letta, I hope that the European Council will not be a meeting of hopemakers, as Cato said, where you might laugh. It is not using that kind of strategy, that method of work that, as the philosopher Manin Taccola said, can achieve important results for our country. Our people, in fact, want concrete choices, they want policies to be fruitful, they want our political class to have a pragmatic attitude; they want, in essence, the opposite of what you have proposed by giving an opinion in favour of the majority's motion for a resolution. That is why we will not vote for the majority proposal and will vote for our motions for resolutions, nos. 1 and 4. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u52	Sunta (SPI). Madam President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Citizens' Choice will vote with conviction on the motion for a resolution before us. The line adopted by you in all European and international events, Mr President of the Cosiglio, is highly appreciated and widely shared by all of us. Europe needs more integration, a revision of the Treaties which includes new transfers of sovereignty, without which it risks remaining a great incomplete. From Maastricht to the present, through the Lisbon Strategy, to the new Treaty on the Functioning of the Union, the European Treaty is a history of stop and go which has never failed in relation to the objective of stronger economic and political integration. This European Council is an essential step towards the Italian European Semester, the biggest opportunity Italy has had for a long time to show that it still has the spirit that has accompanied its best seasons, when, from Messina to Rome, the Single Act, in the moments of greatest weakness of our history, Italian and European, we have been able to offer or support concrete solutions that can overcome the mutual vetoes. They rise from many quarters - at every opportunity when the Mare nostrum, cradle of civilization and culture, becomes the place where our inconclusion drowns or when the crisis bites the flesh by now 20% of the population of the world's first economic power - voices that point to Europe's inability to react, to drive, to invest. Few, however, rise to say that with these resources, these rules, these institutional architectures are increasingly difficult to respond to the complexity of global problems. It is not the European institutions that are lacking at the moment, but it is the absurdity of the complexity of European governments in recent years, which does not understand what the answers must be to a Europe that is truly capable of responding to these problems. It is very important that, after the turning point of the June 2012 European Council, when the reasons for growth have finally been placed alongside the reasons for the rigour, it should now be pointed out that concrete measures, meaningful for growth, competitiveness and employment, are needed to recover fundamental steps of the Lisbon Strategy for a Europe that rethinks itself, its development, its ability to cope with the challenge of global competition, building on the knowledge economy, the strengthening of infrastructure networks, both material and non-material, on social inclusion and territorial cohesion. We share the call for greater ambition in pursuing these objectives that come from the European Commission, especially in relation to the digital single market for telecommunications and the need to quickly approve Data Protection and Connective Continent packages. The new programming of the Structural Funds, the research funds and the common agricultural reform will have to be rethought, particularly in the light of growth and employment. Finally, we cannot fail to share the commitment to proceed with the strengthening of economic governance of which the banking union is an essential element, as we have said for a long time, even if it is late. Is all this enough? No. We know that it is not enough and that it takes more, much more. We need a political Europe, the one you have repeatedly outlined, Mr President, in Parliament and beyond. What is hard to find in the intergovernmental approach followed in Europe in recent years. That is why we must invest all that remains of the spirit that has allowed this Government to be born and overcome the obstacles it has encountered on its way to the next European semester under Italian leadership. That is where we will understand, when defining the update of the financial perspective towards 2020, if we want to resume the path towards a more complete federal structure of the Union; that is where we will measure the will to put the Community institutions back at the heart of the European Union's action; that is where we will understand the availability, even at the cost of a Europe at different speeds: of those who want to overcome the current Europe and those who want to remain on the stake, which means backing back. The challenge of free global trade, based on the reciprocity of rules and instruments; the challenge to free the energies of the internal market, removing too many obstacles, according to the indications that Professor Monti gave to the work of the Commission with his contribution a few years ago; the challenge for an active multilateralism in the geopolitical chessboard; the challenge that he first recalled President Casini to put Europe back at the centre of the dialogue with the Atlantic, the whole Atlantic, from North to South, with Africa and the Middle East: these are the challenges we face, as well as the challenge to give citizenship to our young people by making Erasmus mandatory. Of course, it will not be the Italian semester that will be able to overcome all these challenges, but the agenda that the Italian semester will have to put at the center of the new Europe is fundamental to understand if we are still a community of destiny or we are just a community of memory. An ambitious agenda can only be proposed by a country that still has ambitions. The forces that contribute to the formation of the majority of government, beyond the internal and external oppositions that go through, are in support of this Government, and must find a sense of their commitment there, in being loyal and transparent to accompany this phase that will lead us to the European Semester. I believe that this is the commitment that we must make by voting on motion for a resolution No 3, which together is an act of confidence in the new Europe that you said you wanted to build and also a renewed confidence in your Government. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u55	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we take note of how the Government has succeeded in bringing the long-standing issue of immigration into the order of business, and we hope that this has happened because of a sense of political and institutional responsibility, by applying and enforcing the right and not only to support pietas or to submit to another Head of State, the Vatican. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , whose calls, although acceptable in substance, must not dictate government guidelines. However, we look forward to seeing Prime Minister Letta return to Parliament to present the commitments made at this European Council. Turning to the other items on the agenda, the development at European level of a single digital market is one of the priorities of the Digital Agenda for Europe. Nevertheless, Italy has for a long time faced a delay not only economic but also infrastructural and cultural with respect to the main Western economies. This delay is widening more and more every day. We have also suffered a loss of competitiveness compared to our main European partners. The emergence of the digital network economy makes it necessary to face radical changes in development models. Technological developments, in fact, determine economic and social developments. We have been traversed over the centuries by important innovations, those of steam machines and electricity; now it is the digital century. Culture, knowledge and innovative spirit are the flywheels that project into the future. Those who do not update themselves are inevitably destined, willing or unwilling, to be cut off. In the information of President Letta, of the Digital Agenda I have heard little or nothing; I have little heard about digital rights for the blind or the adoption of digital school books, and therefore about digital rights that affect all citizens. They cannot remain on paper alone or in multiannual programmes, as President Letta has defined them. When the rights of citizens, often the last or the least well-off, are at stake, the issue cannot be settled by referring to a multiannual programme. Today with a simple click you should have access without problems to the eHealth Paper, which has also been established for the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation, for the study and scientific research, but also for the health programming, the verification of the quality of the care and the evaluation of the health care. But even here, to be operational, it will need another decree. That is what we are doing in this Parliament: by decree. Not to deepen the issue of telematic infrastructures for broadband means not to face violations of the laws by the institutions, a real scourge of our country that prevents millions of Italians from accessing digital services and to reduce the time and costs. Our country must have a winning digital strategy, a strategy that has so far been lacking. In the past legislature, there was an intervention by Law No 221 of December 2012, whose inspiring principles... (The President-in-Office speaks to a senator.) Excuse me, if you can listen to me... [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I was saying, in the past legislature, there was an intervention by Law No 221 of December 2012, whose inspiring principles were certainly good (anagraph, open date, health issue), but there was a lack of strategic direction, which compromised the results and today we continue to persevere in the error of superficiality. As usual, then, the Italian Government is seriously lagging behind other countries even in the implementation of the Italian Digital Agenda, established by Decree-Law No 179 of 18 October 2012, having not yet been issued the statute of the institution Agency for Digital Italy and having not been issued the implementing decrees of the Digital Agenda itself. This serious delay has been built up for a long time considering the lack of application in many areas of the Digital Administration Code, issued in 2005 by now. The much flagship, but not implemented, digitisation of public administration, electronic payments through digital identities and e-commerce should be among the main levers... (Brussio). I don't know. A little attention, or we'll go out and do something else. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I ask you to lower your voice, otherwise it becomes impossible to continue. BOTTICS (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. I was saying, they should be among the main levers for Italy's economic recovery. But between saying and doing, for most party politicians, there really is the sea. It is for this inertia that even the use of JEP for public administrations has not yet assumed the role of a sovereign instrument in communications between offices. The use of the recommended and faxes reigns undisturbed, due to the lack of adaptation of public buildings to what should be the technological reality of the 21st century, and we see it in our institutions: Parliament (and perhaps the Senate more than the House) pays a high rate of digital illiteracy, while it is essential to give citizens the opportunity to know the activity of the elected institutions. But there are also obstacles of various kinds to the accessibility, transparency, aggregation and analysis of these data, which should be published in standard, free and open formats. If we really want to start and assert a start on electronic democracy, it is essential to start from here, with the extension and updating of the online publication of all acts and all institutional activities, taking all the necessary measures to this end. For example, just to say one, starting the unification of the websites of Chamber and Senate. The cyber literacy of citizenship is one of the strategic priorities of the Digital Agenda for Europe, and in this respect too there are significant delays in our country. It is clear and in the eyes of all the enormous work of the 5 Star Movement to bring Italy to the forefront in Europe on these issues, also in relation to the rate of penetration of broadband and ultra-wide, and it is reasonable to expect that our country will not be able to meet the commitments made at European level without important public investments in the sector. The way in which the sale of Telecom Italia has been carried out has lately, for example, resulted in incalculable damage to the Italian State, which does not today have the ownership of the telephone network, which is of strictly public relevance: this entails serious inconvenience for users and consumers, because the companies that rely on the Telecom network are forced to wait for the latter's technical time for any request for assistance. I therefore declare the 5 Star Movement's vote against the motion for a resolution tabled by the majority, because we can no longer accept that, while we are under the austerity imposed on us by Europe, we do not receive the positive inputs, manifesting continuous delays in the engagements, such as the Digital Agenda, which would support our companies, making them finally competitive and making public administration more efficient and less costly for citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u58	BERNINI (PdL). Madam President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of time alone, I would not like to dwell on the shared elements of the President-in-Office's communication such as the completion of the Digital Agenda for the 2015 Single Market, the evaluation of the progress made (but also not achieved) with respect to the European Research Area 2014 and the future development of the Innovation Union. I will just say that we appreciate the President's call to the importance of this European Council as the turning point or tomb of the Telecommunications Europe, a dry alternative, but useful as an appeal not to waste any more valuable time and the urgency of the decisions to be taken. We also share the President's alarm about the delay in the European Union, whose information communication technologies market has fallen by 2% since 2010 compared to the growth of 6% of the North American one, 14% of the Asian area and even 18% of the Latin American one. On the other hand, I would like to emphasise the need to promote a digital compact that is finally the good relative of the notorious fiscal, that is, a pact between Member States that binds them to achieve together the objectives of the Digital Agenda. This is important, especially in order to increase productivity and cut the costs of public administrations. As we all know, the cut in unproductive public spending, including through good digital contagion, is intended for us to reduce the tax burden on citizens and costs on consumers, which is, must be, our common priority. Similarly, we welcome and support the call for the need to strengthen e-commerce and new online services, especially in the light of the increase in GDP and employment that will result. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, please be quiet, otherwise Senator Bernini may find it difficult to continue. BERNINI (PdL). Madam President, I try, and I move forward with joyous commitment. This aspect, moreover, is in line with that of the infrastructural adjustment against which Italy remains in a position of serious delay. We also share the President's assessments (at this moment in absentia) on the second item on the agenda, employment and competitiveness, with the implementation of the Investment Plan for Europe, youth employment initiatives and regulatory simplification; this last issue has never been sufficiently addressed. However, we ask the government to bring something more to Europe. We call for the voice of our small and medium-sized enterprises to be heard in Brussels; more than the voice, the cry of pain, which becomes unbearable when an entrepreneur is asking for credit - to realize an idea, a productive initiative, an innovation or even just to pay his employees - and we hear: When an entrepreneur asks the public administration for a reason for his claims and hears the answer: "Not yet." The bite of credit crunch grabs our companies. From President Letta and the Government everything we expect to defend the access to credit for the building fabric of our manufacturing economy. The COSME plan, presented a few days ago by our Vice-President of the Tajani Commission, is set to breathe life into small and medium-sized enterprises. But more is needed: we need new resources from the Structural Funds, and others from the European Investment Bank. I would also like to stress that Italy is still in danger of opening an infringement procedure for late payment of public debt, despite the efforts made jointly by Parliament and the Government to resolve the problem. More needs to be done, gentlemen of the government, to target the thirty days of European respect for payment times (against our 600 or 900). We also share Italy's support for the implementation of the agreements on banking union, as well as in principle the prospect of strengthening economic and monetary union vis-a-vis, greater coordination of national policies and, above all, the progressive creation of a common European helm. On this we ask the President-in-Office of the Council to take a different view from that given to Chancellor Merkel in recent days, who is also very shy and awaiting the repercussions on the German Länder of the banking union. The strengthening of economic, monetary and banking union cannot be pursued in the sole interest of a hegemony state, but in the direction of European structural reforms that lead us to a central bank with the requirements of similar institutions, not only price guardian but last resort lending. I come to the more political demand, to an attitude, indeed I would say to a sentiment, which we believe the Government should make on behalf of the Italians: greater independence from the impositions of a German-centric Europe. We Italians have helped to create Europe, we have always been convincedly European, but we want more Europe for everyone, no more Germany, no more France, no more Italy. I would like to mention in this regard, to you, Minister Franceschini, and to the Government everything, the passage of a recent analysis of the Italian decline signed by Professor Orsi of the London School of Economics, an Italian, which reminds us that since the beginning of the crisis 15% of the domestic manufacturing industry has been destroyed, which was the largest in Europe after the German one, and about 32,000 companies have literally disappeared. Unfortunately, we have been parachute-free from the slope of austerity, and this is accelerating our decline. In addition, Italy has the highest levels of overall corporate taxation in the European Union, and one of the highest in the world. This study calls into question that stability is in itself a value if pursued at all costs, and that bureaucrats and technocrats can replace politics. Today much, too much, is sacrificed on the altar of stability, and we would not want the Government to be limited to being the guardian of the Italian decline, like the old guardians of historical residences in abandonment. We call on the President-in-Office of the Council and his Government to bring a new look to Europe, including those who have preceded it, and to assert not only the paper produced by very skilled bureaucrats, but also the flesh and blood of the demands for cuts in bureaucracy and for the rebirth of credit and trust for our entrepreneurs. The shortsightedness of the Maastricht parameters, the dullness of European constraints set too bureaucraticly and what President Letta rightly called 'cages of procedures' cannot harness the need for more courageous and pro-growth policies, and growth must be stable. Finally, but this is a priority, there is the issue that will be discussed in Brussels on the wave of the emergency, which has been discussed extensively during this debate and in the communications of the President of the Council: the journeys of death, the trafficking of human beings across the Mediterranean, asylum. The theme has been imposed by the force of a chronicle that photographs epochal phenomena. Europe is scattered, unprepared and ineffective. But as the first and strongest impact of the migratory pressure from the neighbouring East and sub-Saharan Africa has on Italy, we must impose a real commitment on the rest of the European Union. Let's put in full the no of President Letta to the Europeanization of indifference, an effective paraphrase of Pope Francis's shameless cry. We support the idea that the Sicilian coasts and the island of Lampedusa cannot be considered the Italian outskirts, but the outpost and the first strip of Europe, because they are. We appreciated President Letta's call to put aside rhetoric and focus on facts and resources. We appreciate your commitment not to accept that you discuss immigration in a superficial and general manner. We liked his words after the meeting with Prime Minister Samaras on the strengthening of Frontex, the putting into operation of Eurosur in due time when the Mare nostrum mission, the discussion of the issues of the right of asylum at European level, will cease. We also agree that there must be a strong capacity to influence (i.e. his words) what happens in countries of origin, such as Libya, where migratory flows start. Then he added: "We want to be very clean and firm in the control of the coasts and in the management of the flows..." So far, so good. But I would like, if I may, to warn the Government of a temptation: to accept and re-launch an ideological vision in Europe, although present within its Government and already brought to Europe by one of its Ministers as the orientation of the whole Commission. The abolition of the crime of illegal immigration cannot and must not be a European issue without first clarifying the ideas between us. Instead, we would like the Government to press Europe on with its common responsibilities. President Letta recalled his visit to the reception centre in Lampedusa with President Barroso, Commissioner Malmström and Vice Prime Minister Alfano. Barroso said that the European Council would address the issue of urgency, said that Europe cannot turn on the other side, and said, above all, that a distribution of weight between the various states is necessary. We expect the Government, President Letta, to return to Rome on the 25th bringing concrete results of a commitment by the European Union alongside Italy against the voyages of death. We can no longer collect bodies in the waters of Sicily. We are convinced that the President of the Council and the Government will be able to best represent in Brussels the interest and vision of Italians and Italy. I repeat, therefore, the wish already expressed to the Government and to President Letta on the occasion of a similar appointment: let them make themselves and enforce us. Of course, this wish also applies as an explanation of vote in favour of its documented, articulated and passionate communications. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u61	CHITI (PD). Madam President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists shares the content of the President-in-Office's report and, of course, the motion for a majority resolution. It has been noted - and it is true - that the topics on the agenda of this European Council, although of great importance, are many and are certainly different and heterogeneous: from the digital market to the banking union, from measures that strengthen coordination on development and employment to the issue of immigration, which we have insisted on including. However, I believe that there is a common thread linking all these aspects and that we must politically stress and bring out: the common thread in my opinion is that we have turned our backs on the season of a European Union that lived only of austerity, an austerity without development, and that they are strengthening - at least that is our wish, for them to strengthen even more - bonds of sharing and solidarity between the countries of the European Union on the major issues. Here are some of these points: the completion of the Digital Single Market and the European Research Area is needed over the next two years. The great potential of these sectors in terms of development and employment is shared. We know - and we say this so many times - that the global challenge is being played at the level of innovation and that we must firmly focus on investment in research and technology. However, public spending on innovation and research is falling in many EU Member States, partly because of the constraints imposed on the budget by fiscal consolidation (in 2013 it was 0.7% of European GDP). Even before this, there is another no less serious negative aspect which calls into question the way European integration is understood: different national programmes, based on different criteria, are a backwardness to be overcome. My colleague, Mr Guerrieri Paleotti, has put, in my opinion, with competence and great effectiveness, the theme that we place to the attention of the Government for this European Council: the Italian Government must support the completion of the digital single market and in this sense it is necessary to reach the rapid approval of the legislative package proposed by the European Commission already in the coming months, and not to postpone it to the next legislature. The European Council - and this is the second issue I want to stress - is also called upon to assess the progress of economic and monetary union. In the meantime, I want to say - it is also fair to claim it, it is not a nationalistic sentiment - that in the action to combat financial tensions a particularly important role has been played by the European Central Bank chaired by Draghi: these interventions have helped to eliminate the asymmetries that prevented monetary policy from exerting a correct influence on the economies of countries characterized by economic and financial imbalances. As has been mentioned, and as we must also know when we are discussing the stability law, the financial conditions in the euro area are now less critical than at the end of 2011, but the achievement of a stable balance is still far away; there is still no mechanism for reducing divergences in economic structures; the imbalances of the economic cycle favour some countries to the detriment of others, which is why it is necessary to address them with a common effort. I turn to the two Ministers present to raise a question which is not contained in the motion for a resolution that we have tabled, but which is an important issue. In autumn 2012 President Van Rompuy proposed a federal budget for the euro area (what is called fiscal capacity). This proposal was also adopted by the Commission: it is an indispensable instrument for implementing structural reforms with policies of cohesion and social solidarity. But this decision is suspended. I believe that it should become one of the priorities of the Italian Presidency, and I put this question to the Government of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The banking union is starting to become a reality, and with regard to this aspect I would just point out that in the coming months we must come to the definition of the single mechanism for the resolution of banking crises and the establishment of a harmonised deposit guarantee mechanism, which is essential to guarantee the recovery of credit to companies, without which there would be no lasting development and growth. To this end, too rigid regulatory options that penalise the flow of credit must be avoided in the transitional phase of entry into force of single supervision. The President of the Council recalled two other issues that the Government has on the table: firstly, it is necessary to monitor the implementation of the Growth and Jobs Pact, adopted by the European Council in June 2012, and the decisions taken at the European Council last June to put in place anti-cyclical instruments. At the same time, since we want a rapid departure - we have also discussed this here - of the European Youth Employment Initiative from next January, our Government must be able to present, by the end of the month or at least as soon as possible, that National Plan for the implementation of the Youth Guarantee on which we have committed ourselves. The last point concerns immigration. Mr Manconi has already said that the tragedy of 3 October and the initiative of our Government have put this issue to the attention of the European institutions. We must therefore be able to come out of this with some results. On this subject, it was decided to set up a joint task force to patrol the coasts of countries bordering the Mediterranean and proposed the establishment of humanitarian corridors and the revision of common rules on asylum, also reviewing the criteria for the reception and distribution of refugees. I am glad that the President-in-Office of the Council has accepted it, because it seems to me that Italy must try to insist on the proposal that Senator Manconi has again made here, so that the request for protection can be made by people fleeing disasters, wars and destruction already in the countries of origin or transit and that here an assessment of the European Union, with its representations, can intervene in order to reduce the space for the merchants of death who prepare new tragedies. However, I would not be honest if I did not say this: I have heard different tones, but for the Democratic Party it is a fundamental point that Italy, in order to be credible, must also make changes to its order. Yes, I believe that the crime of illegal immigration should be eliminated. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Giannini]] according to which a person is judged not for what he does, but for what he is. It is an unworthy legal incivility of a country that has been in the world, for many centuries, a lighthouse of law. It is also necessary to give immigrants who live and work regularly in our territory the right to vote in local elections, as well as to revise the rules on citizenship, firm to an old conception, and to open up to forms, even gradual, of application of the ius soli. Finally, the Italian Presidency of the European Union should be an opportunity not only to steer policies towards development, but also to put the issue of the Mediterranean at the heart of the Union's agenda. This is our task, and the Senate is already working on this through the knowledge that the political committees of the European Union and foreign affairs have been authorised to carry out. To conclude: progress has been made in Europe in recent years in terms of economic governance, which is a reality. In recent months, we have had a new, but still insufficient, focus on employment and social equity. The Italian governments, in recent years, have made a contribution - and also the Letta Government has made a strong contribution - to achieving these results: we claim it with conviction in the face of so many demagogies, so many superficiality and pressapochisms. But these two aspects must be together, because the citizens have experienced austerity measures and now they must live with the same concreteness - not only hear them announce - the results of development policies, because it is from here that we pass not limited support, not left to the elites alone, but wide, to the objective of federal Europe and the United States of Europe that we want to achieve. We cannot afford to have a majority in the next European Parliament or, in any case, the Eurosceptics or the enemies of the European Union. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u62	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u65	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the next votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u66	Senator Santangelo, the request must be made for each vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bitonci and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. [[Comments from the PdL Group.]] I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 2 by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senators Zanda, Schifani, Susta, Ferrara Mario, Zeller and other senators to vote by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u69	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I rise to draw the House's attention to what we are voting on. I believe that the Government was wrong in expressing its opposition to motion for a resolution No 4; it should have returned to this House because it was the subject of immigration not contained in the government programme, especially since Deputy Prime Minister Alfano and the Minister responsible for immigration said that no changes would be made. I want to stress that the government's commitment to not take or support initiatives aimed at amending the current immigration law is being voted on. It is time for everyone to come out on this subject - whether or not they want the Bossi-Fini law or later - so that they do not vote in the Commission in one way and the day after they do exactly the opposite. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I therefore call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous vote, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u70	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Calderoli and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u73	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Madam President, considering that the vote on the previous motion for a resolution was quite relevant to the content, I would like to make it clear that my vote was against, rather than in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u74	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, since the opinion of the Budget Committee on the content of the draft Stability Act has not yet been received, the President's communications pursuant to Rule 126 (3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure will be included on the agenda for tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u76	I inform you that the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity has communicated that, in the session of 22 October 2013, it has verified not to be contestable the following elections and, competing in the elected the qualities required by the law, has declared them valid: for the Abruzzo Region: Rosetta Enza Blundo, Gianluca Castaldi, Federica Chiavaroli, Paola Pelino, Stefania Pezzopane, Gaetano Quagliariello and Antonio Razzi; for the Campania Region: Rosaria Capacchione, Franco Cardiello, Pier Ferdinando Casini, Andrea Cioffi, Luigi Compagna, Giuseppe Compagnone, Vincenzo Cuomo, Vincenzo D'Anna, Giuseppe De Cristofaro, Domenico De Siano, Giuseppe Esposito, Ciro Falanga, Vincenzo Fasano, Pietro Langella, Eva Longo, Giovanni Mauro, Antonio Milo, Vilma Moronese, Alessandra Mussolini, Paola Nugnes, Nitto Francesco Palma, Bartolomeo Pepe, Sergio Puglia, Lucio Lago, Maria Bro, Angelica Sibilia, Pasqualo, Riccardo Villari and Sergio Zavoli; Bruno Alicata, Ornella Bertorotta, Amedeo Bianco, Fabrizio Bocchino, Francesco Campanella, Nunzia Catalfo, Antonio D'Alì, Mario Ferrara, Mario Michele Giarrusso, Vincenzo Gibiino, Marcello Gualdani, Giuseppe Lumia, Bruno Mancuso, Giuseppe Francesco Maria Marinello, Corradino Mineo, Pamela Giacoma Giovanna Orrù, Venera Padua, Giuseppe Pagano, Giuseppe Ruvolo, Vincenzo Santangelo, Antonio Fabio Maria Scavone, Renato Schifani, Francesco Scoma, Salvatore Torrisi and Simona Vicari; for the Veneto Region: Maria Elisabetta Alberti Casellati, Raffaela Bellot, Patrizia Bisinella, Massimo Bitonci, Anna Cinzia Bonfrisco, Enrico Cappelletti, Felice Casson, Franco Conte, Mario Dalla Tor, Gianpi, Gianpiero Dalla Zuanna, Paola Gioro, Paola De Pinupina, Paola De Pianupina, Antonio De Pinto Stein, Mauri, Giovanni Stefanci, Giovanni De Poli, Giovanni Stein, Giovanni Stenetti, Giovanni Stenetti. I acknowledge this communication and declare these elections validated.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u77	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-129.ana.u78	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 23 October, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.23 p.m.
