ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. PHASE, f.f. [[President. - The next item is the report (Doc. (Applause from the PdL Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I understand the enthusiasm of my colleagues. It is simply the Senate Presidency Council that is undertaking everyone, even myself. However, we felt it was correct to follow up the sitting rather than to ask all colleagues for a postponement of the sitting, because - I repeat - all the members of the Presidency Council - from President Grasso, the Vice-Presidents and the Secretaries are engaged in a delicate meeting at which I have withdrawn to ensure the orderly conduct of our work. Therefore, a senator, as per the Rules of Procedure, replaced the Secretary Senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. I would ask colleagues to withdraw the cards and hurry to vote. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] This is the first vote, it is a practice; you have also complained about the rapid votes: this is an average vote. It's the average that counts at the end of the year, like at school. I'm begging colleagues to take their seats. (Follows the quorum check.) There's some senator coming to the place. The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 16.08 a.m. and resumed at 16.34 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u6	Colleagues, let's resume our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u9	FALANGA (PdL). We call for the quorum to be checked again. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u15	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, on a point of order, pursuant to Rule 92. As is well known, the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group, during today's afternoon sitting, requested, pursuant to Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the so-called urgent procedure related to the document of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity concerning the decadence of Senator Silvio Berlusconi. The President of the Senate, who presided today, stated that the rejection of this proposal by the Assembly yesterday involved the foreclosure of the proposal made pursuant to Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure to discuss and vote on the same subject at the same sitting as yesterday; foreclosure which, in our opinion, is not supported by logic, much less by the rules of the Rules of Procedure governing the planning of the proceedings. The urgent procedure referred to clearly refers to matters which are not included on the agenda, pursuant to Rule 56, paragraph 4, of the Senate Rules of Procedure, regardless of the proposals made and voted on previously. Yesterday, in fact, I would remind you, the same procedure that had been put forward at the Conference of Leaders had been overcome by the fact that there was no unanimity in the adoption of the timetable which was then voted in this House. Yesterday's vote on the agenda of the plenary session is based, vice versa, on another separate article of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate (Rule 55, paragraph 3). We therefore ask you, President, to re-assess your determination, not in accordance with the spirit or the provisions of the Senate Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u16	President Grasso has already spoken on this issue this morning, to which I shall report his request to see if there are any assessments other than those already made this morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u19	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, forgive me, but I am always speaking on this point, also to make it clear. Paragraph 4 of Rule 56 of the Senate Rules states specifically: To discuss or vote on matters that are not on the agenda, a resolution of the Senate adopted by a two-thirds majority of those present, on a proposal from the Government or the competent President of the Commission or eight senators is required... We refer to this. We are asking you, who is chairing this House at the moment, to take note of this request and we are asking eight senators to support it. This is a procedure that you cannot fail to allow.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u20	Compared to the President of the Senate, who has already spoken personally, you have raised a question. It will now be reported to him and we will consider whether there are different views on this procedure that you are calling for. Since a meeting of the Senate Presidency is taking place, I think it is correct to report to the President, given the importance of the matter. I am not saying that the matter is rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u21	Mr President, you cannot follow up on the work. I am addressing you, who is chairing the House at the moment, and I am not referring to any other President who is absent. I am asking you, pursuant to Rule 56 (4) of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, to check the support of eight senators to discuss this issue. Otherwise, we suspend the work. I understand your embarrassment, but it was not our intention to embarrass the President. We suspend the sitting and possibly wait for President Grasso, if you consider it appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u22	Senator Santangelo, President Grasso, this morning, with an assessment that I share at this time, in my responsibility as President of this House, said that the vote has already, at another sitting, approved the timetable, which is a final timetable. So I share the assessment that the President of the Senate made this morning and I can only confirm what has been said. The timetable, according to the assessments of the article that you referred to, has already been voted on and is a final timetable for the House. At this point we move on to the agenda of today's afternoon sitting, which contains the bill of conversion of the Decree-Law on Education.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u25	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I apologise once again, but I am making a request with precise terms, which you cannot answer in your personal and subjective opinion. There is a Senate regulation that needs to be applied. I ask you kindly, if you have the reference, according to which article and paragraph of the current Senate Rules you are preventing me from carrying out this request. If it is not possible, stop the sitting for five minutes, or for as long as you think it appropriate, and give me a specific answer, because that is not the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u26	I have already answered you; then I will answer you further.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u29	CASINI (SCPI). Mr President, I would like to say to my fellow senators that the logic that cannot be repeated at the beginning of each sitting is based on the fact that the request has already been rejected by the House and that the timetable has been confirmed. It would be as if a law, which has already been rejected once, was repeatedly put before the House: it is precluded by the fact that it has already been rejected. I would like to say to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, who are very interested in what happens in the country, that here we have a measure on the school that is very important for the future of our country and I believe that no political controversy can be justified if it has the direct consequence of removing from the Chamber the examination of a measure that is fundamental for the future of our children. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, PdL and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u30	I thank President Casini. As far as the matter is concerned, it is not a context that can be proposed again, so much so that it has been, but I repeat that the so-called urgent procedure, referred to in the aforementioned regulation, cannot be invoked in the present case. The request, in fact, far from foreshadowing the inclusion on the agenda of the Assembly of a new subject in accordance with the spirit of the norm, is rather a change to the timetable approved yesterday. This proposal for an amendment affects a specific point in the timetable itself, on which two separate votes were held yesterday by the Assembly, which confirmed and finalized the decision of the Conference of Leaders. This is the assessment of the Presidency, which has already been made to the House and which I personally confirm.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u31	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1150, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Giannini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u32	Mr President, kind Minister, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said and I agree that the subject of this measure is really one of the founding elements of a parliamentary term because it contains urgent measures in the fields of education, especially universities and research, in a heterogeneous structure consisting of 27 articles. Here, the valorization of knowledge and human capital is or should be the main strategic and perspective tool among the policies promoted in an advanced country, even in very greedy and complex times like those we are going through, more dominated by short-sighted logic, and sometimes austere, of the financial emergency that is not inspired by the ambition and courage to plan the future to recover growth and transform it into development. Italy has not remained free from this tyranny of the short term and whoever has professionally dealt with school or university has suffered over the years, even on his own skin, poorly coordinated public policies, fragmentary and not systemic and, what matters most, especially today, often aimed at reducing costs to the detriment of quality of course. The data speak very clearly and I do not repeat them because they are known to all. There has been a reduction in spending by the Ministry for Research, University and School in the three-year period 2009-2011 over €10 billion. In comparison with recent history, I say at once that this measure represents a reversal of trend, in the forms and with the limits that I will try to illustrate, and it expresses an assumption of political responsibility on the part of this Government which deserves approval and support from Parliament. I cannot, however, hide, ladies and gentlemen, even by interpreting, I believe, your feeling, a feeling of frustration for not being able to analyse and deepen the text even in the Senate, as happened in the House of Deputies, to improve it, discuss it and possibly amend it in all the critical points we have found, beyond the various political positions of majority and opposition. Therefore, I should like to point out immediately two weaknesses of this decree, concerning the application procedures and the financial coverage respectively. As regards the form in this measure, as in other contexts, there is a broad, I would say excessive, reference to the rules contained in secondary acts, which will therefore, for the most part, be implementing regulations, on which the actual effectiveness of the measure and the political choices underlying it will depend. This, as the Minister is well aware, risks slowing down the implementation times, in spite of the urgency of the measure under consideration, which is also well denounced by the title, and above all makes an uncertain regulatory horizon for a world that needs certainties: that of school and university. On this point, therefore, we recommend above all to you, Mr Minister, that you, together with Parliament, pay close attention, as will certainly be done by the industry. The financial coverage of the measure (about 450 million, with other resources starting from the years after 2015), was discussed a lot in the Commission in the House, while for the reasons I have already mentioned it was not possible to do so in an incisive manner in the Senate. The feeling, at least my own, is that we have not managed to achieve a true synthesis between the needs of stability and certainty of resources, legitimately posed by the Government, and the motivated intention not to once again discharge the costs of these measures - some of which are certainly not procrastinable, others are meritoriously innovative - on taxpayers, in particular on businesses and consumers of goods subject to the increase in excise duties. I am referring above all - I quote these goods, because they are always the same - to beer, intermediate alcohol products and ethyl alcohol as such. In short, to put it simply, I would like to imagine a sober and educated Italy, which indulges with taste and moderation the great Italian tradition of good drinking for culture and lifestyle and not to support education and culture, as we have happened to see in recent times. I therefore hope that, from this point of view too, it will be possible to achieve a more balanced and shared result in the coming weeks. In order to speed up the work of this House, given the very tight timetable - I would remind you that this decree expires on 11 November, so we have an absolute need to conclude the work in these two days - I shall confine myself, Mr President, to the presentation of a summary of the main contents of the measure, referring for details to the report published at the end of the report, which I have already explained in detail in the Commission. I have spoken of strong points and weak points of the measure. I start from the first, remembering that a first group of articles introduce innovative measures in the context of the so-called student welfare, which is a novelty - at least in the systemic treatment - in the world of Italian education. I am referring to mobility, to the transport of pupils and, at the same time, to the development of new sectors that have long been waiting for attention and resources: I am talking about the area of higher education in music, art and Korea. I will give some concrete examples. Article 1 provides for an increase in support for primary and secondary school students, with specific interventions for commuters and children entitled to support as disabled, under Law No 104 of 1992, with a chapter allocating EUR 15 million; these are therefore fairly significant resources. Article 3, on the other hand, provides additional resources for music institutions, devoting EUR 3 million to merit awards for students who show talent in this field. I have already said on other occasions that this is an important step, which gives back to the musical culture and young Italian talents the right recognition in a crucial sector for Italian culture in our country and in the world, after years of carelessness and neglect. Analoga attention has seemed to me to recognize in the strengthening of the formative offer to article 5 of the decree, that it previews a more effective connection with the management and the fruition of the tangible patrimony - monumental, historical and artistic - and of the formation. With 3 million specific funding, schools will be able to establish and update, through competition, technical and scientific laboratories and updating that use innovative materials to start educational projects in collaboration with museums and archaeological sites. This is also an issue that we have referred to several times and which this measure takes into account. Other measures, on the other hand, are designed as the start of the solution to open problems, problems or issues that have penalized us for a long time (they still do so heavily) in European and international comparison. I am thinking, among other things, of the issue of school dispersal, which is addressed in Article 7, in which it is planned to make, with appropriate measures, the school a genuine place of social cohesion (so, also in line with the European directives and the new programme of social inclusion 2014-2020) and an area open to student orientation, the right to study, measures to support families, as provided for in Article 6. For all these chapters, funding is allowed which - let's say - is microfinance, specifically, but which then in the summary of the decree-law constitute an asset - hopefully, we hope, if well employed - effective and innovative. The strong point of the type of interventions that I have tried to classify and describe as the most positive ones of the decree-law in question is - in my opinion - Article 10, which concerns recovery or construction interventions that can improve, strengthen school construction and, thanks to the amendment approved by the Chamber of Deputies, also the university one. After years - let us also say this - of financial famine and political neglect and deafness in relation to this subject for school, and in part also for university, it seems to me that this article offers a good prospect, with measures affecting the tax system of dispensing for extraordinary interventions, both of restructuring and of securing and of anti-seismic adaptation, as well as of building new buildings through the request of loans to the European Investment Bank, the Development Bank of the Council of Europe and the Deposit and Loan Fund. In other places the decree-law in question aims to resolve or, better, to help one of the protagonists of the world of education, very often neglected by the legislative side: the world of families. I am thinking of Article 7 and Article 6, which provides for appropriations and measures to support families in need and, in general, families for the purchase of textbooks. The staff sector of the school is another protagonist - in this case, in my opinion, not as balanced as in other chapters, especially in financial terms - of the decree-law under consideration. Article 17 of the measure deals with the subject of school staff and teaching staff, a very debated topic and still a source of great dissatisfaction in the world of school. Article 17 also regulates the recruitment procedures for school managers currently regulated in a rather unsatisfactory way with courses and selective competitions banned each year on the basis of the vacancies communicated. Perhaps it is regrettable to see that almost a quarter of the EUR 450 million is earmarked for the stabilisation of staff. This was also indicated in the debate in the Commission as a point which could have found a legitimate but more balanced space in the economy of the available resources. Then there are other articles I want to quote. Some seem to me innovative, also important, such as Article 14, which provides for the establishment of higher technical institutes, which are a novelty in the world of Italian education and education and which, if well used, represent those models that other countries have used for decades in some cases (I think of Germany) to find a specific and effective link between the world of training and the world of work. The higher technical institutes, therefore, through this article, can be freely established especially in those regions where they feel the need and where there is a certain lack denounced. In other cases, Minister and members of the Government, it seemed to me and other colleagues that the solutions to problems and mistakes that have been made were not incisive. For example, Article 20 on the bonus of maturity and on the reinstatement, the result of an amendment of the VII Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, does not seem to be an effective solution for the issue of access with numerus clausus to some particular faculties in our country, such as those of the health sector, medicine and architecture. I believe that in this case, if we had that time that would have been the duty of the High Chamber of a perfect bicameral system such as the Italian system today, we could have discussed, deepened and perhaps suggested, here as in other points that I leave out for synthesis, better and more appropriate solutions. The opinion that I am expressing in the presentation of Decree-Law No 104 on urgent measures in the field of education, university and research is a positive opinion, which highlights in particular the aspects related to a reversal of the trend both in financial sense, method and approach. However, as I said at the outset, I would like to stress, also bearing in mind the outcome of a fruitful debate in the 7th Commission, some aspects and above all this syncope which we have had to live in welcoming it and bring it into the Chamber in 24 hours so that it does not lapse. This has forced us to read less in depth than the subject, the subject matter and also the measures taken would deserve. For this reason, Mr President, I would also like to announce, for the sake of transparency and fairness to the many Members who have tabled many amendments, sometimes valuable, that the line I will take - not by entering into substantive assessments, but by the method I have described and for the needs of speed - is to express a negative opinion on all the amendments, leaving instead on the agendas, which are also numerous, the space to influence the measure and give the Government recommendations or guidelines for the future. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u33	Senator Giannini, the Presidency authorizes you to submit an addition to your report so that it is annexed to the report of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u34	On behalf of the Assembly, I would like to extend my greetings to two delegations present in the gallery. The first is a delegation, with its President, of the Council disciplinary immunity and parliamentary incompatibility of the elections (the theme which is obviously challenging for all the parliamentary assemblies) of the Hungarian National Assembly, the second is a delegation of the cities of Giarre and Riposto. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u37	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to appeal to Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure, which concerns the request for an opinion by the CNEL. This is such an important measure, as President Casini said earlier, that we have to deal with it in one hour in the Commission and in three hours in this House. Well, I quote from Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure: When draft laws or business are being discussed, which are important for economic, financial and social policy guidelines or in any case for economic and labour matters, each senator may propose that the opinion of the National Economic and Labour Council be requested before the general discussion is closed. Mr President, I am simply doing this in commercials, but I remember that in this measure we are talking about student paths and orientations, we are talking about careers in universities, we are talking about medical specializations, we are talking about school dispersals. On these and all the other subjects of the measure, which is in fact an omnibus decree, which we have to deal with in half a day, I think that a CNEL opinion can qualify for this House. Of course, if the Senate believes that it is no longer qualified to discuss a measure, as President Casini said, of such importance, perhaps we should ask ourselves what the function of this House is then. In addition, Mr President, I think that this request is not only lawful, but should be widely supported so that even a little hypocrisy is deleted in the presentation of the reports, knowing that the content is largely very confusing and that many arguments are touched upon that are difficult to address in the time available to us. I say this not so much for a criticism of the Government, which, in my opinion, has also managed to present an omnibus measure this time, but because the need for a thorough discussion must first touch us in the consciences of legislators and then in the conscience of citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u38	Senator Volpi, it seems to me that the decree expires on 11 November, so you should also indicate the deadline within which you would like to obtain the opinion of CNEL. VOLPI (LN-Aut). It's obvious to me. I am responsible for the measures. I think that for 7 p.m. this evening the opinion of the CNEL could be annexed, so that we can continue the debate... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you very much for your accuracy. VOLPI (LN-Aut). ...being incidental, but with the same functions... PRESIDENT. You have already answered my request. At this point I would like to inform the House and the Groups that the provisions relating to the suspensive issue are being observed for the discussion of this proposal and that a vote will then be taken. Members who imagined that there was only a general discussion going on would perhaps be interested in taking part.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u41	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, if a vote is to be taken, I would ask that the quorum should first take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u42	Wait a minute, because now a representative per group can speak. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Okay. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have presented the proposal and have already expressed your support. If anyone is against this proposal, they have ten minutes to talk. We shall then proceed to the vote. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] It is the Rules of Procedure: as Senator Volpi used it, colleagues can use it. [[Senator Ghedini points out that she wants to intervene.]] It seems to me that Senator Ghedini asks to speak to express her opposition. At the end of his speech, the quorum will be checked and then the vote will be taken, so that the Groups will also be aware. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Please, Senators Ghedini, I call you.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u43	Mr President, we await the reasons put forward by my colleague in the League, we do not believe that this measure, which has already been extensively examined at first reading by our colleagues in the House and which arrives in this Senate near its expiry precisely because of the thorough examination and the work of correction and integration that has been done in the other branch of Parliament, to the evaluation of the body of constitutional importance, because already in the first Chamber it has passed the scrutiny of constitutionality and also the assessments of economic sustainability. On these could be expressed the CNEL and nothing else. In this House the first Commission has already had the opportunity to express its opinion on the constitutionality of the measure. Similarly, I understand that there are ongoing non-obstacle assessments by the Budget Committee. Therefore, we do not believe that there are any elements that can recommend the request for an opinion to CNEL.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u46	EXPOSED Joseph (PdL). Mr President, we believe that, although the decree-law under consideration contains some shortcomings which we hope to fill later, time is time for us to be tyrants. In the 7th Commission there has been a great deal of discussion and a square has been found in relation to this text. I am therefore opposed to the request made by Senator Volpi to the CNEL and therefore the PdL Group will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u49	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I sometimes wonder what the precise objective of our behaviour is, because important problems have been raised in the Commission, some of which have been resolved, while others have been referred to other measures, but understanding is to respond to the concrete problems that exist in the country. Frankly, to invoke the opinion of a body which is certainly authoritative, but which also needs a sedimentation of the reasonings and a very broad assessment of the issues, it seems to me an absolutely instrumental proposal. I say that with respect to my colleagues in the North League. If the objectives are of parliamentary tactics, who has the experience of Parliament and knows exactly what the games can be done if it can be spared; let's leave these things to the neophytes, I say it to Mr Calderoli, with all due respect. It cannot be expected that this request will be put to the vote, knowing that the CNEL is not in a position to make an assessment. [[Comments of Senator Calderoli]] Let us face the matter with our heart: let us see if certain institutions still make sense in our country. We are reforming the Constitution, we are also addressing this problem. Having said that, I am opposed to this delay in the debate, pending opinions which I doubt will actually come.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u50	Since it is 5.10 p.m. and the opinion is requested at 7 p.m., if the request made by Senator Calderoli is approved, the CNEL should also have time to express itself. We proceed to the verification of the quorum, previously requested by Senator Calderoli. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. [[Ironic applause.]] Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1150 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the request to acquire the formal opinion of CNEL, made by Senator Volpi. It's not approved. The CNEL can then resume its normal activity without haste.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u51	Mr President, Minister, there is a question of method which seems to me to be more serious than the request for an opinion at CNEL. I'm waiting for silence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You are an expert, you conquer the Assembly. NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I'm just polite. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask colleagues who are not interested in the debate to leave the Chamber. NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). There is one issue that I would like to make in a preliminary ruling, and that is perhaps equally important in relation to the opinion of the CNEL. If we discuss such an important decree when there are 72 hours to its decadence, it means that one of the two Chambers has retained the provision for an abnormal time. So, we solved the question of perfect bicameralism by introducing, in fact, the system of alternate monocameralism. It has happened other times that the Senate has argued against the House in turn doing so. It happens for the second time in the Senate - which I remember, in very short time - to discuss a significant measure without having the opportunity to make amendments. I shall finally make a proposal to the Minister and the Undersecretary who follow our work and I hope that, for that reason alone, they will be accepted and made. That in which the Carrozza Decree-Law moves is a framework that we can share: it is an innovative framework in some ways that have already been underlined by the rapporteur, and that for reasons of time I do not remember, but it is a framework that, at the same time, the competent Minister reminds us to fit into a sort - and it is not his responsibility - of a lack of piggy bank. In other words, a number of problems and problems to be solved are reported, but at the same time the issue is put in the light of a piggy bank defect to deal with them and bring them to a solution. I will leave out the assessments that stand at the head of the decree, which concern our identity and our consideration far superior to what Italy represents today in terms of knowledge, culture and education. We are children of an extraordinary history, but we are no longer children of an extraordinary present. In some ways, indeed, if we look at the many statistics, at least European, we can say that we are out of the norm that considers many countries in the fields of education, knowledge and culture above a level of normality that we have descended for some time now. There is one point, Article 1, for which I use the minutes I have left, on which I welcome the Minister and I am surprised at the behaviour of the competent Commission in the House. Article 1 has been made - I believe - an extraordinary error when the title of merit has been deleted in the allocation of contributions and benefits, expunging it from the article of the decree. I stress this because, when we talk about merit, many times certain left considers it a theme completely outside and beyond its membership. On the contrary, the question of merit is absolutely attributable to the reformism of the left. I say this because merit is one of those categories through which it is possible to consider scalable the social hierarchy, even if one is part of families that belong to the world and to the category of need. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] Without evaluation of the merit, there are no scalable social hierarchies that Minister Carrozza, Pisa, knows very well to have been emphasized several times also by the university that has seen her for many years rector. I say this because on this point the Senate, if it had the opportunity, could have re-introduced, amended an issue which the House, in the competent Commission, has expounded. The other point concerns - here too the issue of merit - the question of so-called virtuous universities. We can discuss the award of the "virtuoso" title to some Italian universities, but what we cannot do, from this point of view, is to launch an evaluation, in money attributable to these universities, cutting funds that instead had to be recognized. On the other hand, in Article 5, I welcome the theme of teacher training and the use of cultural heritage. In an amendment, I would have suggested linking it better with tourism and those involved in government tourism. The same favorable theme is that of the fight against school dispersal, too high in Italy. While, at the beginning of the 2000s, it was born of the possibility that many boys and girls could enter the labour market immediately, unfortunately, it is no longer the case today: they do not enter the labour market and only move away from the school world. Finally, I would have added an amendment (withdrawal) concerning deserving students working away from home. We now have an extraordinarily large number of Italian families who have children who study far from their cities of residence, families that are no longer in a position to support those children. Many of these children are deserving, that is, they have the courage and the competence to continue studying outside their hometowns, but families are no longer able to support them. I do not know whether the House is in a position to produce an agenda in that direction immediately. We have presented a series of agendas, accepted by the Commission. Three of these, Minister, are related first to the multiclasses and a roof for students to be placed within the multiclasses, second, to the associated professors and, third, to university researchers. These are - I repeat - agendas which the Commission has taken on as its own. Now there is no possibility of submitting amendments to the House (the rapporteur explained this very well). What we can do is ask the Minister - and therefore the Government - that the agendas that the Commission has launched and the agendas that the House will pass be assumed as the responsibility of the Government, not just as an address. I am well aware that the agenda leaves the time it finds; I also know very well that, if it is assumed under the responsibility of the Government, it can have the value of an amendment: the political value of an amendment. I repeat, Mr Secretary: the political value of an amendment. I know you can't change the norm. But if the Minister assumes the responsibility to give an assessment of the agendas that the Commission has launched and to assume them as its own, we are in a position to overcome the time issue, the issue of intermittent monocameralism, and to hand over to the Government a document that is shared and included in the institutional wake of the rule, even if not amended. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Tonini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u53	Mr President, the decree-law on school, education and research arrives in this House for the umpteenth time armoured. I speak out for a deep discomfort in my Group to be essentially relegated to a role of paperweight for this measure, without having the opportunity to affect practically nothing. During the debate in the Commission last night, I was able to see that this discomfort was not only of my Group, but was also shared by many other groups and by the Presidency of the Commission. I would like to raise a general political problem. Why have we come to this situation? The decree-law has wasted so much time in the House essentially because of political problems due to the fact that this Government and the majority that supports it are extremely heterogeneous, so the legislative path of the decree-laws is extremely tortuous, and not because of the 5 Star Movement - mind you - because I remember the House's first rapporteur, Mr Galan, resigned for the rejection of its own amendment. Here we are in the situation where political instability within the majority supporting this Government and the parliamentary groups cause this problem. And it is no small problem, because yesterday, in the Commission, there were some elements on which the Senate feels the extreme and urgent need to intervene, but it cannot do so precisely because of the situation that has arisen in the House of Deputies. I am referring, for example, to the problem of the Single Support Area: the disciplinary areas of support have been unified in the Chamber of Deputies, but during the debate in the Commission in the Senate yesterday it emerged that the way in which this unification was done had to be changed. We all agreed: there was in practice unanimity in the Commission, but we could not intervene except on an agenda, because basically our role has been crushed and reduced to that of a simple paper-printer. This is intolerable! I would like to give this House the following reflection: are the broad agreements really adequate to submit such an important decree-law to Parliament? I leave this reflection to you on the subject. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I now turn to the merits of this decree-law. I would like to focus on a few points, which were essentially those which emerged during yesterday's debate and which were translated into agendas: in particular universities and, above all, public research bodies. Minister, I'm addressing you now. The public research bodies are the large absentees from this decree-law. The rules contained therein are simply limited to provisions on the redefinition of the Governing Council of ANVUR or the way in which the presidents of public research bodies are appointed. However, nothing is done, for example, for the precariousness of public research institutions. I am referring not only to Decree-Law No 104, but also to Decree-Law No 101, August 31, 2013, where there are simply extensions of rankings of competitions in order to renew contracts of precarious people, but nothing is known about what happens about these precarious people once contracts expire, as they will expire. I repeat: there is nothing in this decree-law on public research bodies. We have tabled an agenda which attempts to correct one of the existing problems: I am referring to extending the recruitment with fixed-term contracts not only to the premium funds (on which there would be so much to say), but also to the ordinary operating funds and to the FOE of public research bodies, because research projects are also affected by those funds. So, why not give this a chance? We have tabled an agenda on this. Then there is the question of organic points. Minister, once again I address you: your ministerial decree No 713 has created a mess in the academic community, you are certainly aware of this. We have also tabled an agenda on this issue. There are universities which are classified as virtuous under Legislative Decree No 49 of 29 March 2012, and which, unfortunately, according to its decree, Minister, are reduced the allocation of organic points. This is what is happening: virtuous universities that are not recognized as the right number of organic points. Well, we have tabled an agenda here too to set a ceiling on the increase in organic points, so that all universities classified as virtuous can actually enjoy the allocation of organic points. These are only two aspects on which we would have liked to have spoken with amendments much more stringently than was possible. However, we have not been able to do so on a legislative path that has relegated us - I say this once again - to the role of simple paper-cards. I would like to end my speech by talking about economic cover. This was a great issue which caused several debates in the House of Deputies and which was also a source of friction in your own majority. There has been a complaint that the economic coverage is on excise duty, but no one has said anything much more important: Minister, there are 98 million euros of the economic coverage of this decree-law which affects social shock absorbers. The school can consider it as a social elevator that leads the citizens upwards. Well, what do we do to fund the school? Let's reduce the social shock absorbers. As if they were two lifts: on the one hand, the families that go up; on the other hand, the less well-off families that sink into the abyss, because this means reducing the resources for social shock absorbers: sinking in the abyss many families of many workers of companies in difficulty. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The EUR 98 million is on this. Let us move forward on the subject of economic cover. Here too, no one in Parliament has noticed this (I repeat: no one in Parliament has noticed this), but EUR 8.4 million of this decree-law are covered on the programmes of the missions of the "School Education" and "University Education" missions. They're MIUR programs. It is, therefore, a simple transfer of money; it is not new cover. Of these, as many as EUR 5 million was introduced, on the very basis of the Scholastic Education mission, to finance the exemption of the stamp for administrative processes in order to be allocated the hours on the support. So think, ladies and gentlemen, that even a sacrosanct rule in turn weighs on school funds. This is a mere shift of money on issues that are really very serious: think of families that are not supported - thanks to the fact that the Government does not recognize a judgment of the Constitutional Court - and finance the exemption of the stamp of these, burdening the relative funds on the mission "Educazione scuola" of the MIUR. Where, then, are the new investments, Minister? Where are they? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Not to mention - and I shall conclude - the EUR 14 million of cover on the Fund for investments in scientific and technological research (FIRST). This Fund, Minister, is subject to research projects of national interest (PRIN) and future research calls (FIRB) for young researchers. We are funding the school decree-law by cutting resources to young researchers. Minister, I would like to address you: in your own policy statements, you yourself said that you would make a commitment to refinance the FIRST Fund. But what do we find in this measure, in the face of these programmatic statements? We find cuts for 14 million euros! Badi, Minister, that the PRIN and FIRB calls in 2013 were financed to a total of 100 million euros, having suffered reductions for the same 100 million euros in just three years. So, Minister, you're cutting again... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u54	Please conclude, Senator Bocchino.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u55	BOCCHINO (M5S). I'm finishing, Mr. President. So, Minister, after the previous government has savagely cut off, in the past two years, you are putting an additional 14% on these funds. So, they take the money out of the projects to young researchers to fund the school. I hope, Minister, that after this decree you will commit much more to restarting the field of research which, I repeat, is completely absent in the decree under consideration and in all the measures of your Government which have so far succeeded. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u56	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u57	Mr President, Minister, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, you say 'necessity, virtue' and the wish I will never give up is that the need should be a source of virtue. I therefore hope that the need for this Government of broad understanding may result in some more benefit than we can deliver to the country. This wish becomes even stronger, the more important a measure such as the one we are examining today is apparent. Mr Minister, allow me to say that on this occasion we cannot say that the best is an enemy of good, because the decree-law under consideration deals with intervening through the instrument of decree - for the truth I did not understand why the intervention was deemed urgent and did not rely on a government bill - on a crucial aspect, relevant to our society, to the future of our young people and to the full recovery and not only declared, but - also declined to the principle of meritocracy; but I must be honest - this aspect is not fully highlighted, as it would have been desirable. It will become even more important - I would like to say, Minister - for Parliament to be demanding on this matter, the more the repeated rankings that follow over time - all authoritative, for goodness sake - from that of SVIMEZ to a recent OECD, according to which the average of Italian graduates has skills comparable to those of a high school student in Japan. If we add to this the deep gaps between the various areas of the country, I believe that the obligation, the need to be demanding with ourselves responds to the duty to decline the principles of responsibility in the legislative action that we have contracted towards the country. Mr Minister, you are probably in some ways responsible for choosing the path of the decree, but also a victim of a legislative procedure that has seen Parliament's action humiliated; and this I represent him with the necessary vibrant solicitation also to the President of the House, proposing what the President of the 12th Commission has represented to the President of the 7th Commission and to the President of the House, pointing out that unanimously the Health Commission could not express its intended opinion for an absolute inadequacy of the time, especially when compared to the extent, the depth, the complexity of an issue which the 12th Commission has indisputably seen the expropriation of the right to express its own thoughts on crucial and important points. It is a condition of obvious impotence, which clearly also determines not a little demotivation in the Chamber, if we consider that these almost 200 pages of amendments, the result of the commitment of many Members to make a contribution and correction elements that you, Minister, probably would have liked and still wishes today, will unfortunately be shipwrecked in consideration that the next 11 expire the terms for the conversion of the decree and we would not have time to make the third reading to the House compared to the desirable requests that will be made and that we represent with equal energy. We therefore ask you, Minister, to be an interpreter of the loyal cooperation that we intend to offer to the Government, with a sense of responsibility. Let her be an interpreter of this feeling of ours, of those who want to help the country to rise from this state of prostration, especially when she refers to young people, to their formation, to their future; young people who see Parliament's classrooms flooded with words that have the sharp sound of deception, of that deception that confirms that sometimes, even for reasons of haste, we steal the future from our young people. Then we cry: they went out, the brain drain! We remember when they won the Nobel Prize having gone outside the Mezzogiorno of Italy, my Mezzogiorno, and from our country to find luck and greater attention and greater respect for their skills. In the health committee, we would have liked to have expressed a few thoughts on the issue of electronic cigarettes, for example, a ban which, to a large extent, I feel I share. But today I read the results of the studies that Professor Veronesi presented with the European Institute of Oncology, which shows that it could reduce by 30,000 deaths every year in Italy if each smoker replaced the traditional cigarette with the electronic cigarette without nicotine. These are arguments on which I believe that the logic of prohibition or the logic of taxation cannot and should not prevail, where perhaps even an educational system could allow us to achieve some extra results. In the same way, the various titles of the decree are acceptable, but probably the article deserved to be thought a little more, for example, about the commendable commitment relative to the conscious consumption of food, the food policy in the schools and the styles of life are an extraordinarily important topic, for which I also address an appreciation to the government, but it is not indicated the deadline within which the guidelines must be assumed. For God's sake, it is a marginal aspect, but you understand that it is also necessary to establish a timetable or a timetable. Already when the dates are indicated we have difficulty seeing the effectiveness of a measure that we approve returned to our community, let alone a date by which we should intervene. We would have liked to express to you our concerns about specialization courses and their duration, which cannot be approved within the logic of containment of expenditure: woe if that were the case. This is an argument that must go under the heading "Training offer within health care." From the training offer we deduce the fundamental aspects for the construction of the skills assets of those who will support health. Therefore, it would have been appropriate to think about specialization schools for general medical doctors and their contractualisation. Then there is Article 15 of the Decree, which deals with the unusual abolition of the four areas for support teachers, which we consider too casual an attitude, which seems almost to become punitive for handicapped students. I'm closing with what I might call the icing on the cake. Minister, make a clear statement on the need for revision of Ministerial Decree No 713 of 9 August 2013 establishing the criteria for the recruitment quota of state universities for the year 2013. I called it a crime report, Mr. Minister, but I don't want it: it's news of a crime, because it's basically an attempted murder of the Italian university. We absolutely cannot allow the safeguard rule not to be restored, which must necessarily re-introduce a more correct balance between the various Italian universities, where today, following that decree (and you know it), there are universities with a coefficient that is multiplied by 6.7 (as in my University of Bari), and others where the same is multiplied by 280. This leads to an impoverishment of universities and does not take into account the principles... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u58	I invite you to conclude, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u59	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (PdL). Mr President, I should like to end by reminding you that if we want a united Italy that recognizes itself within the tricolour, these inequalities, while maintaining the principles of responsibility of those who administer universities, cannot become a penalty for students, teachers and precarious people, who remain absolutely unheard of in relation to their needs for training and equal treatment. On this, Minister, I look forward to your reply. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u61	Mr President, in a few minutes I would also like to express my thoughts on the fact that we are here in the Senate Chamber only five days after the deadline for conversion has expired. But I want to do it with words and accents a little different from those that preceded me, because I would like us to be free for once from certain tones of hypocrisy and rhetoric that are always present in these debates. It is true that we all complain about it and that we regret that we do not have time as members of the Senate to intervene on this decree. However, let us tell the truth: this has happened many times apart from the reverse when we sent the measures to the House at the last moment and heard the complaints of opposite sign coming from that House. Then we also know that the long time needed for the House to discuss this measure was the result of a very heated and complex political and merit debate that took place in the majority and in the Commission. I think we all have to take care of these issues. That discussion is also part of ours; we cannot imagine it as something outside of us. I would like to say this very quietly because otherwise we lose much of our debate in a lamentation that does not make much sense. Having said that, I would like to stress, as we have already said in the examination of the so-called cultural value decree, which arrived in this House a few weeks ago and which we too have dealt with inverse parts for a long time, that this decree is characterized essentially by a sign of reversal of trend: after a long time we have measures that come back to invest resources, perhaps not all that we could have expected, but still significant resources around some crucial issues (school building, personnel, training and school dispersal). I think that we must treasure, take note of this and commit ourselves to translating it quickly into measures that have an influence not only on school, but also on the resumption of that dynamic mechanism of our country that is indispensable. In a few days' time we will be discussing the law of stability in this House, and we know that the key issue of that law is to be able to guarantee the 1% objective of development, otherwise many of our discussions will not stand. Well, these measures can make a small contribution to this prospect. We must be able to grasp the link between these investments and the overall development of our country. Other members of the Group of the Party of European Socialists will speak on these complex issues and I do not want to say more, but I would like to stress the positive inspiration of the measure that we are about to adopt with conviction. In conclusion of my brief speech I simply want to underline the important value that has a significant novelty present in the decree on a particular and marginal piece which, however, after a long time, finally sees a correct and positive approach, in my view. It is the question of the solution of the node, even complicated and dramatic, of the future of tied musical institutes (Article 19 of the Decree-Law). It may seem a very lateral topic (it is certainly not as crucial as many others), but in many cities and capitals of our country this theme is relevant and is part of an overall initiative necessary for the revival of culture and musical education in our country. I note positively - we must say this - that the decree of Minister Carrozza and the Government contains three important commitments, which I want to summarize. The first is a provision of resources, which have also been increased by the House (therefore, the debate also had a positive outcome), in order to meet a dramatic and survival situation of these institutions, to date governed by Municipalities and Provinces and, in some cases, by some regional contributions, which risk to collapse due to the difficulties of local finance. This is a first positive commitment. There is a second one which concerns the opening of a technical table committed to defining an overall reorganization programme for the whole sector. And then, above all, there is the idea of the construction of a unitary system in which the conservatives and music institutes, as the law already says, are parts of a unitary system. I think that we must value these results and then commit ourselves to a practical translation as soon as the decree is operational. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u62	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u63	Mr President, senatorial citizens, the citizen Immanuel Kant said: Two are the discoveries that can be considered the most difficult for man: the art of educating and that of governing, and however it is always disputed on these two ideas. Both the Government and education are institutions constituted from the social point of view, as the leader of a people, on the one hand, and the leader of a learner, on the other. Both institutions must bring man and the learner to enjoy the beneficial effects of democracy, freedom and its knowledge. If in the world of school there are, however, excellences and values that give shine to the efforts made by teachers and to the great results that many students can produce, it is also true that this same world is full of weaknesses and structural inefficiencies. It is difficult to say the same thing for the world of politics and our rulers, where the lustre of the efforts made and the great results we face speak for themselves. Democracy is essential to a people's education. The path and the growth of one corresponds to the path and the growth of the other; the regression of one corresponds to the regression of the other. We'd like to change the country, fellow senators. We should save the country. This task, unfortunately, is under the responsibility of your majority, but my feeling is that you are not doing so. Is it possible that nothing can be done? Is it possible we shouldn't do a little more? We are in the hands of a paradoxical government, where few decide, do and undo in prey to a paradoxical oscillation between two opposing ideologies, but without results. It's time to say enough, starting with school. If it is true that the civilization of a country is measured by the state of its own prisons and therefore we can tell ourselves very concerned about our level of civilization, we think that the level of democracy of a people is measured by the state of its own schools. That is why we are very concerned, on the contrary, we fear that democracy has had a setback for a long time. And because democracy is a public thing, that is why we consider public school fundamental and fundamental for democracy itself. The realization of a democratic ethics can go through the support of the single and exclusive public school, as is clearly expressed in Article 33 of our Constitution: "Enti and private have the right to set up schools and educational institutions, without charge to the State." The school (and here I want to remember Calamandrei's vision) is a constitutional organ; it is a vital organ of democracy as we conceive it. First of all, public school. Before you exalt private school, you have to talk about public school. The public school is the prius, the private school is the posterius. In order to have a good private school it is necessary that the state school is excellent. When public school is so strong and safe, then, but only then, private school is not dangerous. We don't have a strong and safe school anymore. The manifest inability of the State to manage public affairs and public schools has given way to private realities, everywhere, perhaps more efficient in certain aspects, but still linked to interests that cross different plans from those of the pure and simple common good. We have arrived at the institutional patronage of the peer school, as if there was a need to confirm the existence of a possible odditarian school. But what is peer school? Is it a private public school or is it a public private school? What institutional mess did we get ourselves into? Is it possible that the state is not capable of being a state? Is it possible that our Constitution is constantly being mistreated? We are gathered here in defense, at the service of the school. What school? Let's forget about the buildings for a moment. OECD data on the Italian school are uncomfortable: over one adult Italian in four does not possess the basic literacy and digital skills and almost one in three has very few mathematical knowledge. Not to mention the women's people, who are underemployed on a professional level. The competences relating to reading and writing and those relating to the interpretation of data and graphs are uncomfortable. These are the results: almost a third of the population reading a book, or any other written text, can only interpret simple information. I remember the dismaying words of the Minister of Labour about OECD research: "From the research we come out with broken bones". And yes, dear Minister, with broken bones, but perhaps even more with the brain in the throttle. One of the most worrying situations remains that of NEETs, i.e. young people aged between 16 and 29 who do not study and do not work. Against all pessimism, the path of education is always possible, even when young people seem so far away, so unpredictable, so violent in their reactions. You don't have to lose heart. Young people find themselves well where they feel loved, among people who can love, among people who look forward with enthusiasm, without ever extinguishing their hope but, above all, their dreams and their passions. Saving young people means saving the world, saving ourselves, adults, often in crisis because we don't know where to orient ourselves and where to direct them. It is important to offer them prospects of work, not precarious employment, as it is important to communicate to them a culture of life, solidarity, beauty and attention to people. The school, again quoting Calamandrei, is the central organ of democracy, because it serves to solve the central problem of democracy: the formation of the ruling class, which must not be a hereditary caste, closed, an oligarchy, a church, a clergy, an order. In our thinking of democracy, the ruling class must be open and always renewed by the influx upwards of the best elements of all classes, of all categories, of all citizens. The school, which has this very character in a high political sense, because only it can help to choose, it alone can help to create people worthy of being chosen, who emerge from all social classes. It is a real lack of us adults not to value or to exploit poorly the heritage that every young person carries within himself. It is important to see or, at times, believe a pearl of goodness that shines in the bottom of their heart, discover a fragment of intelligence, a seed of good will, that favors the dream of a goal to be reached, reachable, even considering the last and most in need of us. Article 34 of our Constitution says: "The school is open to all. (...) Skillful and deserving, even if they lack the means, are entitled to reach the highest degrees of the studies. What about the closed number? Isn't that the principle contained in our Constitution? We are in the hands of a government that imposes everything on this Parliament with autocracy... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u64	Finish, Senator Bignami. I'll give you a few more seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u65	BIGNAMI (M5S). What is our margin for manoeuvre? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Or it's indifferent. What are our real possibilities to contribute to change? Nothing. So, we can all just go home! Let's leave this little oligarchy disguised as democracy. We will return when democracy rewards merit, as in the school also in politics, with just electoral laws and not with pig oligarchies. But now with this decree we can say that we have begun something. With this decree perhaps we are taking the right direction, even if preferring the will of a teacher to the right of a disabled boy is out of any democratic perspective. I'm afraid it's just useless to go along with the will of who knows what associative power. Now, in the hope that something will change, all I have to do is raise my eyes to the sky while our boys are denied the horizon. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. I've given you more time... BIGNAMI (M5S). There is one good thing in this decree: that every time I drink a beer I will fund my beloved school in Italian! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u66	Don't drink too much!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u69	Mussolini (PdL). Mr President, I rise to report on what has happened today in the Presidency Council, but above all to focus attention on the serious interpretative vulnus that has been made in relation to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. During the meeting, I asked very specific questions, on the basis of Rule 8 and the last paragraph of Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure, to the President of the Senato Grasso, and there was no reply in the Rules of Procedure, but there was an extremely discretionary answer, which is very serious when we have to deal with sensitive issues such as those on the agenda, namely those relating to the use of computer networks at the meeting of the Assembly of Elections and Immunities on 4 October 2013. That is why, at the meeting of the Presidency Council, we put very specific questions on the basis of the competence of that body, and we wanted precise and precise answers. It cannot be thought that there is a vulnus to the Rules of Procedure or that there is a regulatory vacuum within it, there are issues that must be discussed even in the short term because they are prejudiced over the work of other bodies, other decision-making processes that the Senate will have to face. I speak on the subject because the task of the Presidency Council, under Rule 12, is to enforce the Rules of Procedure, but if the Rules of Procedure are then interpreted in a personal way, depending on the consequences of one party to the other, or on the advantages that one party may have over the other, then here I even go so far as to say that I believe that the third-party of the President of the Senate also fails, because the Rules of Procedure cannot be interpreted according to convenience. I therefore denounce the fact that, to precise questions that have been asked by our political side, there have been no consistent answers, but there have been vague answers. I shall then go back to saying that we need to establish precisely the competence of the Presidency Council on important issues, for example on violations of the Rules of Procedure that were carried out at the famous meeting of the Council on 4 October 2013. I therefore believe that this matter is extremely important and we will ask President Grasso to reconvene the Presidency Council because (I say this here explicitly and publicly, as we said to the Presidency Council itself), we have suspended the sitting because we deliberately did not have the quorum and therefore the subject has not been concluded, there are so many answers that we still have to have from President Grasso. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u72	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President, I would like to begin by pointing out that for the second time, in a matter of very few weeks, a further decree comes to the attention of this House, at second reading, just a few days after its expiry. It is a fact which I have already pointed out days ago and which I consider to be unacceptable to us, because the Senate cannot be deprived of the possibility of examining a measure, amending it and discussing it with due consideration, regardful of measures which, among other things, come into force immediately under the logic of urgency. I had already called to the attention of President Grasso this fact. And I am sorry that he is not here to preside over the work, but he has certainly been held back by more important institutional commitments than those of the Presidency of this House. I believe it is up to the Presidency of one branch of Parliament to work for agreements with the President of the other branch to ensure that the Chambers have equal dignity, not only in their competence, but also in the time they are given to exercise that competence. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Volpi]] Mr President, I must tell you that my Group has major problems of conscience, but also political problems, in approving this measure, which it does not agree with in many parts of it. The fact that he is prevented, on a matter of political responsibility for coalitions, from intervening with amendments, is unacceptable and cannot be repeated. So I am going to go ahead from now on, and neither the Government nor the parties of the coalition want me to do so, that if this happens again, my Group will serenely feel free to evaluate and vote on the measure, without this being an outrage to the coalition pact. On the other hand, it is only a question of claiming the possibility of a serene evaluation and in the time required for it to exercise its right in a parliamentary democracy. So we are very uncomfortable with the impossibility of amending this measure. I come to another point which I would like to draw to the attention of President Grasso. Senator Mussolini was very clear in her exposition. We formally request that the Presidency Council should, however, state its position on the matter for which it had been summoned by President Grasso at a distance of twenty-four. I would like to make a very small historical summary of this event. At our Conference of Leaders, she, as a member of the Conference itself, reiterated that the Presidency Council at its previous meeting had not been able to address the issue of possible disciplinary sanctions and anything else to be imposed on parliamentarians who had violated the secrecy of the Council Chamber of the Junta (the arguments that had been referred by the Presidency itself to the Presidency Council). Well, the Presidency Council had been immediately reconquered for today on the basis of objections which the speaker had made to the President regarding the competence of the Presidency Council on the possibility of declaring the work of the Junta inadmissible for a possible breach of secrecy within its council chamber. DI GIORGI (PD). But what does this have to do with the order of business? Mr Schifani (PdL). That is what I said and that was objected to. So President Grasso had called the Presidency Council at a distance to take up this very issue. I take note of the fact that work has not been completed because there has been a lack of quorum and therefore the Council of President has not been given the opportunity to comment on this matter. If President Grasso considers that this work has been completed, I would point out that we will immediately make a request for a new meeting of the Presidency Council, because we are asking that, in any case, we should know what is the internal body of the Senate to assess the admissibility or inadmissibility of the work of the Council. If this were not the case, if we did not have the knowledge of a body in charge of this function, we would have an impact on the principle of the unappellability and indisputability of assessments made by a body such as the election committee. I think that would be an impossible fact to accept. I also believe that any body within the Senate has the right-duty to be controlled by a superior body, especially when deciding on the rights of persons. Therefore, if President Grasso intends to proceed with the work of the Presidency Council, which we do not consider concluded, well. Otherwise we will take note of this reply and we will immediately ask for a further convocation of the Presidency Council because we do not want to go back a millimetre on this matter. Let us ask for clarity. We ask for the possibility of knowing how the principle of reversibility of proceedings within the Senate works. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u73	Anyone who presides at this time, having taken part in the debate, can only record what is said so that the President-in-Office of the Council, by virtue of the powers which the Rules of Procedure specifically entrust to the President of the Senate, will also be aware of this. It would therefore not be right for me to add comments or assessments which I have made in the relevant seats of the House and the Council of Presidency in other ways. At this moment, having to preside over the work, I simply give the floor to those who ask for it on such a delicate subject. So, listening and registering, I do not make comments, having already expressed my opinion in other locations.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u76	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, President Schifani and Senator Mussolini raised two issues. President Schifani has expressed a fair complaint for the short time available to the Senate for the examination of Decree-Law No 104 of 2013 on the school. He is right, but I must say that in the last legislatures this has happened several times, indeed several times, in some cases because the House of Deputies has held back the measures for a longer time than it should have been, in as many cases because the Senate of the Republic has held them longer than it should have been, and it would be useful every time also to remember the reasons why these delays have occurred. For example, in the case of the measure we are talking about, the main reason for the delay with which the House sent it to the Senate was that the rapporteur has changed, because there have been problems in the rapporteur's party, and I regret to have to remind President Schifani that that party is his, nothing else. Therefore, the measure comes late to the Senate for an internal party matter; a matter which we have respected, which we have not raised, and which I would never have allowed myself to raise in this House if the problem had not been raised. Another question, on the other hand, is what has been raised in relation to the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. I, who have much respect, as well as for Senator Mussolini, for Senator Schifani, know his experience as a Leader and as President of the Senate and I know that he is therefore well aware of the Regulations and the functioning of this body, I cannot believe that he does not know that the Senate Presidency Council has nothing to do with the work of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. It's got nothing to do with it. I have to say that I wonder why he took care of it, and I do not understand why he should take care of it again. I am not a jurist, but as far as I can say according to the Senate regulations, I think that the Councils have their powers, as the House and the Commission have them. The Councils instruct, examine, decide, and it does not seem to me that any subsequent remedy is provided for in our Regulations. I do not think that means that there is no guarantee. It seems to me that the composition of this House and the way in which we work is more than sufficient assurance. I believe that our Senate is democratically composed and organized, and this guarantee must be enough for us. I add only one notation to this, because an engraving by Senator Mussolini struck me. I believe that we have a duty, not to President Grasso, but to us: we must be very careful when we question the third-party of the President of the Senate. We must be very careful for two reasons: firstly, because President Grasso does not deserve to be questioned about the third-party nature of his action; secondly, and this is an even more important reason, because guarding his third-party is useful to all of us; it is useful to the House, to each of us, to each of us, to each of the political groups. We must protect the third party of the President of the Senate, we must not question it for our own interests, because it suits us at a certain time, because in the controversy it can be useful. If we do this, we harm the President, and he does not deserve it; we harm the Senate, but we also harm our personal, political and democratic interests. I really call on this House to be very cautious when it evokes the work of the President of the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u77	The issue of decrees is not a new issue, which has, unfortunately, also been raised in other legislation, at times. However, already some colleagues, in the course of the debate - perhaps not all the senators in the Chamber - complained about the de facto monocameralism, which sometimes to alternate roles, for the benefit of the House or the Senate, was determined in the examination of the decrees. This is, therefore, a question which has its foundation, but which has already been raised in other cases. It is clear, however, that it is very serious.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u80	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, with regard to the issue of decree-laws, which is mainly about the prerogatives of the President in the connection with the President of the House and the Conference of Leaders - which I am not a member of, and I therefore do not want to interfere with - I would just like to point out that, perhaps, compared to the previous legislature, there is a slight improvement. The Commissions and the House, in fact, are debating, while generally in the previous legislature there was the system according to which a House was debating, then confidence was placed on the text of the Commission of the first reading branch and the decree-law was then packaged. At least here we are debating both in the Commission and in this House, both in the first and the second branches, albeit with a limited time. I would also like to make a simple notation on the first question raised about the validity of the resolution of the election committee, but I will say things taken for granted that President Schifani is well aware of his experience and that I believe he will not be able to deny. The elective Assemblies, in particular the Senate, are strongly monocratic systems in which the role of the President assumes a guarantee function in all that is the regulation of the activity of the organs of both the Assembly and the other forums of discussion and examination. There is no collegial appeal office on the validity of the procedures and results of the discussions and deliberations of the collegial seats of the Chamber or Senate, whether they be Councils or Commissions, so much so that only and exclusively the President, according to Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, is responsible for the judgment of admissibility in the broad sense, without even the possibility of listening to the opinion of a collegial body. This is, therefore, the guarantee of the monocratic balance organ to protect all parties and not the remission of such a delicate matter to a majority, which could be different from that recorded in the deliberating body. Other is the role of the Presidency Council - as President Schifani is well aware - which has powers which are clearly indicated in Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure and which today was meeting to address one of them with regard to a fact concerning a senator belonging to the election committee - and perhaps not just one - in the matter of possible sanctions in relation to abusive words addressed through social networks. Therefore, it is quite understandable that the seat which decides on sanctions is collegial, just as it is quite understandable that there is no collegiality in the assessment of the admissibility of resolutions of other bodies. Therefore, in the seat of the Presidency, we have dealt with this issue, in the context of the prerogatives and competences of the Senate bodies, and I believe that we must avoid calling into question the role of guarantee of the President of the Senate, because this would affect - I believe - the parliamentary activity of all the Groups, considering that today someone is in a situation of dissent, but tomorrow it could be protected from the exercise of the prerogatives of the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u83	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, on the issue of decree-laws, I see that President Schifani today discovers what unfortunately happens with a certain regularity and frequency. I am referring to the fact that we are forced at the last minute to have to dismiss, deal with and discuss decree-laws without any possibility, given the very short time, to deepen them. The same thing has happened - I would like to remind President Schifani - also for the IMU decree and the one on feminicide. We could make a long list, so much so that we have dealt with this issue several times in this House. I would remind President Schifani that this subject was the subject of extensive discussion when we were called upon to discuss and then to approve in this House the draft constitutional law for the establishment of the bicameral commission, concerning the powers of the executive overabundant with those of the Assembly, and we have addressed the issue of the decrees themselves. However, we have been accustomed for a few days to surprises from President Schifani, like last week, when he wanted to call us to respect the sentences. With regard to the question raised with regard to the Presidency Council, I would like to start by reminding you that the agenda on which this body was convened concerned only information on matters relating to the use of information systems, social networks, on an episode on which we all know, since, among other things, a sort of report was read in this House by Senator Calderoli on the use made of it at that sitting. And so, in any case, the Presidency Council, which has jurisdiction in this matter, would have had to say - something that has not happened, nor has there been formalisation in this regard - on any disciplinary procedure, if the Council itself had recognized the extremes for this, but it does not seem to me that, among other things, this has not been done formally. 18.22 (Followed by Mr De PETRIS). On the other hand, as regards the much more serious matter that is being repeated, because it has already been dealt with at the meeting of the Leaders, on the alleged non-regularity of the decisions taken by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities regarding that distorted use (insults, communications) via social networks compared to what happened during the meeting of the Junta, I recall once again here that the Presidency Council is not at all competent to decide on the regularity of the decisions taken by other bodies. Furthermore, as Senator Lanzillotta rightly pointed out earlier, and even earlier, President Zanda, for the experience I have had in this House, which is absolutely inferior to that of President Schifani, who has presided over it and who has also been, as it is also now, President of the Group, it is well known that it is for our Rules of Procedure only for the President, who is in fact the guarantor of the Assembly - and not by chance never participates in the vote - the decision on the admissibility of amendments and requests made in this Chamber. I would remind you that this has happened many times, even to me personally, in the past, particularly during the period of the Pera Presidency, the five years of that parliamentary term - you can also see the precedents - when perhaps, like many other senators, I did not agree with the decisions taken by the President in relation to the problems and conflicts raised in this House, but this is our Rules of Procedure. I find it really incredible what is proposed, because there is no element that would suggest that a decision taken by a Council or a Commission could be examined by another body, which the Senate does not foresee. It would really be absurd for this to happen. You know perfectly well that, as is the case with other committees, including the guarantee, the decision (as will be the case on 27 November not with our vote in favour, because we would like to discuss it much earlier) will be brought back to the House: the House will discuss it, approve the proposal, or present different agendas. This is our guarantee system, our operating system. I conclude by saying that I understand that every day and every half hour we have to make up a pretext, but let us at least try to avoid calling into question the cornerstones and also the guarantees of the functioning of this House. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u86	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am somewhat embarrassed to make this speech with you as Vice President, as I would have had if Vice President Gasparri had been there, because at other times I was faced with very sensitive issues for which the presence of the President of the Senate would have been appropriate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Do not be embarrassed, because the President will have the opportunity to read the acts and to take advantage of all the reflections that have been carried out also by the Vice Presidents. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Beyond the embarrassments, I can say I'm mad because I don't have the President in front of me. Excuse me: I said it nicely, but I would also...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u87	Excuse me, President, but it is entirely legitimate, because this debate has not been announced in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So, if the President had planned so that the Vice-Presidents would chair and this debate intervened without it being included, I think that this should not be a cause for disdain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u88	This is your assessment, but I can "sorry" it as long as I want, because I was in the office too and then I went down because of the importance of the debate, Vice President. I'm surprised, because I'm reading an agency right now saying, "Berlusconi: for Fat question vote in Junta is closed. Sources of the Senate Presidency, in relation to the question posed by the PdL, point out that the discussion of the Presidency Council is closed and there are no grounds to invalidate the vote of the Assembly of the elections. All this being, sometimes, when reference is made to the presidency of the Senate, I would like to know the origin of the sources, since there are quotes. I was present in the Presidency Council and it seems to me that the abandonment of one part of the Presidency Council has meant that there has been no quorum and therefore no resolution could be taken there. However, Madam President, in addition to the formal aspects, I would like to thank President Grasso for putting an information on the agenda, which was sent to us on 15 October and which I had the pleasure of reading in this House on the afternoon of the same date. Luckily, even if late, someone noticed: the attention you devoted then was equal to zero, but today it becomes the object of the discussion. (Brusio). I see, however, that colleagues who raise the problem, then become disinterested, as happened on 15 October. I believe that, beyond the case on which we are discussing, the problem is not so much referred to a single person, that is to say to the decadence of Senator Silvio Berlusconi, but is related to the information note that the President has sent us. From it it is evident by tabulas, through a feedback made on all the social networks - which no one had asked for, but which falls within a free initiative of the Presidency - who during the course of the work of the Junta, both in public session and in the chamber of council, communicated with the outside. I myself have intervened to defend my fellow Senator Crimi, because frankly I did not think there were any contents that could lead to abnormal behaviour on the part of the person concerned. What struck me was that in a boardroom, where there should have been a waterproofness compared to the outside world, the members of the Junta freely contacted the outside world. This results in tabulas, thanks to the feedback made on social networks. I therefore wonder how many telephone contacts there were at that time with the outside world, beyond the number - which I believe corresponds to nine - of those who posted something outside. I know that the seat of the Council is not a chamber of advice in the strict sense, but I believe that there should be no possibility of communicating anything with the outside world. We know, however, that this waterproofing has been violated, and we have therefore failed to comply with the rules laid down in our Rules of Procedure. The point, Mr President, is not just about the matter: I do not want to be angry with President Stefano, who is a person for whom I have the esteem, but if we were to face the President of a Junta who was to give the numbers and proceed without respect for the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you which body is entitled to intervene and correct the errors that have been made in relation to the Rules of Procedure. That is what I have raised before the President today, and I believe that, under Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, it is the President who should judge the admissibility of the documents and therefore the conclusions of the Junta. If the President summons this body on the agenda, not the possible sanctions to be imposed, but the disclosure of the facts that have occurred, I believe that legitimately the Presidency has been charged with expressing a decision on this aspect and that, with regard to an irregularity, proven by the President's investigation, he should declare that the conclusions concerning the revocation of the President, or Senator, Berlusconi, are inadmissible. This should have been done. But it is not possible that every time the numbers turn to the negative - and on that, I am sorry, some doubt comes to me - it is decided that the collegiate body no longer applies, but decides the President. [[Applause from Senator Mussolini]] When a collegiate body is convened, that body votes, and it cannot be said: Madam Teacher, they stole my pencil and then I leave the Chamber! You go to the vote and you get to the end, not counting the numbers, much less taking note of the opinions expressed, in your case, in that place, since then after who did it had to get away. But when there is a collegiate body, in the end we vote: even if we are losers, we vote. This has not happened today and, I believe legitimately, some who had at heart the Regulations have abandoned that assembly, but it cannot have a conclusion by declaring: "We have given and, in the end, we have already closed." Eh, no! It will recover and it will be done by a vote, because democracy wants a vote. Otherwise, if you think, as you did in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, that the Rules of Procedure itself should be changed, then let us return to the Twenty-Year period. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u89	The President will have the opportunity to take stock of the issues raised.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u90	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u91	Madam President, Minister and members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let us return to the school decree. I would like to thank Mr Galletti, who has always been present in the Commission, although he has only had one day. Since constitutional reforms have not yet been made and there is this parliamentary system which provides for two Chambers, although I must point out to you that the establishment of the measure is good but that much remains to be done and that much could also be done in this House, I must point out that the time that has been given to this House, Minister, is certainly not enough. The Commission itself has not been able to table many amendments. It had already happened for the decree value culture of 8 August 2013, but the decree under consideration is of 12 September: it could be built in time. I hope that you will act in this direction, because it is not acceptable for the Senate of the Republic to come to this decree-law and there is no time to amend it, to discuss it and to try to improve a text that we ourselves wanted and want to vote, trying to make our contribution. The timing has been too short objectively, and I think that is obvious to everyone. In this respect, the example of the rapporteur of the Chamber of Deputies who would resign and therefore delay approval in that Chamber is of little importance. That is not the way of thinking, because if you refer - as is often the case - to the Regulations, I believe that it is provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the House that the rapporteur can resign. So either the Regulations and the rules are always valid or the rules are only valid, and they are pulled for the jacket, when it suits someone. Of course, Minister, this does not intervene in the work you have done. As I said, the provision is good, but much remains and could be done. I just ask that there should be no lectures that do not exist, that sometimes touch one group and sometimes another group, because this Senate is made up of decent people. When we intervene on the Regulations, we do so because we have the right and duty to do so as a Group of the People of Freedom, of which I honour to be a member. Having said that, Mr Minister and Mr Undersecretary, as you can understand, we have not been able to make a contribution as much as we wanted. As for the articles, I allow myself to enter those that I consider critical with respect to the provision. I am referring to financial cover. As you well know (we had already mentioned this by examining the decree value culture), this continuous increase in excise duties, as financial coverage, does not please us. Already last time we pointed that out. I would like to point out that in Article 25, which deals with covers, we are talking about beer, intermediate products of alcohol, ethyl alcohol, and it is rightly pointed out that this will affect an aspect which we voted on with the decree on culture. Since we are sure that even what our Group says is listened to with the utmost attention by the Government, I would point out that these excise duties have still been charged. As far as intermediate alcoholic products are concerned, I remind everyone that the latter include, for example, the white wines of Veneto, the white wines of Trentino, the wines of Tuscany, the wines of Sicily, so it concerns wine producers. Then it is not increasing the excise duties that you get something. By increasing excise duties consumers are hit: it costs more the product, it is bought less, and surely production is also affected. Then this mechanism of excise duties and their continuous increase we sincerely do not like - we have already told you - and it is used once again also for the decree on education. This is something we do not like, just as we do not like, Minister, the establishment of a fixed measure of EUR 50 for each of the mortgage and cadastral taxes. It is an increase in costs that affects citizens. Instead, we believe that in order to find the resources we must go in the sense of cutting public spending, because it is too easy to build decrees always weighing on the pockets of the citizens. This is to tell you frankly that these aspects certainly have to do with the school decree and the interventions that you have built, as well as the overall system of the decree - as I said in premise (to make you understand the spirit with which I speak to you) - is good, but the question of financial coverage remains open. Unfortunately, we do not like financial cover in these terms. We have said this before and we continue to repeat it, because I think it is appropriate to make our contribution. Having said that about the critical aspects of the decree, i.e. the narrowness of the examination times for the Senate Chamber and the issue of financial coverage (which are not minor aspects for us), I would like to go into the merits of the decree to tell you that there are certainly good aspects, such as Article 1, which contains provisions on student welfare. I hope that the issues of merit will also be dealt with in an important way, since there is still a lot to be done (if you make one say that like me comes from the world of sport, where you do not run away from the merit, because what you are worth proves it at the race), because if words remain the school does not progress and the world of university does not progress. I believe that the issue of merit is a fundamental one. There are other positive things in the decree, otherwise I would not say that the plant is good, like the resources for scholarships: 100 million euros, if I remember correctly. That is certainly a good thing. We also appreciate the amendment that the House has introduced, because, as I recall, the rule has been adopted that 3% of the resources that come from property confiscated from the Mafia are intended to finance these scholarships. This confirms what I said before: how the House managed to do a good job on the decree, giving its own contribution (all Groups, because the House is made up of capable people), we too would have liked to contribute to the improvement of this decree. I tell you the truth: we also greatly appreciated Article 3 and Article 4 of the decree, the latter banning smoking not only in the enclosed places of relevance to schools. Let me also say a word about Article 10 on school building, which is allocated around EUR 617 million over two years. That is certainly a good thing. I hope that we will then see the results, because the implementation of the measure is good and I am sure that you will follow the implementation of the rules we are talking about. The schools where we send our children, in fact, absolutely need these resources. I tell you the truth: Article 10 could be worth the decree alone, because it is an important measure that is adopted in relation to schools. I believe that no one in this House can think otherwise. There are many other small or big things that deserve a different insight instead. For example, I would like to make one point: I have read little or perhaps read nothing - you will correct me - about equal schools. I believe that there is a great deal of debate going on about equal schools, because it is shared that parents have the right to send their children to the school they consider most appropriate. I think that's easy to understand. Maybe I'd like to find something compared to that. The training of teachers is fine, absolutely yes, but out of about 400 million I see a lot of resources for training and teachers, a large share. If teachers are meant to educate our children, as they are, this training should take place, but I only wonder if the relationship between the two funds is the right one. So, Minister, Mr Undersecretary, who has followed the day-to-day work by dedicating a day to the Commission, the plant is good, but I believe that much remains to be done. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u92	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u93	Madam President, on empty benches and with the guerrilla war that has opened up on the matter of the decadence of Senator Berlusconi, I would like to give the text of my speech to the Presidency and the Minister, hoping that he will read it. It was all about it. I take, if you will allow me, just two minutes to say in what context we shall vote on the cultural decree. The context is, of course, that of a political phase that is coming to an end. Senator Schifani in this House has discovered that the government exaggerates with decrees. But didn't Schifani know that the government from the beginning, since the broad agreements were formed, goes on by decrees, in fact expropriating the possibility for Parliament to make laws? We arrive systematically with the characteristics of urgency and necessity and the time to turn them into law is very short and the risk that in this way the lobbies weigh is very, very strong. Schifani knew very well, but the point is that he finds out today because he wants to give a warning to the government. On the other hand, Senator Bondi outside this Chamber says that the Carrozza decree is not good because, by stabilising a number of precarious people, it favours the electoral interests of the left. Those are Senator Bondi's words. This phase has begun. We know that. There is not only this: there is, of course, the guerrilla that has the objective of not having Senator Berlusconi vote in this House. We get it. So, Minister, the point is: how do you move forward? What has happened and will happen now on the school decree is only the aperitif of what will happen with the law of stability. With this we will see, first in the Commission and then in this House, a guerrilla breakdown in which the needs for the positioning of the various currents within the parties and the signals that the parties want to give to the government will take precedence and will prevail over the merits of the issues. I believe that anyone who cares about the fate of the country should reflect on the way out of this political phase. I want to add one thing, since we are talking about culture. We in the Senate rightly criticize a senator for having said - forgive me - a nonsense at "Report" but we do not speak at all of a very serious thing that a colleague of ours, a senator of the Republic, has done and of which the newspapers in Italy are full, having the nerve to compare himself, his family and his own judicial troubles, of which he is largely guilty, to the persecution of the Jews under Hitler. [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] I would ask you to believe that in this situation it is almost useless to make substantive speeches. I hope, however, that my modest remarks will serve the Minister, whom I thank for his presence. D'ANNA (PdL). You made a marcetta. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u94	Senator Mineo, the Presidency authorizes you to deliver the written text of your speech. He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, representatives of the Government, I take the floor on the subject of the day, the decree-law on school, although I only take a few minutes to mention the debate that has taken place today on this discomfort that we all feel in not having time to discuss a measure. However, I believe that we must also look ourselves in the face and be clear and sincere: at the moment when we criticize the bicameral equal system as recognized too slow and dispersive even in the times, we cannot then complain when we try to find a way to avoid this dispersion of times and concentrate the work. I cannot believe, however, that the political forces represented here do not dialogue with colleagues in the House, who are over 630. In any case, when the House of Deputies examines a measure for a whole day, I do not think that it is in a position to interpret the political positions of the respective parties. I feel therefore the embarrassment and discomfort of having to fly over some issues that perhaps wanted to be deepened; however, equally concretely, I say that the instruments for the expression of the opinion of the parties and for the exercise of democracy are still there even when it is only one House to examine a measure carefully. Moreover, if both the Chambers, with the committees responsible for each matter from time to time, intervened on every measure, the individual draft law would probably not be finally dismissed by Parliament if not after many months. The very fact that it took us an hour to discuss the order of business in this House today, which had nothing to do with the measure on the agenda, says a lot about the fact that there is often a risk of wasting time here in words that could perhaps be avoided. I am not criticizing anyone - first of all, I am criticizing myself - but I believe that a little self-criticism would be necessary when, on the one hand, we criticize the bicameral equal system and then, on the other, we are scandalized if, in fact, a monocameral system is applied at times. This is, in my view, a matter of practicality, so I am glad that they are resigning instead of measures, because we are trying to catch up on lost time, in which unfortunately this House or Parliament has failed to legislate in its entirety. Today, in fact - we must tell the truth - we are buffering and trying to adjust a whole series of legislative shortcomings, overlaps, superproduction or legislative over-production, since each law amends 40 different measures. So let us not hide behind a finger: unfortunately, the system did not work and, if we are trying to make it work today, I think we should all be satisfied with this. The bill we are debating today also responds a little to this logic, because it fixes many things. There are certainly many positive aspects, even if - I do not want the Minister - it would have been necessary to carry out a further act of courage, because the school today perhaps needs something else. I want to highlight first of all the positive aspects, including certainly the fact that we consider the school included in a wider system, which is not only that of knowledge or knowledge, but also that of, for example, the culture of food, the promotion of local products and therefore also - why not - the support of the economy of the territory, as well as the promotion of typical food and agriculture. It is no coincidence that the undersigned, when he was still a city council member of the Autonomous Province of Trento, had promoted a bill in this sense, precisely for the promotion of the culture of food, and especially of the products of the territory. Just as I appreciate the fact that we wanted to work on health prevention, encouraging proper eating behaviour. I would also like to mention all the rules to discourage the use of nicotine and all interventions to promote access to education and knowledge (i.e. multiclass, celiac or disability measures). There is no doubt that this legal text extends the possibility for young people to access education, and that is certainly a good thing. I am also pleased that some thorny arguments have been addressed, which have been the subject of a series of e-mails from which we have all been stormed, and rightly so, since they made themselves interpreters of a state of real injustice. This much of the legal provision also provides for these situations. I also share, in my approach to young people, the involvement of museums and all other structures responsible for knowledge and teaching, because making the most of the knowledge network we really have is certainly a positive aspect. I also note that a strong focus has been placed on technology, digital, as well as on high-level training. I am referring to the academy, the recovery of institutions and specializations, the exploitation of research, all of which are absolutely positive aspects that I would like to highlight in this context. I said, however, that I would expect more courage, because the problems of the Italian school are not just these, it is not enough to adjust some subjects and some aspects lacking. The Italian school needs an extra gear. It needs, for example, a different system of recruitment of teachers, who are currently stabilized at an advanced age, when they now have a substantial training and work path behind them, and so we find ourselves with a teacher class often outdated in methodologies. The school should anticipate society, changes, or even favor them. We would need teachers not only in step with the times, but even able to anticipate them. Instead, we have a teacher class that is often very advanced with the age that, moreover, with the new pension rules, will find themselves having to teach at age perhaps not suitable for young people or very young people. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Not to mention the university professors, even these often of advanced age. I conclude by saying that as a Group, but also in the Committee on Agriculture, we have expressed our doubts as to how we have come to cover the costs of this measure: to continue to focus on excise duties, in particular those applied to craft and quality beers, seems absolutely out of place; not to mention the increase in the fixed registration, mortgage and cadastral tax. After having managed to foresee in the bill of stability of the facilities for the small peasant property, it is decided to increase the fixed taxes. However, it seems to me that the Government has already expressed its will to remedy this situation through the stability bill. I hope this will happen. If this were not the case, it would actually be a blatant injustice. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u96	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been the case many other times in this legislature for decree-laws in other areas, the world of school and university had put great expectations on this measure; good wishes, however, which soon turned into a fiery disappointment. From this decree-law was expected much more, especially because after years of unnecessary and severely worsening reforms it was thought that the time had finally come to remove school and university from the state of uncertainty, confusion and precariousness that characterizes it ensuring greater stability to the entire education sector. Again, however, the Letta Government has confirmed the criterion that has characterized its political action for seven months: to give the perception of changing everything and then, in the end, to leave the state of things unchanged. Coming to the analysis of the substance of the measure, it cannot fail to immediately jump to the eye the fact that the decree-law does not make available important resources for the construction of schools and the safety of buildings. This is one of the priorities that the PD-PdL government should address, but to the citizens it is increasingly clear, dear colleagues of the single party, that on the real needs of the country snuffed out not so much to find a broad understanding. Or, those few times that you manage to agree to the point of allocating 150 million euros to school construction, as happened in the decree-law of the "don't do", do not allow the local authorities to really have access to the funds by imposing very tight deadlines in the presentation of the restructuring projects. The classrooms fall apart, 10,000 institutions should even be demolished because they are not up to standard. Do we have to wait for the tragedy? Do we have to wait for some class to fall on our kids to do something? In the latest report on safety, quality and accessibility at school, it has shown that 67 percent of the school buildings monitored are located in areas with high seismic risk and only 44 percent of the schools have the certificate of static agibility, 38 percent that of sanitation and 37 percent that of fire prevention. At the same time, we are forced to observe powerless that the parties will continue to divide, for 2014, 91 million euros of public funding and in the law of stability are expected 220 million euros of financing to private schools. We still have in our minds and hearts the collapse of the school of San Giuliano di Puglia of October 31, 2002, in which 27 children and their teacher lost their lives. Those 27 angels look at us and we are ashamed in their eyes for you, but the 5 Star Movement does not forget! I also wonder and ask you: to what extent can the ludicrous resources made available by this measure actually improve school and public university? I believe that we must be extremely sincere, ladies and gentlemen, and clear the field from any illusion: these 450 million will not have any appreciable effect on reality, not least because they are buffer and extremely fragmentary measures which basically do not solve any of the problems of the school and above all do not allow us to open up new scenarios and new opportunities, such as the adaptation and linking of educational programmes to the exploitation of public and national parks, because they have not been included in the decree rules aimed at facilitating and ensuring greater integration of students with disabilities and there is also still no effective measures to reduce the dramatic percentages of school drop-out and dispersal. Investing in school must be a priority for any government that loves its citizens. Those who do not invest in young people show that they do not have a vision of the future. Nor were there rules to ensure a healthy diet in school canteens, but thanks to the considerable work of our Group in the Chamber of Deputies it will be compulsory to use, within the same canteens, an adequate proportion of organic products, as well as the prohibition of administration through food distributors that damage the health of students, because they contain additives, sugars, caffeine and tea. The programmes that the Minister of the Environment will have to prepare for conscious consumption in school environments will have to be based on local, seasonal and organic products and will have to involve organizations and associations dealing with consumption from a conscious and supportive perspective. And it is still the merit of the 5 Star Movement if the provision has been inserted in the Chamber the guarantee for foreign students of age to be able to dispose, immediately after having finished the university school education, of twelve months of time for the search for an occupation, avoiding in this way their immediate expulsion. Despite the fact that the measure has been reworded in some respects, especially thanks to the active contribution of colleagues Cinque Stelle of the Chamber, this decree remains equally inadequate to raise the Italian school and university system, strongly disassembled in its cultural and social value. There is talk of major programmes for schools, which do not even have the necessary resources for daily teaching and whose teachers are mortified by a high ratio between the number of pupils and teachers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u98	She is registered to speak Senator Di Giorgi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u99	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this decree, which I attach great importance to and which comes at a time, even economic, complicated, at a time when there is a need for policies for school, university and scientific research, is aimed at promoting a qualitative leap and a reversal of the trend. It is a first step, certainly not exhaustive, but certainly important, because although there are still insufficient resources, as the colleagues of the various political groups have said, there is a reversal of the trend, which appears strongly in this decree: education is brought back to the center of the policies for the development of the country. The Minister also told us in his report at the beginning of his term of office and we have followed his work and we very much appreciate the commitment he is making, despite the difficulties he is facing, to implement the policy lines that we shared and that we would like to be shared with conviction by all those who have responsibilities in this Parliament at the moment. Let us not forget that the successive governments over the last few years have ended up considering school, university and research as one of the many spending chapters in the state budget, which is therefore subject to unbearable cuts. The crisis, according to the logic that in difficult times everyone has to make sacrifices, has ended up further penalising investment in education, mowing hopes and confidence in the future of entire generations. The idea that knowledge and knowledge are not essential for the development of the person and the country has been passed, but something on which one can safely operate, even with the acceptance, in order to recover resources. This is, in fact, intolerable. It was a desperate choice, an absurd, dramatic choice, unable to grasp in education the central pivot of any policy of economic and social revival of the country. That is why policies on education, scientific research and university cannot be considered sector policies, but must be considered structural policies, policies that serve to revive our country. So, before we were economically impoverished, we did something even worse, if possible: that is, we ended up impoverishing ourselves culturally and socially, while this problem should be at the center of government agendas and political strategies in a civil and European country that looks at young people, development and the future. We have seen that other countries in Europe, even in times of crisis, have made much more investments in school. We should have taken an example; alas this has not been done in recent years and I believe that now is the time to begin, and the decree on which we are working, presented in these days, goes in this direction. Without school a country dies, we have said so, Minister, several times. School is therefore an important element and without it they lose meaning concepts such as equal opportunities and equity. We need a sharing of objectives at all levels to relaunch public school and for education to become one of the cornerstones of our country, driving the evil shadow of a slow and inescapable decline. This is where the decline of a country starts, so it is above all here that we must invest. It is important that the Heads of Government and, in particular, the Ministers of Economic Affairs, with whom the Ministers of Education or Culture always wage war, take it well. We remember in fact that unfortunately we said the same things when it was the time to approve the decree-law value-culture, because unfortunately there is always this conflict. The government must realize that it is in these sectors that we must invest in order to grow the country from all points of view. For this reason, today we are called to make a choice that looks into perspective, because we cannot condemn ourselves to live day by day, without an overall vision and without a project of revival and development of Italy that starts precisely from school, university and research. The decree-law in question brings education to the fore, thus returning to investing in the future. I mention only a few points because it is clear that in this perspective I find many positive elements, although I too can still be dissatisfied with the investments and resources made available. Probably no more could be done at this time on this decree-law; we hope that in the next steps, particularly immediately in the draft stability law, on which we are working at the moment, important resources can be made available in the field of school, university and research, as advocated within the 7th Commission and as we have been demanding for a long time in this Senate. I would like to mention Article 7, which provides for measures to deal with the problem of school leaving through supplementary teaching programmes linked also to the extension of school hours. This is very important and those who made the administrator in the territories know it very well: it is the strong theme, it is what the families require us, so I greatly appreciated the attention that has been placed to you. It is expected to spend almost €4 million, then €11 million in 2014, so this is a fairly significant investment. Article 8 further expands the orientation paths for school students: in fact, we know that this is the most important thing for dispersion to begin to decrease in our country. Guidance education must be given, especially for parents and children. Finally, Article 10 deals with a very important aspect which has been referred to us several times by the ANCI and the local authorities: I am referring to school construction and the issue of tax deductions. With this measure the mortgages will be contracted by the regions in which the school buildings are located and therefore also on this we will have a good impulse. There will then be investments in wireless and some kind of simplification (as desired and desirable) with regard to university and scientific research, but I reserve the right to intervene in this regard in order to present some agendas. I believe that with regard to this issue, the government has taken the right direction and we hope to be able to further enhance the sector as it deserves. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Santangelo and Giannini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u100	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is meant to be reunited to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u101	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u102	Madam President, I would like to begin by telling you what has happened in the Health Commission, whose work has already been mentioned by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. I must say that the Commission has decided unanimously not to give its opinion on this decree. I have heard a number of statements on this subject and I would like to clear the field of the assumption that there has been any form of political pressure on the part of the House. We did not give our opinion for a reason of merit: the fact that we did not have the time to discuss was not an accessory element for us; it was not the way to make an internal controversy; it was not the choice of an opposition over a majority. It was, on the other hand, a matter of substance, because the issues represented by the Commission had an aspect - in our view - of great delicacy, which required further consideration, if not even the possibility of change. Beyond that, however, beyond the possibility or not of proposing changes and amendments, which of course is not only in our hands but in the dynamics of times that I still feel to stigmatize (one day is really too little), beyond all the problems, which I can understand, and on which I do not even want to intervene, but in one day it is really very difficult to intervene without being able to change, but trying to make the complexity of the subject. The complexity of the issue is on several aspects, and I say it with great regret, because I personally think this is a very important decree, which contains elements of enormous positivity: finally many questions have been closed for years, and therefore I thank that there is this decree. It is so for all subjects (now I mention only the titles). I am referring, for example, to the new centrality, which was not there before, which employs the teaching staff, which for the first time becomes a qualitative resource and not just a source of expenditure. This is - in my opinion - a cause of great satisfaction, which I can only welcome positively: the system is no longer a cost to be reduced. I also remember the theme of the precarious and the theme, really dear to me, of the tied institutes and of the whole part concerning the high artistic-musical formation, on which - well remember our two Undersecretaries, having been an active part, one to the Chamber and the other to the Government - there was a great controversy and unfortunately interrupted a very important path for the Italian education system. I quote only these for reasons of time, but there are many more. It is therefore a decree on which, while I intend to vote in favour, I feel this enormous regret. I'm going to the stitches. There are some points that are less central to a training profile in the health field and there are others that are profoundly worthy of credit and that stick to the future of our country's doctors. First of all, there is the issue of electronic cigarettes. There is no doubt that attention is placed on it in a certain sense at an extravagant speed, because in some moments it becomes a very important point, while in others it is an element of health damage. It is clear that everyone has their views on this matter and Professor Veronesi has expressed his opinion today; however, I think that such a matter would require greater transparency in the determination of legislative choices, so as not to expose himself to a risk that I do not believe exists, but that it is legitimate for someone to hypothesize, that is, a prevalence of the tobacco lobby over electronic cigarettes and therefore other methods, which could, however, even if it is still all to be verified, also combat smoking. This is a long history which obviously also concerns Europe and the tobacco directive. These are, therefore, very important issues on which perhaps greater attention would have been preferable, although I agree with the fight against smoking and prevention, especially against children. Precisely the issue of caution and bans on the use of minors for advertising - which is also an age-old one and dealt with in the course of discussions on other subjects in recent years - has some very weak points. The first, fundamental, is what is considered only the printed paper and television and is not considered instead, even if in a problematic way, because there are no precise solutions (but at least the indication of work for the future I request it from the Government), the web. We have put this issue on the subject of the debate on ludopathies, compulsive gambling, gambling; I now put it on the issue of combating smoking and, in particular, banning advertising. Let me just point out that the theme of observing the hours of the protected bands is illusory because children - as is well known - watch television at any time. I would like to refer to a European directive which Italy has transposed in which it is based on encrypted cards, which therefore prevent children from accessing certain time slots in such a way that the family is also responsible. The second topic, a little more full-bodied, concerns specialization and residents. The point very briefly is this: the duration of the courses. We know that there is a society that thinks differently, in the sense that there are different opinions. Personally, I find nothing wrong with the fact that we are adapting to the four-year European legislation, but a first aspect of the problem is the concern about the content of training. In fact, by reducing the period we must also understand how the training system works. Secondly, there is a problem of how we govern the transition, because of course we set four years, but let's not say since when, that is what happens for those who are now in the third or fourth year. I think this problem is obvious - we are not talking about scary things - and that is why we would have preferred to have the opportunity to say our opinion. The third problem is what concerns the rankings and how you access them because as long as you score, you will resume - so something more than the tests - having conducted a kind of internship in university clinics, the possibilities and opportunities of access among students will be unequal. This is a point to be resolved if we do not want to return to a university of census, which I believe is out of the real intentions of everyone in this House and I believe also of the Government. Fourthly, there is the issue of local or national rankings, and I think we need to find a balance on this too. Today the young doctors protested and yesterday there were other young doctors; we must give a reassuring signal, possibly valid for all and able to make everyone lead as far as possible the path of specialization, knowing that perhaps it would be worth taking care, sometimes, also of general medicine, but this relates to the wider discourse of where the topic of medical specialization is addressed and where the topic of scientific and biomedical research, another great and long-standing problem. In fact, the theme of medicine and transnational research is still everything to be verified in our country. I say all this because with cross-border medicine and global openings of the world, we like it or not, the risk is that our boys and our girls decide to go to specialize abroad where they are welcomed, being the Italian one a good university, with open arms. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups and Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u103	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u104	Mr President, the last twenty years for the world of school, university and research have been very hard years; years of continuous cuts and impoverishment in the name of austerity policies. The ministers Tremonti and Gelmini were very keen on those aspects that made Italian school a recognised model in Europe: let's think about the full time, the experiences of childhood school, the team of primary school teachers and the significant experiments in upper secondary school. It has been years in which the amount with which the school was governed has been that of subtraction, sometimes very foolish: less teachers, less hours of class. We have been coming for years when the idea has prevailed that school is a cost and not a productive investment, so for fifteen years now the resources for education have constantly decreased and the school serves to cash out to cover the growing public debt. Imposing the school means hitting the weakest, but above all promoting the cultural degradation of the country. Today, after years, I think it is now clear to everyone that the choice to impoverish the school was not a choice of the moment, but a precise design, because a country that does not invest in school and training produces ignorance and ignorance produces addiction and resignation, which are an easy terrain for populism (in these years we have seen of various types). After such dark years it is therefore difficult for us to understand why the Government - Minister Carrozza - has renounced a law of reorder, just as it had announced us in the presentation of the program of Government, preferring to take refuge in the logics of the decree, raising great expectations in a forgotten world for years and that, again this time, it will be disappointed and deceived. It is true, as Secretary-General Galletti told us in the Commission, that the world of school and university would not stand for further reform, but - in fact - the government and Parliament should simply exercise their legislative functions to take on the enormous problems that those major reforms have produced over the years. You have given up and you have preferred to choose some issues without even solving them completely. We do not deny that there are positive signs, such as the stabilisation of teachers and ATA staff; Too bad the hiring plan is limited only to them. For all the others it is only expected that turnover will be paid: crumbs compared to the tens of thousands of precarious people who every school year have to be hired with annual contracts to meet the real needs of the schools. The 15 million for student welfare comment on their own, because other resources would be needed, as well as a national law on the right to study. It is thought that only for the academic year 2010-2011 were 180,000 eligible students and that, therefore, it would take about 600 million to cover the grants. To cover all eligible scholarships, between EUR 130 million and EUR 150 million would be needed, unless we are expecting a drop in eligible students. The decree-law does not provide any solution for the so-called 96 quota. For the time being, our agenda has been presented in the Commission, accepted as a recommendation, and we hope that it will at least be ready to take this into account at certain times, because the slowness and inability of governments to make up for their own mistake is truly incredible. The decree-law invests 450 million euros - it has been said -, recovering them, for about 90 percent, with an increase in excise duties. In absolute terms, it looks like a big figure, but - in fact - the cuts of these years at school were about 10 billion euros (so a few drops): 400 million euros, of which 13 percent for 2015 and 4% from 2016, will not go to school, but to refinance the fund for structural economic policy interventions. The remaining 10 percent of the coverage comes from micro-cuts to mission items of the MIUR budget itself and a cut to the Integration Fund by way of derogation. Thus, the government with one hand gives and with the other always takes away from the same. Of course, we consider investment in school construction to be important: almost EUR 1,300 million between the implementation of the Decree-Law, the 450 million of the Decree-Law and the possibility for local authorities to borrow for 30 years outside the Stability Pact. Too bad that "Cittadinanzactive" estimated in EUR 13 billion the essential need for the implementation of schools, without forgetting that it would be necessary to establish, sooner or later, once the Provinces were eliminated, who would be assigned the competences of school construction. The appropriation of EUR 10 million for compulsory training initiatives for all school staff is limited to 2014 alone and is not a structural allocation, almost as if the training of school staff was not a real necessity or could be done every other year. The decree-law contains several of these one-off measures: for example, the possibility of free access of role teachers only to museums and sites of archaeological, historical and cultural interest managed by the State is provided for the year 2014 and only within the limits of the availability of 10 million euros. I would like to remind you that teachers are not happy to accompany students on cultural trips, not because of the excessive cost of the admission ticket to museums, but because of too many responsibilities and the absolute absence of allowances. We are also thinking of extending school hours: an important measure against school dispersal, for which, however, there are only two years of mischievous resources available, using the Fund of School Institutions. In this way school autonomy becomes unworkable and we all know how important this intervention is, because school dispersal rates are very high throughout the country and, indeed, the latest investigations tell us that the dispersion after the first two years of high school has increased, from 2007 to 2010, by about one percentage point, more in the North-West than in the South. On this point, I believe that we will have to work, including using European reforms and re-evaluating pedagogical experiences, which tell us that the battle against school dispersal is effective when working from the early years of the training process. We are talking about primary school and middle school, which has been largely forgotten by all the reform projects that have alternated over the years. In that important training moment social and cultural differences can be recovered, working to strengthen basic, linguistic and mathematical skills in those age groups, to be able to prevent difficult paths, skills and abandonment, and increasing the number of teachers and hours of lessons. It takes a lot of money to do this, and on the other hand we are also being asked on the European agenda. The House of Deputies has tried to resolve the absurd affair of the bonus maturity, with a solution that - we have to say honestly - is not exactly happy, but in reality any solution is bound to displease everyone. The node is not the bonus, Madam Minister, but the abolition of the closed number, a necessary choice because after years of experimentation today we can decree the total failure of an instrument that has not at all facilitated access to the world of work, nor has it been a real filter. Finally, let us consider the issue of a residence permit for the entire duration of the course of studies as a matter of civilization. In short, we of Left Ecology and Freedom have a different idea of school, which is based on axes of freedom and equality, a secular, pluralistic, democratic school, open to all and for all life, a school that we would have liked to see reborn with a real Government of change, without those bad distinctions that still exist, a school in which public education is central and in which excellence is guaranteed to all. I would like to conclude by using this House to thank the teachers and school leaders who, with great dedication, passion and professionalism in recent years, have been a point of reference for school, maintaining high quality of public school, despite the inadequate remuneration, in view of their great responsibilities and the little recognition they have often had, by the successive governments and ministers, for the important social, as well as cultural, role they play daily. [[Applause from the Mixed-GAPp Group and Senator Ferrara Elena.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u105	Senator Anitori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u106	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the unanimous decision taken by the Health and Health Commission not to give its opinion. President De Biasi mentioned this problem earlier, which I would like to stress once again. After a careful and in-depth debate, this decision was reached on the grounds that the time available to the Commission for examination was too short, given the complexity of the measure and the many problematic aspects highlighted in the debate. I would like to point out some of the problems that have arisen in this debate, such as those in Article 4, where there is a ban on smoking in open spaces in schools, which, in the foreseeable absence of adequate supervision, can create considerable problems for non-smokers, who are at risk of high exposure to passive smoking in the facilities of the institutions' sanitary facilities. Moreover, the forecast of a mandatory obligation of supervision in the teaching staff is difficult to apply, decidedly unpopular and not in accordance with the teaching function. Moreover, the rules to encourage the conscious consumption of food (the so-called Mediterranean diet) and the provisions on celiac disease are not convincing. Therefore, forms of health education should be introduced to make students aware not only of the importance of proper nutrition, but also of the fact that regular physical activity should be combined. I would like to point out some problematic aspects that emerged in Article 15, such as the unification of support areas in high schools, which undermine the right to support teachers with specific skills, as provided for in the Framework Law of 5 February 1992, No 104, Article 13, paragraph 5, identified in the Functional Dynamic Profile (PDF) and the resulting Individual Educational Plan (PEI). In addition, in Article 15, I recall the rules for inappropriate teachers, who will have the effect of downgrading them to activities that do not fit in with their role and will result in the absence of activities currently carried out within the POF, such as those of the staff of the library or laboratories. With regard to specialization schools, where other Members have already expressed their thoughts a great deal, I would like to stress the complexity and delicacy of the subject under consideration, which would have deserved further consideration in terms of both the training system and the financial problems associated with it, as has already been pointed out above. In conclusion, while appreciating the work carried out on the drafting of the decree-law under consideration, I reserve the right to consider the possibility of abstaining. [[Applause from the Mixed-GAPp and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u107	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u108	Madam President, before I start my speech, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Giannini, for the simple reason that, when the President decided to choose the rapporteur for this measure, I think the best person was chosen. She presented the measure in a very polite and moderate manner in relation to the conditions and the situation which had arisen in the Commission. Therefore, I thank you for having moderated the outcome of the debate in the Commission. We are faced with a measure that is being treated hastily and, in our opinion, depressingly. Sadly, because over the past few weeks Italians have witnessed the debate in the Chamber of Deputies with the hope of seeing a serious debate in the Senate on one of the most important and strategic sectors of our nation: education. This sector is what creates and forms the citizens of the future, the workers of the future, the future of Italy. And it is depressing - let us emphasize this word - that the Senate of the Republic treat it in this way, as a boredom to be resolved in the shortest possible time, in the same haste that had marked the decree on feminicide. If you remember, some senators had also done their utmost to say that the decree that came to this House was examined in a very short time and in an unbecoming way. Since haste is a bad counselor, the discussion of this decree can only be spoiled. We would have liked to have talked and debated the plan to abolish the legal value of the degree. In our opinion it is not true that Italian schools are all the same, as some say: the grade of maturity and degree comes after a subjective analysis of the student's work and not with an objective evaluation equal for all; a subjective evaluation different, as well as between schools, also between student and student. We therefore want to leave to the proceedings of this House what wrote on August 31 of this year the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), not the newspaper "La Padania" (La Padania): in the South students get a higher average of votes than in the North (10-12 points of difference between Milan and Catanzaro; 16 points of difference between Milan and Brindisi, Crotone and Enna). And since in public competitions there is also a graduation and maturity vote, we consider this reform to be fundamental. We were hoping to see you in this House, given that these were urgent measures, as the Minister told us. We wanted to talk about the abolition of the college entrance test. We strongly want this abolition. Italy is one of the European countries with the lowest number of graduates: only 19% of graduates against a European average of 30%. University education is one of the fundamental rights of every citizen, guaranteed by the Constitution. The tests that are being used at this time are not, in our opinion, the instrument for determining who is able to study a particular discipline and who is not. Another important fact that we would like you to remain in the record is that 57 percent of graduation courses are now being selected at the entrance. So what do we ask? The total abolition of all barriers to university access. We regard this as an urgent matter, but we do not talk about it either. We wanted to talk about the bridge classes. The Minister has already declared himself in all ways contrary to this hypothesis. What are the bridge classes for? Not to ghettoize, as someone accuses, but to allow foreign children who arrive in Italy to learn Italian and the foundations of our culture. So, no ghettoization: it's just a modulation of our school based on what's going on in our society. Today the school is unable to understand what is happening in our society. But that's not even what we're talking about. We would have liked to have considered alternative and more serious proposals - as my colleagues have also said - for financial cover for this measure. A speaker has resigned to the House for this reason, or that was the excuse. The House's Finance Committee (we have read the proceedings of our colleagues who, fortunately, have been able to intervene and have been able to work on this measure, while we senators have not) has loudly asked for this financial coverage to be amended, based on the increase in excise duties on alcohol and the increase in taxes on real estate transactions, hitting two sectors that are already in extreme difficulty. This is not what Senator Centinario says, but the Finance Committee of the House of Deputies, which - I repeat - has been able to deal with this matter seriously. We would have liked to talk about motor literacy projects, a very important aspect for our children, and the possibility of transforming this project from experimental to definitive. In Italy 23 percent of children are overweight and 13 percent are obese. Do we want to solve this situation at least thanks to the school, since perhaps the parents are not able to do so and with the school could be successful? [[Applause from Senators Orellana and Bignami]] Do we want to give these children and families a serious hope? We have tabled a serious proposal which is one of the amendments. Let's see what happens. We would have liked to talk about article 20, relating to the qualifying bonus for entry tests: a modification of the current rules, while the game is in place. An abuse, in our opinion, from the Ministry that has created so many discontents among those who hoped that at least the State would be respectful of the rules, which was not. The House has voted on an amendment, and this text, in everyone's opinion, is worse than the previous one. Now we have him here and we have to vote for him. A lot of people write us e-mails and ask us: do you vote for this crap? Bravo! Are you our representatives? Bravo, you vote for him! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Why must we keep alive a ranking that is recognized as illegality? Why not activate a legitimate ranking right away? Then, tomorrow, Minister, let's do the reforms. We would have liked to talk about access competition to specialty schools. We would have liked to have reopened the debate on the single area of support and to confront each other in favour of and against because, again, it is not said that what is decided there, although unanimously, is gold-plated. It is not said that what is written in this decree is cast gold. Why can't we compare ourselves to the Senate of the Italian Republic? No, you can't talk about that. Given the premises, we will not be able to do any of this, anything we hoped to do. In these days the majority of our colleagues have urged us to do everything in a hurry, without discussing anything, talking about what could have been done, but which we will not be able to do, about the fact that this is an imperfect bicameralism. We have discovered with this provision that we are in a regime of imperfect bicameralism. Gentlemen of the Reform Committee, help us to overcome this imperfect bicameralism, which makes senators in this case or Members in other cases rather frustrated because they cannot give answers to the territories. We've heard that it doesn't happen again! But we have already heard these things, even now from colleagues. Let it not happen again: we have already heard it and we will hear it again. Therefore, we wanted to maintain our amendments, not as a form of obstruction, as some have accused us of, but to allow colleagues, not political forces, to meditate and perhaps vote on these amendments for their content and for what they represent, not for a temporal duty. Dear colleagues, let us continue to talk about the dignity of the Senate and of those who work in it. This is an opportunity. We have an opportunity between today and tomorrow: let us show the Italian citizens that this measure can be improved. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u109	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, as Vice-President of the Health Commission, I agree with the unanimous decision taken in 12a. Commission on the waiver of an opinion on Decree-Law No 104 of 2013 on urgent measures in the field of education, university and research, approved by the Chamber of Deputies and received to our Commission only 12 hours before the beginning of the examination, and with the need to express an opinion in this sensitive area in a very short time. We are talking about education, universities and research, areas in which our commitment and investment should be of primary importance and importance, both for the future economic development of our country and for the education of future generations. Dealing with these issues as urgent measures and in such momentous times pushes towards a superficiality and a pre-pochism unworthy of a civilized country, which only in words pronounces itself for a policy of innovation and investment on young people. Coming to the parties concerning the competence of the Health Commission, my attention and the whole 12a The Commission - which I must say is of very broad agreement, because we all agree on the need to defend health - has concentrated on some critical aspects in this decree, and in particular on Article 4, which contains measures for the protection of health in schools, especially with regard to the ban on smoking and the use of electronic cigarettes in institutions which are part of the education, education and training system. Paragraph 1 extends the smoking ban to the outdoor areas of the aforementioned institutions, while paragraph 2 extends the ban on the use of electronic cigarettes. Paragraph 5-e instead regulates advertising relating to electronic cigarettes, with a prohibition of advertising extended to liquids and refills for them. The criticalities arising from the reading of these paragraphs mainly concern the methods by which it is expected that these obligations will be respected, bearing in mind the lack of staff at school level and not even being able to think that the teaching staff functions as a body of control and application of any administrative sanctions. Without prejudice to the fact that within an institution where good practice is taught, we must set a good example by prohibiting smoking everywhere for both students and all school staff, we know that this will almost certainly be ignored by what has already been said. The second point concerns the use of electronic cigarettes. On this the scientific community has now opened an investigation to assess the impact on the reduction of smoking pathologies related to their use. We know that most tobacco-related damage is due to the burning of paper and tobacco which liberates a dozen carcinogens. With electronic cigarettes this is limited, so much so that, even by the European Oncology Institute, they are used not as a method of dissuadement from smoking, but as a technique to reduce the amount of cigarettes and therefore to see over time the effects on the possible reduction of lung cancer in smokers. Forbiding its use and advertising would therefore go against this vision, which tends to reduce this tumor disease, with a reduction in the costs borne by the National Health System, assessed annually in about €3 billion. From this point of view, therefore, many things still need to be found. We come to Article 7, which aims to address the risk of school dispersal, making schools open spaces and places of social cohesion for families and the community. For the realization of the program, paragraph 3 authorizes the expenditure of 3,6 million euros for the year 2013 and 11,4 million for the year 2014. What I would like to stress about this article is that, in order to prevent school dispersal, sports practice is also promoted and it is expected that motor activity will be included in the plan of the extracurricular training offer. I believe that the motor activity concerns the activation of a path that leads to socialization and aggregation among students, but at the same time the beginning of a health path linked to the beneficial effects of the movement that will have to accompany for life. I believe that relegating motor activity to an extracurricular offer is limiting and difficult to implement, given the numerous commitments that school-age children have with sport seen as a competitive practice and not as a healthy habit. I therefore think that it is much more logical to develop this concept in young people, inserting it into a training course in which motor activity should be carried out during school hours, with even a daily frequency. This could also lead to a better learning of humanities and scientific subjects. Article 21 is what certainly made us more discuss and reflect, even in the discussion in 12a Commission, as it modifies the rules governing the specialist training of doctors, both as regards admission procedures and economic treatment, as well as on the basis of the paragraphs added by the House with regard to the duration of courses, the determination of the number of specialists to be trained annually and the conduct of periods of training within the companies of the National Health System. This is a complex issue, both for training issues and for the availability of adequate financial resources within the health system. Paragraph 1 provides for a single commission responsible for the admission tests, instead of the local jury and the formation of a national ranking instead of individual local rankings; all this to ensure uniformity of treatment of candidates and to ensure access to schools for those entitled according to criteria of merit on a national scale. Welcoming the candidate's expectation of being judged according to meritorious criteria, which should favour the selection of the best, there are some critical issues. The first is of an economic nature, since in a period of crisis we will force families to spend more to keep residents (insufficiently paid) in places away from their homes to attend any school of specialization assigned. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. ROMANI Maurizio (M5S). We often compare other European nations without paying due attention to the fact that these students have been paid since the second year of university, with figures up to EUR 2,500 per month in Sweden. Some additional paragraphs provide that, by decree of the Minister of Education, in agreement with the Minister of Health, the duration of medical specialization schools will be reduced, while respecting European legislation on the subject. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator Romani. If necessary, he may leave the written text to the record; the Presidency shall authorise it to do so. ROMANI Maurizio (M5S). I shall then put down the written text to be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. In conclusion, for all these reasons, the Health and Health Commission considered that it could not give an opinion on the measure under consideration, thus putting the evaluation of the critical points raised during the examination into the hands of the President of the Commission and the President of the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Dirindin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u111	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u112	Madam President, Mrs Minister, on several occasions we have reiterated the criticalities that have accompanied the path, first to the Chamber of Deputies and then to the Senate, of the so-called decree of education, all legitimate criticalities, starting with the necessary, useful and unavoidable opportunity that the Senate should have to have the right time to discuss it. I think, however, that the instrument that we are helping to convert into law represents a contribution of Parliament to the realization of that knowledge society of which we all feel the urgent need for it to be realized in order to offer an extra opportunity to the country, to the citizens, to the families, in particular to the young generations, in order to put into practice a series of potentialities that still resist in the critical moment in which we live, in the still deficit social and economic moment that we go through. Therefore, while knowing that a series of investments contained in this decree-law are based and are realized thanks to a maneuver focused on excises, that is to say more taxation (which to us of the Group The People of Freedom does especially because it does not belong to our culture), I believe that having allocated 400 million euros more to the sector represents a good road that makes us aware that finally we are changing course, turns page. These resources are intended for the implementation and improvement of the educational building stock, including accommodation for university students, the extension of the staff and teaching aids, as well as the prevention of school dispersal. Well, beyond the numbers, which are also interesting and which give the moral figure of what Parliament and the Government can do for the world of school, I believe, Mrs Minister, that we should think of a permanent decree-law, open, that is, capable of improvements, able to transpose in the coming weeks and months everything that the belly of the country through the parliamentarians, and therefore the parliamentary institutions, represents. In this way we could certainly fill the void in terms of time and space that we complained in the examination and conversion of the decree-law instruction. Basically, we should act like the doctor who listens and feels the patient's pulse rather than making a diagnosis through the phone. Therefore, the willingness of the Government to listen, to listen to the requests of the country represented through the transmission belt of the Senate and the Chamber could well prepare the parliamentarians (but I believe the whole citizenship) so that this decree-law can be spoken well in terms of effectiveness and therefore of real utility for the needs of the country. Knowing, as I said in the premise, that realizing the knowledge society means not necessarily employing availability and financial resources, but intervening on that fabric of moral and ethical nature that is precisely the world of school, which is still a healthy fabric, which is still made by men and women able to give the best of themselves, who in teaching and who in learning. Knowing that this world of knowledge, which we hope will be realized also in Italy, can contribute to the improvement especially of the younger generations. In this regard, I believe that, as has been highlighted in this debate, we can positively assess the measure that concerns conscious consumption, namely the possibility of spreading in schools, through a process of learning also of pedagogical nature and knowledge of the material culture that presides over the intellectual culture, the culture of the land from which our foodstuffs come, which must be more and more environmentally friendly, biological and able to be taught in itself also for users and consumers. This is certainly a favorable point for the school decree. Another important aspect is that of initiatives to promote and produce digital teaching and teaching aids. This is an important step forward and I think it will be welcomed with great enthusiasm by the protagonists themselves in the world of school, because it will put them in a position to produce knowledge by themselves and will also give them the ability to pass it on. Equally important is the point where schools are placed in a position to know how important it is, particularly in the field of cultural goods, to prepare a future ruling class. I raised this aspect in an audition with Minister Carrozza on another occasion, when I pointed out that a country that wants to invest in terms of intangible culture, tourism and cultural heritage needs to prepare young people able to manage and explain to that flow of tourists also the greatness of our country and our past, obviously with a view to putting it in the universal availability of all tourists in the world. Equally positive are the measures relating to school welfare, such as the possibility of sharing the books also used, with the placing on the net of a series of schools for collective purchases of educational aids, including books, also putting families in the conditions of dialogue. I also consider it important to fight against school dispersal, which is mainly affecting the weak areas of the country, those who suffer, starting from the South, from which I come, and who obviously need to be recovered not only in terms of legitimacy, but also to make the children protagonists, together with families, within the school understood as an open space and as a moment of youth aggregation. These are my thoughts. I would ask you, Madam President, for a small one-minute derogation to make an appeal for investment, which in my opinion can represent a non-excessive expenditure in the rebalancing of the university system and, in particular, the turnover system. The weakest areas of the country in which smaller universities insist, or which are affected by the critical nature of the context, are now penalized even more, so this mechanism needs to be revised. This is the appeal I make to the closure of my speech. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u113	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u114	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Undersecretary, I will give the text my speech and I shall confine myself to a few brief remarks, so as to free the hostages of this House. In my opinion, it is worth, decisively and forcefully, voting in favour of this measure. We needed an important intervention on school building, which the country also required of us. I think it was a shame to pretend that everything was okay, with the school buildings that were still open, even though they often did not comply with the minimum safety standards, while we asked private companies and companies to observe the relevant laws and, if not, they were forced to shut down the business. It took a big recovery plan from this point of view. Both with the decree of the making, with the first 400 million, and with this measure, with the extremely interesting mechanism of the mortgages that involve the Regions and the local authorities, we take a decisive road that makes available to the provincial and municipal administrations a total figure of more than one billion euros for a total project of compliance of the schools. An important forecast, which deserves to be pointed out and which will see our vote in favour. I would like to point out, Madam Minister, that I have tabled an agenda on this subject, because I believe that the seismic and hydrogeological risk areas must be taken into account and priority given to them. I now come to two issues that have not been resolved, which I would like to highlight and on which I have tabled other agendas. The first is about scholarships. I believe that a further measure should be envisaged in a forthcoming intervention, because a country in difficulty like ours can only start from the need to enhance the merit, in particular of those who do not have the economic means. The State, as prescribed by the Constitution, must intervene in these cases. The other concerns the fund for virtuous universities. It is true that it has been a very debated and also disputed subject, but I believe it is a sign that we must have the courage to give, as we have done in other areas. I am referring, for example, to lyric-symphonic foundations, a very different environment, but one that belongs to a common project to relaunch the country system. Madam Minister, I conclude by saying to you that this decree can only be seen as a first step. It is not the stage of a process: it is the beginning. However, I believe it is an essential and decisive step, with which the Government and its Dicastery demonstrate that school, culture, university and scientific research are once again at the centre of your attention and government activity. In this way, perhaps we can finally reboot on the path of recovery. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u115	The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the written text of its speech. The general debate is closed. I inform you that Senator Petraglia has withdrawn all the amendments at her first signature, with the exception of Amendments 1.1, 4.18, 15.14 and 16.15. Postponement of the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title to other session
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u116	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-136.ana.u117	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, 7 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.07.
