ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,03 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u6	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u7	Senator Martelli, what are you asking for a quorum check on? I would remind you that the Minutes have already been approved. MARTELLI (M5S). I ask that to verify the presence of the senators in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Martelli, that's not possible. The Minutes have already been adopted and we must therefore continue to discuss the items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u10	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I agree with the request for the quorum to be checked just now, because yesterday the Heads of all political formations agreed to disconcert the sitting of this House, and so having asked for the quorum to be checked twice, as was the case yesterday, when the Heads of Group took this decision, it means that they do not respect those who represent this House, or the Heads of Group themselves. [[Applause]] The senators who meet in the Conference of the Leaders, together with the President of the Senate, represent the whole assembly. I therefore believe that in this case the verification of the quorum could not be required, partly because established practice does not allow it: we have therefore introduced a different way of managing the Senate Assembly. I do not think that is acceptable, Mr President. I therefore ask you to point out to the President of the Senate that we believe that this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u11	I'll let the President know what you said, Senator Barani. I would remind you that the Conference of the Leaders referred to the holding of the sitting on Tuesday and not to the next stage of the proceedings: I take note of what you have said and will inform the President of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u12	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1015. The rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 101 of 31 August 2013, known for the issue of precariousness in public administration, is being framed in this House, but in fact it is characterized by a much greater complexity. The topics addressed, in summary, range from the further containment of the expenditure for the so-called blue cars and the advice to the topic of the precariousness, from the arrangement of the supernumerary in the public administrations to the regulation of the contests for the overcoming of the precariousness, from the theme of the independent Commission for the evaluation, the transparency and the integrity of the public administrations (CiVIT), the Agency for the territorial cohesion, from measures on the system of control of the traceability of the waste (SISTRI) to the topic of the ILVA. It is therefore an articulated and complex decree, which in its discussion has also proposed the need that the decrees-laws have homogeneous themes, in order to allow those insights that otherwise are not possible: in fact, if they are framed in a Commission, which does not have all the necessary specializations, you cannot do the technical verification of the different arguments. I therefore hope that this laborious management will allow a very useful reflection for everyone, so that a different criterion can be found in the adoption of the decree-laws. On the other hand, Minister Franceschini has already committed himself to this. To sum up, because I believe that then the whole debate will develop in the course of the general discussion, I would like to stress that on the subject of precariousness in the public administration the decree under consideration has, in my opinion, the merit of addressing the issue no longer in terms of stabilisation, but in terms of the access of the precarious to a possibility of definitive settlement through a competition. (Brusio). Madam President, if it is possible to ask for a minimum of extra silence, because I also believe that it is difficult... He almost got it, Senator Pagliari. However, I call on everyone to lower their voices and listen to the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. At the level of the precarious, the approach of this decree in my opinion is positive. The theme is not to stabilize, as I said, but to give access through a competition, balancing access to the contemperation with the needs that come from the younger generations and from the legitimate aspiration to the workplace by the younger generations. This decree reserves 50% of the posts to the precarious staff and, in any case, poses the general problem of the possibility, after completing the competitions, of recruitment in terms of possible funding. Another theme that is posed is that of CiVIT. In this regard, the decree poses the problem of a reorganization, which in the original text provided for the division of functions for the verification of performance, which today, however - in advance of this, because I believe it is an important fact - in the amendments agreed and defined is overcome, in the sense that the CiVIT remains with all its competences, is strengthened and is transformed into an agency. So, on this level, you have a solution that looks organic, except then all the insights. The other issue that I believe should be mentioned here is that of the Agency for Territorial Cohesion; it is a subject that I believe will have space in the debate. It poses the need to ensure that this country is in a position to spend money on European funding and therefore assumes a problem that we all know is a problem across the country. The measure sets up an Agency which has the main function of ensuring advice and promoting the effective use of this money. I know that this is a sensitive and complex issue; we will listen carefully to what has been said in the debate. I can say that, in the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there has been an in-depth discussion that I believe has filled the needs of the regions and the definition of the role of the Agency in a framework of synergy and not of opposition, in a framework that must be oriented to allow Italy to address this issue with that as much of the drive, rationalization and efficiency of the system that is absolutely necessary. On another level, there is the issue of measures concerning SISTRI, a very sensitive issue, on which there is a great deal of attention and on which some urgent action is needed (because the system must start). On this point too, a broad debate has taken place from the text of the decree in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has led to the sharing of amendments which will be submitted to the House and which go in the direction of improving and creating positive solutions from this point of view. I would like to anticipate that, in the work in the Commission, professions and small farmers have been exempted from the obligation on hazardous waste. Therefore, measures have been introduced to eliminate the burden of SISTRI with regard to certain categories which, such as professionals and small farmers, would have an excessive burden compared to those which should be the concrete returns to their waste due to the complete subjection to SISTRI. As far as Ilva is concerned, there are measures with which attention has been paid to the situation that has arisen: it has been envisaged, for example, that in the Ilva area it is possible to build new landfills to allow the self-disposal of polluted land and to create a condition for returning to the normal situation of the company also in this respect. There are also measures that tend to intervene, in compliance with the decisions of the judiciary, on the powers of the commissioners and on the availability of the assets of the Ilva and the companies controlled by the Riva family, or in any case attributable to it, as regards the possibility of utilization of the assets in order to allow the further exercise of the entrepreneurial activity, preventing the seizure paralyzes the whole circuit and leads to the closure of the enterprises. From this point of view, I believe that everyone is aware of how the drama of Ilva certainly requires attention to be paid to environmental profiles, a subject which must, however, be contemporaneous with the necessary attention that the enterprise continues its activity for what is its centrality in the economic system of Puglia and for the vital importance that those jobs have always had and, I would say, more in the current framework of great difficulty. I think I have summarized the main passages of the decree in this way; I did not analyse all the arguments - and I apologise for that - but I think we will have a chance to discuss them in the course of the debate. I want to assure you from now on that in the amending phase there has been ample willingness to talk and compare, both with the subjects, as well as with all the ministries concerned in various ways by the provisions of the decree under consideration. From this point of view, allow me to thank all the Ministers and representatives of the Government for their great willingness, starting with Mr D'Alia and, in particular, Minister Trigilia, with whom the relations have been intense. I would also like to thank all the staff of the Ministries concerned for their patience and their wide willingness to discuss the substance of the amendments, which have certainly made it possible to make a reasoned and technically appropriate selection of the amending proposals. No less I would like to thank the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Heads of Group and all my colleagues for the work that has been done. Of course, my thanks also go to Dr Aquilanti and Dr Goracci, not forgetting all the staff of the 1st Commission, who had an absolute dedication and made extra-hours to achieve this result. Let me just add that I really believe - and I am not saying this out of piousness, but out of conviction - that the conduct of President Finocchiaro has allowed us to do a job which, while not excluding the examination of every single amendment, has led us to have, in the end, a framework of amendments which has been meditated and limited, so that we can carry out as thin a job here as possible, without "killing" the debate. I must say again, to complement the framework which I am called upon to resign to the Senate Chamber, that we begin the debate without the opinion of the Budget Commission, but we are in the process of general discussion. When we then come to the examination of the amendments and articles, we will also have this opinion, which will be indispensable in order to proceed. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the whole Senate, I extend a greeting to the two boys, Nicola Bertasa and Jacopo Caccia, present here, accompanied by Don Peppino and the mayor of Cazzano Sant'Andrea, who, I remind the whole Assembly, rescued a couple of their peers in the car burned saving their lives. They are an example of that Italy that makes us proud. Thanks, guys. [[Live, prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u15	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u16	Madam President, the decree-law on our examination, as usual, offers many critical ideas, including the part relating to public administration that sounds more like pre-election propaganda than an effective will to stabilise or hire people in the public. However, I would like to focus my speech on the SISTRI issue. Normally, when a machine does not work, there is a factory defect the company is required to compensate the buyer. What did we do with the SISTRI instead? We have created something useless and expensive by forcing, among other things, companies to comply with obligations. I remember that waste is divided into urban and special, meaning by special all those deriving from productive activity. By absurdity, a newspaper that is urban rejection if read by me, becomes special rejection if produced by a newsstand. The distinction between hazardous and non-dangerous waste is also important. This difference is defined according to the same rules of composition of the material according to which the danger of a new material or product is determined. This similarity is quite obvious: if something hurts health, it hurts whether it is new or used. Just as if it doesn't hurt new health and doesn't change its chemical and physical nature it won't hurt for just the fact that it's old. Internationally, since 2008 the classification of dangerous goods has been unified worldwide, as it is since 1991 at least that there are CER codes that, however, in Italy have been introduced only by legislative decree no. 22 of 1997, better known as decree Ronchi. At present, waste management in the Italian Republic is largely regulated by Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006. However, it happens that since 2006 the alleged Single Environmental Text has been novelized about 40 times, of which at least 10 related to waste management. In 2009, in fact, following initiatives dating back to the need for traceability of the management of special waste also with computerized modalities, the Ministerial Decree 17 December 2009 was issued which provided for the obligation to register this hypothetical system of computer traceability of special waste for a huge amount of subjects in some way related to the waste, from producers to transporters, to the operators of landfills and recovery plants, up to the managers of waste-to-energy and incinerators. This SISTRI's father decree provided that the alleged computerised waste traceability system would enter into operation and operate over a period of time from June to September 2010. But the test days of the system that had been planned first in May and then in September 2010, given the debacle of the click-days, produced the constant extensions, until 1 October next, the date on which by virtue of the decree-law of 31 August 2013, n. 101, it is claimed its activation. The aforementioned decree-law in Article 11, paragraphs 2 and 3, states that: for institutions or undertakings which collect or transport hazardous waste on a professional basis, or which carry out treatment, recovery, disposal, trade and intermediation of hazardous waste, including new producers, the initial time limit for the operation of the SISTRI shall be 1 October 2013. For the initial producers of hazardous waste, as well as for the municipalities and the transport companies of municipal waste of the territory of the Campania Region, the initial period of operation is set at 3 March 2014, subject to the provisions of paragraph 8. To date, therefore, the so-called waste traceability system provides that this traceability starts from the arrival at the destination of the waste. The obvious as absolute irrationality to claim to trace anything starting from the final outcome of the procedure denotes how the desire to maintain the SISTRI - just as it has been programmed and as it has already been tested with bad results - can have no meaning other than that all and only political not to cancel the contract with Selex, which has prepared it with the notes and at least suspicious procedures already under the attention of the judiciary. Moreover, the system - as it is prepared - does not provide any interface with any of the many management programs that since the adoption of the first Ronchi decreto have been developed and marketed for the initial producers of waste and for all the other figures involved in waste management, and this forces in fact all the passive actors to a double job heavily penalized by the relative sanctions, all at a time already of particular economic stress of the companies. It is to be believed that the Commission of Experts (including Edo Ronchi) to whom Minister Orlando... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please conclude. FUCKSIA (M5S). At this point I come to the conclusions. At the moment the SISTRI, as it is thought, even if it works computerically and operationally, will not give any effective traceability of the hazardous waste actually produced. The whole system is based on following and tracing rejection when the initial qualification choice on its dangerousness has been made. In fact, I think that the amendments that have been discussed extensively in the first Commission will not solve the problem, but we need to review the whole system as soon as possible, ensuring that the SISTRI not only has to be definitively discontinued, but that the inspection and re-elaboration of the data provided by the MUD - as it is currently prepared - to the Chambers of Commerce, and above all the activities of the regional offices of the Catastus of Waste, which if they really had to, in accordance with Article 189 of Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, make the tasting of waste with the data of the SISTRI, would provide an enormously distorted image and failing the Italian reality. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u17	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u18	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced, as the rapporteur said... (Brussio). Excuse me, ma'am, but I can't talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Especially for people in front of you. LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Madam President, I would like to stress what the rapporteur said, namely that we are dealing with a very large decree, and I would also like to point out that this House is debating a bit in the dark because both the decree-law and the amendments approved by the Commission there is not yet the opinion of the Budget Commission, and all the rules I am now talking about present enormous critical aspects from the point of view of public finance. We are therefore in danger of having a debate, on which the remarks of the Treasury and those of the Budget Service have already been made, not knowing exactly what the outcome of the opinion will be, which will be able to detect a violation of Article 81 of the Constitution already on the text. Having said that, in any case, since we are in general discussion and because of the complexity of the measure, I would like to draw the attention of the House to a number of points which we at Civic Choice, from the outset, have pointed out as central and on which our attitude will depend. The first point is the essential point of the decree, namely the stabilization of precarious persons. These are persons employed with a fixed-term contract or other flexible forms which have been gradually extended and which are now expected to be put in place within the limits of staff availability. In the meantime, while waiting for the competitions - and then I will talk about them - to be completed, what is derived from the text, and which the Commission seems to have corrected in part but in a way - in our view - which is still not clear, is that they are all being extended. This - in our view - involves a mismatch between the resources available for the financing of the posts of staff that have in the meantime been cut by the various spending review interventions and the compensation that will actually have to be paid to a much greater number of employees. That is the financial profile, but there is a substantial one in compliance with the principles of public administration laid down in the Constitution which, in our view, appears to be violated. In this case, the places available, which are still very few since they have been reduced, will be divided as follows: 50% to competitions totally reserved for precarious people and, therefore, with a closure to the outside; the other 50 percent to people who are taken from rankings opened already for five or six years and that are extended for another five years. This has as its first effect the closure of the public administration to generations of young people who see this outlet totally foreclosed, because the staff are saturated. On the other hand, if I may, it also involves not recruiting the best in the market for a public administration which we say must be qualified. In fact, the people who have worked must have valued their experience but in a competition open to all, where this experience can be privileged with a score. In the meantime, however, there are young people who are perhaps more competent and qualified, and so even people who have been placed in rankings for years are not as up-to-date as the evolution of administrative activities would require. The first point therefore concerns the precarious, the reserved competitions and the extended rankings for other years. The other point - in our opinion - very critical is the substantial stabilization by absorption into other public companies of the employees of companies participated by the State, the Regions and the local authorities that are in situations of default or are put into liquidation, because according to the spending review each municipality cannot have more than one. We absolutely don't know what we're talking about. As is well known, in fact, for several years we have tried to make a census of these realities and it does not come to the fore. You don't know how many employees there are, how many employees there are, and what pay levels they have. It is only known, because it has been established, that these people have been recruited without a public selection, so very often they are - as we know - the result of cliential practices and have bypassed public finance constraints. It is, therefore, a prize to a huge audience of people who today are - I understand - in difficulty, as there are also employees of private companies exposed to the mobility and Cassa Integrazione procedure. However, those who have had or still have to do with politics are extended a large umbrella and are passed on to companies that are asked to make fake industrial plans and to invent some other activity to absorb this staff. Beyond the profiles of fairness - I believe there is great discrimination between these people and those found in normal societies - I think there is a sort of time bomb that is put under public budgets. We know that these companies have very often concealed the deficit that could not be accounted for in the balance sheets. The last point, on which I believe a solution has been found in the Commission - I acknowledge the Minister but also President Finocchiaro for working in this direction - is that of the Independent Commission for the Evaluation, Transparency and Integrity of Public Administrations (CiVIT), which was improperly depowered in the areas of transparency and evaluation of administrations, and which is now being brought back to its original mission. Now, Madam President, we find ourselves in a difficult phase, because, lacking the opinions of the Budget Commission, we lack an essential element. I hope that in the course of the debate the issue of precarious persons will be clarified and brought back to the pre-existing legislation: I hope that experience will be given value, but not an absolute privilege, that the financial scope of these rules will be clarified. In our view, however, the whole rule concerning employees of public companies is frankly not sustainable. I hope that, given the critical economic and financial phase that we are going through, there will be an act of awareness and responsibility both of the Government and of Parliament. We are therefore counting on these points to be resolved in the course of the debate. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u19	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u20	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to draw attention to certain aspects of this measure on which we are beginning to work in this House, but on which we have worked very usefully together with the 1st Commission, and I thank you for the great attention that has been given to the sector that I would like to talk to you about at the moment. However, before I go into the matter, I would like to make a point, because perhaps talking about the stabilisation of the precariousness means using terms that can create misunderstandings, and perhaps it would be better to avoid it. It is not a question of stabilising the precariousness, a term that simply evokes the transition to addiction without respect for certain rules: it is the overcoming of contractual forms concerning staff that has been included in the public administration in order to respond to structural needs (it is true that three years out of five are spoken of) and not transitional of the public administration, in compliance with a whole series of constraints, from those of budget to those related to the constitutional dictation in the matter of public competition, to those related to the needs of staff of every reality. These are constraints that we all believe must be fully respected, precisely in order to avoid the drift that no one wants, which could instead be evoked by the use of the word stabilisation. What the measure rightly proposes to do is to prevent precarious forms of work from continuing structurally to provide services of great importance to the whole public administration, and in particular to certain sectors: for example, what I would like to focus on is health care. This sector, in fact, has its own peculiarity for the type of services it provides, for the importance it has of good health for all of us. It is therefore particularly important that such widespread forms of precariousness be overcome, as far as possible, in the first place in the interests of the citizens who expect services, especially in particularly sensitive areas. We know very well that in some regions there are resuscitation departments that work only thanks to professional staff who are hired in a precarious, unstable way, and which is replaced every three, six or eight months, depending on the possibilities that the health company has. Of course, it is allowed to take on fixed-term employment or acquire it from outside, because it is a question of responding to essential benefits, to essential levels of benefits that are protected by the Constitution. However, the operation of such important sectors of public administration through staff that is not structured in the service, and therefore that cannot be proceeded with the updating, involvement and motivation necessary, can only be deleterious from the point of view of the citizens who receive the service. It is also important to avoid forms of precariousness so widespread even for a second reason. These are forms of work which leave the worker in a position of economic uncertainty and insecurity for too long, when we could actually give him more guarantee of economic security. We have a huge amount of staff in the health sector, because it is a labour-intensive sector. Almost 700,000 people depend on the Health Service and 5.5-6 percent are precarious. However, this figure becomes much higher in some regions (it doubles and triples), because there are regions that have great difficulty in respecting budgetary constraints even for programming weaknesses that we do not hide and that historically have created situations of great difficulty. We must therefore try to overcome such a widespread presence of precarious staff with roles that structurally must be covered. I also point out that resorting to precarious staff does not save money; indeed, at best it makes spending exactly as much as you would spend having structured staff. Most of the time it costs more, because, besides having precarious staff, very often, as it is acquired through various forms of mediation, it adds to this the cost of mediation. If it does not cost more, it is because, unfortunately, employment contracts for this staff are not respected, and it is even more serious that this is tolerated within the public administration. Therefore, addressing the problem of precariousness is important, and addressing it in such a way that hopefully resolves, I do not say structurally (as it is written in the report), but in a way that approaches structural, it is absolutely fundamental. For this reason, we have considered some possible amending guidelines, in particular bearing in mind that in the health sector, especially in the most difficult regions, the use of precarious work is due to the incoherence, which is now clear to all, of budgetary constraints on individual items of expenditure, which, on the whole, produce undesirable or even perverse effects. There are in fact constraints on spending on staff much more stringent than there are on spending on the acquisition of services or work from outside. This implies that, in the presence of constraints of expenditure on staff, one renounces to structure an important service, through competitions and notices, and one acquires from the outside the staff, with all that this can entail (i.e. the non-excession of a competition and the often discretionary use of recruitments). One last point on which I would like to draw your attention is the following. We believe that there is also a need for a generational shift within the health sector: where possible, at invariance of expenditure, this should be encouraged, especially for the health professions, which are the ones most severely affected by longer working lives. I think, for example, of the whole nursing world, which takes turns: generational replacement is very useful. We have made a proposal, on which we are working, which could be implemented at the same level of expenditure and with due regard for budgetary constraints. We believe that we can improve on these issues, also in the direction of ensuring the protection of citizens' health. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u21	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u22	Mr President, I would also like to draw attention to a number of aspects, and I hope to do so, because so far it has been rather difficult. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the comments made by the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, and to the remarks made by the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Senator Finocchiaro. We are faced with a decree-law that, due to the variety and complexity of matter, puts a real strain on it, because it is a matter of going to regulate and regulate aspects of the country's life even important and we are faced with a fragmented situation and difficult to rebuild. In order to illustrate this way of proceeding and to give you an example of how badly I think it is done by doing our work in this way, I would like to consider Article 9. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Mussini. Colleagues, I ask you kindly to lower your voice. Please continue your intervention, Senator. MUSSINI (M5S). Article 9 concerns teaching in Italian schools abroad. I would like to remind this House that at the beginning of the parliamentary term, with the opposing vote of the 5 Star Movement, a Committee was set up for the issues of Italians abroad, and I recall the speeches that have been made in this House: all speeches that rightly exalted, correctly valued and highlighted the importance of the development of teaching, the promotion of culture and the Italian language abroad. (Brusio). Evidently, not everyone appreciates it. In any case, we have received a particularly strong interest in this issue in this House. This Committee had to deal with these issues, and it began to work. We do not agree, but we have participated, as is our custom, in his work. A survey of the teaching and promotion of Italian language and culture abroad has already begun, together with the 7th Commission, and we are now faced with an article that introduces totally innovative criteria, because they are going to modify the text on the school, so the basic text that also regulates teaching, in particular for curricula. In the meantime, there is a question of method. A Committee has been set up, we have a third Commission which deals with interfacing with the Dicastery at which this type of service that Italy offers abroad is based, yet there is an article that operates and produces these changes. Then I wonder what we are doing and what is the way to find a unity of intent and to be able to achieve the necessary reforms, given that there is a Dicastery that goes on one side and a Parliament that, sleepy and careless, votes for activities that are emptied of their meaning. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] With regard to the merits of this article, it is stipulated that teachers may be recruited under local contract which, according to the Single text on the school, are sent from Italy. Obviously there are some reasons why teachers are sent from Italy, and they are related to the fact that an Italian curriculum does not simply mean that we speak in some way Italian: it means that in those eight Italian state schools that we have abroad we want to bring a certain type of profile, a certain type of curriculum, a certain way of understanding the study and method, a certain way of putting together the subjects, as well as teaching them and working on them. It is clear that this is not only related to the fact that we know a few words in Italian, but is linked to an experience: so let us keep the value of what we have established over the years. The proposed article allows the recruitment of staff with local contract, foreign or Italian staff, resident for at least one year. Already this is strange, because it does not allow our young graduates, young precarious people, young teachers who wanted to have an experience abroad to do it. This article does not specify the criteria for the knowledge of the Italian language in order to be able to teach, where a foreigner teaches, and it is not even strictly specified what qualifications these teachers should have on the spot. This could also be interesting and be seen as a first step towards reform of the sector. But I want to point out to you the figures that emerge from the report: for these schools we will have a saving of about EUR 2.5 million. Against this, the teachers for whom we will save 2 and a half million euros, hired with local contract, however will cost us one million and 152,000 euros. This means that the actual savings we get is €1,307,000. I don't want to make demagogy, but I want you to keep in mind that the 5 Star Movement, when a few months ago it returned that part of salary and refunds as it was committed to do, returned more than what we with this article would save for a year of teaching in those schools. [[Applause from Senator Martelli.]] One last fact: after all the speeches we have made to promote Italian language and culture, we note that from 2008 to 2012 on schools abroad was cut by 81 percent, for cultural promotion it was cut by 89.6 percent. So I say, "Which product?" [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u24	Madam President, I am speaking on the agenda for the G102 which I have presented, which calls on the Government to set up, without any new and increased burden on public finances, a coordination service for monitoring systems for the environmental conditions and health conditions of populations in contaminated sites of national interest. The so-called SIN sites, as you know, represent very extensive contaminated areas, in which soil, subsoil and surface and groundwater present such extensive and serious pollution as to constitute a serious danger to public health. These sites can be identified in relation to the characteristics of the site, the quantity and dangerousness of the pollutants present, the importance of the impact on the surrounding environment in terms of health and ecological risk, and of prejudice to cultural and environmental goods. In the 12th Commission we started a survey of environmental pollution and the incidence of cancers in polluted sites, so we hope that this survey will lead to medium and long-term planning to reduce the impact of so-called environmental compensation and the production of waste and waste to be disposed of. This, also in relation to Article 12 of the decree in question, which regulates the construction and management of landfills for special hazardous and non-dangerous waste, located in the perimeter of the production plant of Ilva in Taranto. What happened in the area of Taranto Ilva would not want it to happen in the area of other sites. That is why we recommend that the government set up this coordination of monitoring systems, because it is no longer tolerable for people's health to be reduced in such a serious way, given the large incidence of cancer in these areas. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u25	Senator Mauro Giovanni is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u26	Madam President, the measure we were considering was expected from several quarters. We are dealing with many aspects that relate on the one hand to the modernisation of our public structure, on the other to the problem of the containment of expenditure which is linked to the maintenance of our public structure, in the end - and I say in the end in the sense of hope - of a path that has led us over the years increasingly to multiply the elements that have increased expenditure in the public sector. How many sanatories in these years? How much have we burdened the structure of the State with private contracts that have then taken the form of advertising and have determined in the budgets of our local authorities and the peripheral structures of the State considerably increased? So what we imagine as a Parliament and as a Government of our time is something that allows us to say enough of this way of proceeding. We would no longer like to be faced with sanatories or to cover precarious situations created in public administrations. This measure refers to many needs, and I must say that we have tried to give you answers which we hope will meet not only with the support of this House when the final text is adopted, but also with the people and categories to which we have tried to meet. We were lucky enough to work in an atmosphere of great collaboration between the Commission and the Government: President Finocchiaro must be acknowledged that he has been able to find important mediations in the final drafting of the text; the rapporteur Pagliari has been very patient on issues often controversial and the Government has proved willing to listen and accept the changes deemed necessary. The Group of Independents and Freedoms welcomes the many changes made to the text in areas considered crucial and which provide an opportunity to intervene on the principles underlying the measure. We wanted to focus our attention mainly on Articles 2 and 10. Article 2 addresses the issue of local self-government. Well, I take this opportunity to tell the government that on the issue of local autonomy we must find a way back. At this moment throughout the national territory there are dramatic situations of absolute lack of services in very sensitive areas of social life. I am referring, for example, to the transport of children with disabilities in schools, which is the responsibility of the Provinces, which do not know if they still exist, who are Commissioners, but whose competences, at this stage of institutional limbo, are maintained, even if they are completely deprived of the finances necessary to support them. The government - and I hope that Minister Delrio will be able to answer this tomorrow - cannot fail to provide a clear and unequivocal direction, because this leads to a phase of uncertainty and very considerable disservices for the community. We have therefore allowed ourselves to improve the text and we are pleased to have obtained the Commission's vote in favour and the support of the Government, because we have tried to provide these administrations with tools to continue living until someone decides to make them die permanently or resurrect them in a new role. This stage of uncertainty doesn't benefit, it doesn't reward and it also costs. We live in the paradox that for months, perhaps years, we have filled our mouths with the need to cut the Provinces in order to save spending. Well, the Provinces cost exactly what they were before and are not in a position to provide the services they previously provided. The cost, in doing so, of how much has been multiplied? What is the strategy in this area? The other aspect that we have considered to be absolutely crucial is the new strategies in the area of cohesion policies. Cohesion policies are absolutely important, not only because of territorial disparities but because, in the distribution of tasks and delegations within the Government, they are concerned with the famous Community funds: they are concerned with what really constitutes national shame. In fact, at a time of recession and very little resources available for the development and infrastructure of the country, at a time when there is really a need to provide liquidity in the country system to restore oxygen even to small and medium-sized business activities, to think that there can be even one euro that is not used and is lost and returned to the European Union due to inability to spend is something that generates scandal. If, instead of a single euro, we are talking about EUR 31 billion, the scandal must be multiplied by the same number of times. Therefore, the acceleration of expenditure: by 31 December 2015 we will have to report these sums, and in the face of such urgency, of a real, palpable emergency, we are faced with a demanding proposal, which we as a Group have finally convinced ourselves to accept, but with all the reservations and changes that we hope can still be made. In fact, at such a delicate moment, when we have to go and "heel" everything that is possible not to return a single euro, we set up a new Agency for Territorial Cohesion. Well, on this point, which is governed by Article 10 of the text under consideration, with regard to the establishment of a new Agency for Territorial Cohesion - as I say here - we wanted to trust Minister Trigilia and the whole Government, who presented this measure. We are trusting ourselves not being in the least convinced that this can be the solution to the problems, and this is because at the moment when we believe that we should cut and reduce the already too many authorities present, bodies and mechanisms, that over the years we have managed to achieve in such a large number from our point of view, that we are against the bureaucracy that kills, against the too many steps that slow down the ability to arrive at the functionality of the structures themselves, I repeat, when in this framework in which the agencies should be reduced a new agency is proposed, we are really scared. We wanted to trust the government that told us that, by concentrating the said agency powers and assuming on itself the power also to commissioner the Regions that may not be fulfilling, we will be able to save time. Well, what should I tell you? On this subject, too, we have allowed ourselves to table amendments, some of which have been accepted, others have not, so as not to disperse, on the eve of such important appointments, the professionalism that these ministries have created over the years. I would like to recall the years 2005-2006, when the policy for territorial cohesion was a policy that was exercised with moral suasion, when the State and the Regions talked to each other and found a solution to the problems. How many times the Ministry suggested to the officials of the Regions what was the best system to accelerate the expenditure, such as the acts to be adopted in order not to risk losing resources, in a spirit of loyal collaboration between bodies of the State, between different levels, but all forming part of the state organizational structure! The principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions must always be protected. I was lucky enough to live the moments when Deputy Minister Miccichè met the Presidents of the Regions and with them the measures to be taken were being concerted. Today we seem to want to put the Agency against the Presidents of the Regions, who will only be able to warn of political mortification: where are the other instruments? In addition, a state that wants to be rigorous must first of all be rigorous with itself. Because if it is true that the Regional Operational Plans (ROPs) are late in spending, I wonder where the National Operational Plans (NOPs) of the individual Ministries are. Has Minister Trigilia been able to tell us in the Commission that the Ministries are in place as regards European co-financing and therefore it is claimed that the Regions are in line with the same sign of virtue as the structures of the State? No, I'm afraid that's not the case. It seems, therefore, that we want to teach others what we cannot guarantee and realize in our home. We did not want to accept some amendments, such as the one in which we suggested not to use the High School of Public Administration to identify those who would become members of the Agency for Territorial Cohesion, which was based on a statistical data that shows that the High School takes two years to carry out a competition. This measure is presented as an absolute matter of urgency: while the Minister presents it to us as a solution that must be immediate, we propose instruments and a path that only for the selection procedure takes two years. I am very much concerned about the Agency, which risks being another cost centre: on this subject I express my only concern about the measure under consideration, which I believe is really important and which goes in the direction of the effort that Minister D'Alia has always wanted to show and implement with concrete facts, towards modernising our bureaucratic structures. In fact, the Minister wants to make an effort to achieve a really unnecessary cut in expenses, but always to give modernity to the public administration, which must be seen as a friend and not as a leech of the productive body of our country. More and more often we talk about the bureaucratic structure as a structure that slows down the processes of formation of the economic offer and we speak also with repulse of the public administration, for the length of time in the issue of the simplest certifications. Well, the effort of the Minister and the Dicastery is important, we appreciate it and support it, not only with regard to the measure under consideration, but to all those who want to pay attention to us, because we consider it really useful for our country. We would never want to die of bureaucracy and we would not want a single company or a single housewife in our country to lose hours in order to solve the simplest problems and what in the rest of the modern and industrialized countries is solved online from home: in fact, I think that digitalization can be useful. So we support this measure and all the measures that can support these aims. I will speak later on in the explanation of the individual amendments, in the hope of recovering to the interest and the vote of this House what I believe was mistakenly not approved in the Commission. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara Mario]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u27	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u28	Madam President, this is a very special day. I can think of a comedy by Ionesco, it seems to me that it was called "The bald singer": it starts with scenes where what appears most evident is how one can communicate not communicating and how everything and the opposite of everything can happen in a few hours and in a few days, from tragedy to farce. Having said that, unfortunately, we have faced the tragedy in this measure: a measure that tries to address some issues that are certainly urgent, even if not so much as to require a decree-law, but now an emergency measure has been taken. In this respect, I propose that the constitutional changes before us should intervene in redefining what is urgent and indifferent, because we must try to have rules that correspond, in substance, to the events that we want to produce. In fact, if we continue to use words incorrectly (the words written like the words spoken), we are in Ionesco, that is to say the theater of absurdity, the communication of incommunicability. In this provision, I want to talk about two issues first. The first concerns the Cohesion Agency. This is a rather strange method of commissioning the decision-making power of regional administrations and the power of local government to participate. I am not convinced that this will be the right way to spend the Structural Funds quickly. I think that the difficulties are of a procedural nature and they lie in Community planning and in how it takes place, so separated from reality, years before the 60th reference period, unable to update quickly to the needs that arise; therefore this will not be a solution. In addition, it is a cost, a classic cost, because it constitutes a structure of two hundred units, at the highest level, that is not understood if they work in the same place or in separate locations. It is not clear how the interventions should be perfectly coordinated, while the quantification of the burdens, which are borne by the State, remains doubtful. The second question concerns companies with participation and public control, many of which are located in the local government to give an answer to the so-called LSU, i.e. workers who were in the fund of integration and who have been recovered through works that are socially useful to a productive activity or in any case service and guaranteed with an income, a pay from work, and who have then been partly stabilised in the public administrations (the luckiest, who will not be affected by this measure) and partly in the controlled and participated companies established locally. Then, we cannot take the people who are in a state of discomfort, as were those workers, who are a product of the private production system, who have been expelled from the private production system and assisted in the integration fund for years; then, at an advanced age, we place them in the public administration (the lucky ones, who continue to be lucky, because they have been able to continue their service activity) and another part in these societies that now drive them back on the street. We have to ask ourselves the problem that people are not postal packages, they are not things we can freely dispose of: they are flesh, blood, feelings, families, social relations. There is no way that there is never an investigation - I say a decent one - in this respect. These issues, but also others that are dealt with in this decree, required a different reflection: for this reason there are the draft law of initiative of the Government. Therefore, do not continue to launch anathemas on ways that violate the Constitution and then inevitably continue to use them. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators, Mr Campanella and Mr Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u29	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u30	Madam President, Minister, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I am a little bit embarrassed to have to speak today in this House, half empty, after the morning we have lived. I wonder what is the point of discussing now a measure which should present the characteristics of the extraordinary necessity and urgency, bringing measures of considerable social impact, in a somewhat surreal context such as what we are experiencing. I wonder what the majority that is now going to carry out this decree, a majority that, if it is in fact in the numbers, has changed in its composition and is certainly not the same one that was present in the Commission. Another reason for embarrassment is, in fact, the lack of the opinion of the Budget Commission on the whole of the measure, which raises doubts and is genuinely critical, not only in the parts included in the Commission - and I would like to stress this - of a very careful and certainly very serious examination of the substance, bearing witness also to the commitment of the Presidency, the rapporteur and all the Members of the Commission who have paid much attention to the measure - but also in the original parts of the text, and therefore not only with regard to the rules which we will then examine and which have been amended. So the feeling of embarrassment is very strong. I would also like to point out, as has also been pointed out by many of my previous colleagues, that this measure - a decree-law which, precisely, should contain measures of an extraordinary and urgent nature - has become almost a sort of omnibus decree, bringing measures ranging from public employment to stabilisation, mobility procedures, access to the public sector and the regulation of competitions, up to the point of reaching environmental and energy measures, as well as to the very delicate issue of the Taranto Ilva commissionership, with particular consequences in relation to which my Group will then reserve the right to intervene better in detail when it comes to the explanation of vote, also with reference to all the situations that have arisen in the factories of the related companies (I refer, in particular, to the case Riva Acciaio, with the enormous and tragic concern for 1,500 employees, who had no more certainty of what would have happened in their work). However, as I have already said, we will come back to this in detail, more calmly, in the explanation of vote. I would also like to refer to the rules on the traceability of waste and to the cutting, for example, of advice and service cars: common sense measures which in the measure have a logic, but which in reality, as a whole, involve, once again, an increase of public expenditure, an increase of that great structure of the public apparatus that is present in our country. Once again, instead of dealing with the problem in an organic, precise, detailed, serious and more incisive manner, a simple patchwork is being carried out, where there is some pressing demand, for example, from the world of precarious workers in various sectors of the public sector. My political side has nothing against categories of workers employed with term contracts - there would be no need - winners perhaps already for many years, with legitimate titles, of public competitions, which nevertheless have no prospects of a stability of employment, but it is not so, colleagues, that the problems of the country are solved, it is not so that we tackle in an organic way the main problem of this country, that is the weight of the public, a sector that weighs elephantically on the private and that is suffocating it [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Campanella),]] to the detriment of that productive world made up of businesses, small, medium and large, and of a productive fabric that is suffering, that does not make it any more, that is suffocated by a fiscal weight that has no precedent. I would like to mention some data that give the feeling of reality: EUR 2,069 billion by 2013, in addition to the 2,128 expected in 2014 that will become at least 2.148 in 2015. What data are these, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of which it pales? These are the values of our public debt. It is not a matter of day that broadcasters, various statistical analyses, studies of large economic minds do not remind us of how much this hugeness amounts, and much of the public debt, the weight of the public, is determined by the excessive cost of the machine, the structure and the administration, of the central apparatuses of this State. The causes that fuel this enormousness are those that my movement has always denounced: bureaucratic slowness, personalistic and political interests that for a long time led to a bad management of public resources. Always the same battles that the North League since it was born denounced, but against which little has been done, not to say almost anything. I realize that the Minister in charge, who has shown in recent days in the examination of the measure in the Commission that he is aware of the matter and that he has gone into the in-depth study of the various sectors of the public sector, has a really huge undertaking to face, but we cannot fail to show our opposition both to the substance with which these measures are addressed, and to the method. We can only see that the rationalization of public expenditure, which is also the title of the measure, is not actually achieved. We would therefore like to make everyone aware of the dramatic situation we are going through. Not enough is the astronomical figure relative to the debt that our country has towards third parties that I have just remembered: there are other data that explain well the unsustainability of the weight of the public in Italy. Net of interest on debt, at the end of this financial year Italy will spend as much as 673 billion euros on current expenditure. But it will be worse next year, when this value will reach 681 billion euros, reaching, as anticipated, a real peak in 2015. Consider that we are referring only to current expenditure. It is paradoxical, in fact, to note that while citizens are forced to bear a tax burden that is no longer tolerable (it is no coincidence that even for this aspect Italy unfortunately covers the first negative positions at European level), the expenditure to maintain public administration continues to rise inexorably. By now the government is always and only where it can fish: that is, increases taxes for businesses and citizens, always happens to be a very precise part of the country, that of the productive economic system, that runs out, resists and is still to drive the rest of the country, and draws from the local authorities, that have always and only undergone horizontal cuts, linear cuts. The local government sector, which includes Regions, Provinces and Municipalities, has already given. Even with the spending review measures taken by the Monti-led government, local authorities have paid a very high and very high price and cannot support the further cuts proposed. We have contributed to this measure in order to limit the damage at least for small municipalities, pointing out that the logic of linear cuts cannot work, for example, for the absorption of elementary services, in addition to the essential ones to which the small Municipalities carry out. It would be appropriate, for example, for those who have already paid so much in terms of cuts to be guaranteed at least one service car, not only for the performance of social welfare, health care, public order and security services, but also for technical and administrative services. Perhaps those who make these rules do not realize the reality of the facts in small municipalities, where the staff is already reduced to the bone and how the problems are dealt with materially and the services are provided. Very often there are few officials who have to carry out more services and do not even have a car available, while the waste of blue cars, numerous and never really cut in other parts of the country - as the statistical data also of the Accounting - are never solved. Horizontal cuts, debt limitation and the Stability Pact - which would be better called instability and on which we have not even heard any pronunciation from Prime Minister Letta today - are putting on the financial abyss all the local administrations, even the virtuous ones that are located in the North, and those, instead, of the South, where the waste and inefficiencies unfortunately continue to register to the detriment of the citizens themselves are never addressed. I would like to remind you that if fiscal federalism had really been brought into its full implementation and, in particular, the standard cost criterion which would have replaced the traditional criterion of historical spending, already more than EUR 20 billion would have been saved, resources that would have been immediately available and would have made it possible to lighten taxation and the tax wedge on businesses and citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u31	Senator, please conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u32	Bisinella (LN-Aut). I shall conclude, Mr President. A historic expenditure, ladies and gentlemen, which has created those EUR 2.069 billion of public debt that, I would like to remind you, the country will leave to our citizens and also to those who will come in the future. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Campanella and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u35	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, I withdraw amendment 8.0.100 (text 2), which concerns the Italian Red Cross, because I asked for further details on the text of the decree to clarify its effects to the full, as a debate has developed which needs to be addressed without the pressure of the amendment tabled. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u38	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, allow me to make a small complaint. My Group has a short time to speak, and in this general debate it is speaking with Mr Bisinella alone. I have great esteem for Mrs De Camillis - we know her - but the fact that the Minister, precisely when the only representative of an opposition group comes in - which was also very generous in congratulations to the Minister for the knowledge of the matter - gets up and leaves is a sign that this Government is the one that is proving itself. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bulgarelli.]] I'm very sorry about this, because a minimum of respect for the opposition is also there or you don't.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u39	We'll report back to the minister, who's gone.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u40	Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u41	Madam President, I would just like to propose a few additional comments on this measure, compared to those already proposed very precisely by my colleague Mr Lanzillotta, whom I entirely agree with. A first general consideration concerns the serious lack of clarity in the legislative text. It is a literally illegible text. It is not only incomprehensible to the millions and millions of citizens who have to apply it, but it is also illegible to those who work, to experts in labour law and administrative law. It is illegible for ourselves legislators that we are discussing it. To give an example, I can only read you a paragraph taken at random: The orders and the professional colleges are excluded from the application of article 2, paragraph 1, of the decree-law 6 July 2012, n. 95, converted, with modifications, from the law 7 August 2012, n. 135. For the purposes of recruitment, the article 1, paragraph 505, penultimate period of the law of 27 December 2006, n. 296. I believe that there is not one person in this House who is able to tell us what this paragraph means at the moment. [[Applause from Senator Zin's M5Se Group]] We must bear in mind the problem that officials in the European Union consider it unnecessary to translate our legislative texts, because, even if they are translated, they are not able to understand the meaning of them at all. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] This poses a major political problem. If the legislative text is not even the same legislator who approves it, but they are only a few priests of the sacred mysteries, it means that, in reality, the legislative power is exercised by them. The problem is that those priests of the sacred mysteries do not respond to their choices in front of the country. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] That is why the European Union, with the 2009 Decalogue for Smart Regulation, warns us to legislate in an instantly understandable way for all those to whom the standard is intended. It is - in my view - a basic principle of democracy. We must stop using a mystery language for initiates, which on the contrary is now the only language of our legislation and, in particular, that of work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Only one example in this regard of how the laws could and should be written: the so-called Workers' Statute of 1970 is exactly the opposite of the legislative language that is now dominant in the laws that we produce. That text, which in forty articles defined practically all the new labour law - for good or bad, I do not dispute the merit - was released in millions of copies, throughout Italy, by trade unions and business associations. In three months each citizen concerned knew exactly what was the discipline of illness, dismissal, transfer or trade union representatives. Let us assume that this text is distributed in millions of copies, which we are called to examine today, and ask ourselves how many Italians, in three months' time, will be able to say what it contains. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] Here I ask the Government, to whom we have renewed this morning's confidence - and I am pleased to have renewed it - to make a new effort to formulate legislative texts. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] ; a commitment that this same Government has made in the field of work with the plan "Destination Italy" for a reformulation of the legislation of the work with the simplified code. I welcome this commitment with great satisfaction, but it must soon be translated into concrete action. A committee should immediately be put to work in order to achieve this very important policy point. I now come to the substance of the measure, of course only for the part of my specific competence, i.e. the part of the work interest. I would like to propose only this remark to my colleagues: we risk - it is a risk that we must absolutely avoid - with this decree to feed completely unfounded employment expectations in tens of thousands of young people. I say this because, to all want to grant, respecting the stakes that the law decree in question rightly puts, we will see in the next few years absorb from the public administrations about 10,000 or 12,000 workers currently employed as precarious or placed in position of "suitable" in a ranking of competition. However, with these rules with which we extend those forward contracts or the validity of rankings covering tens and tens of thousands (in fact a couple of hundreds of thousands) of interested parties, we send them the message that there is no hope of stable employment for them except in public administrations; that is to say, we encourage tens of thousands of fit to put all their cards on an occupation that cannot come for at least nine out of ten of them, from public administrations. That is why I have tabled Amendment 3.0.301 with some of my colleagues from Citizen Choice and the Democratic Party, to which we attach great importance: it aims to outline at least the correct alternative to this promise that public administrations will not be able to keep. What is the promise that we believe can and should be made, and then maintained? The promise is based on this fact: in Italy in 2012 (year of black crisis) 10 million employment contracts were concluded, largely in term, sometimes repeated 20 times with the same person; however, 1.7 million of them were contracts for an indefinite period; and this is a fact that is repeated in all previous years, even years of crisis. If that is the case, why do we promise some ten thousand precarious workers in public administrations a place in those administrations, directing them in the wrong direction, when instead we could and should promise them and make possible, with the necessary assistance, the way to enter the flow of assumptions that in the real productive fabric there are (are not an illusion)? These are real, concrete, current jobs. Of course, with a small detail: in that flow of recruitment can not enter today in Italy except those who have a parental, professional, friendly network that allows them to access it. We must therefore create access channels. Amendment 3.0.301 aims to activate the effective channel with that relocation contract that corresponds exactly in its structure to the Youth Guarantee project outlined by the European Union; it allows us to transform passive labour policies, the mere support of income, into active labour policies, namely intensive and targeted assistance to the jobs that actually exist, to the tens of thousands of places that remain permanently discovered in our productive fabric due to the lack of suitable skilled labour. We propose not only to activate this channel, but also to activate this channel! We encourage the administrations, the companies involved, to offer the surplus staff not illusions, but the perspective and also the culture of real integration into the productive fabric! [[Applause from the SCPI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u42	Minister D'Alia is keen to respond to the North League observation. I therefore inform the whole House that it had to go away to the House to vote on trust, so it was not a deliberate act. He asked me to inform you, and I did. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u43	Madam President, Madam Undersecretary De Camillis, Senator Pagliari, this measure contains some provisions to try to deal with the problem of precariousness in public administrations. In particular, I refer to Article 4 (6) where it is expected that public administrations will be able to ban competitions, with 50% reserved share, for those staff who have benefited from fixed-term contracts for more than thirty-six months. It's a worthy initiative - for Christ's sake! - but there is a but: there is a great absentee from this article and from the provision everything, an area that should be strategic for the country, that of the school. Undersecretary De Camillis, Senator Pagliari, you cannot but know that the problem of historical precariousness, teachers and ATA staff who have temporary contracts for more than thirty-six months is an open wound in the school sector, which generates many appeals. It is not only not dealt with by this decree-law, but is even worse. To explain myself, I make a brief historical excursion. Legislative Decree no. 368 of 6 September 2001 establishes a fundamental principle: that for which the permanent employment contract must be the standard in all sectors, while the fixed-term contract must be paid only under very special conditions. When this is not the case, when there is an abuse (where abuse means the case in which the temporary contract is repeated for more than thirty-six months), it is expected that the employer will be punished (in this case, the transformation of the permanent contract). Subsequently, Legislative Decree No 165 of 30 March 2001 established that for the public sector, in fact, this "punishment" consists not so much in the fixed-term transformation, but in the imposition of a sanction. Well, there is an exclusion in Legislative Decree no. 368 of 2001 which concerns the staff of the school and the teachers of the ATA staff. Why is there this exclusion? Because we want to give the State the opportunity to hire precarious teachers as alternates, without incurring this penalty mechanism. Thus, in fact, fixed-term contracts are encouraged. This applies to cover both vacant posts (those, to understand us, which are given for a long illness or maternity of the holder), and those vacant and available (i.e. those made free for pensions, in which teachers are hired and fired, hired and fired, hired and fired continuously, mortifying their professionalism). This whole situation is further aggravated by the fact that there is a Community directive - Directive 1999/70/EC - which states that Member States have a duty not to abuse fixed-term contracts. This has led to many appeals - you know this too - that teachers are beginning to win and that cause erarial damage to the state. Well, in view of this situation, this decree-law does not address the problem in any way. This is an absence I would say mortifying, because it fails, not only to a real problem of the school workers, but also to precise commitments of the government. In fact, I remind you that the Government itself, accepting an agenda of the 5 Star Movement Group during the discussion of the law of European delegation, has undertaken to find solutions for this dispute that - I remember - sees an open infringement procedure and an act of putting in default for Italy. Not only, therefore, the damage caused by the appeals and reparations that we owe to the teachers who are appealing against the State, but also the fine that we will have to pay and that still weighs on the public budget. But then, Undersecretary De Camillis, why not deal with this in this decree-law? Why this absence to regularize this position of the school world? If you wanted to meet the school's historical precariousness, you would find our support. There are already some amendments to Article 4, signed by our Group, which are in the right direction. I urge you, once again, to consider them and, together with us and all our colleagues in this House, finally to give answers to the precarious staff of the school, which is so mortified by the fact that they are excluded from a rule that applies to all the rest of the public administration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caridi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few hours away from major political events, it is inevitable that we should treat the measure that we are about to adopt in a calm manner. Yet I believe there is a close link between the attempt to rationalise public administration and the crisis of the economy and families. I want to say with clarity and determination that many times there is a ruling class operating in public administration constantly prone to delays, inefficiencies and waste. They are the famous technicians who are raging in the various offices of which the state is composed; they are the superpaid managers for hundreds of thousands of euros, who should implement the guidelines coming from politics, but in reality they themselves make politics. They operate in complete solitude in the Ministries, Regions and local authorities. The superburocrats have become a funnel for our democracy and often hide behind offices made of acronyms, in exhausting and useless daily meetings, while the service offered to citizens and businesses has become of very poor quality. The political class is too often unfairly accused of delays, negligence and not adequately responding to requests from citizens. But it is right to reiterate in this House, with the greatest intellectual honesty, that there is a public administration today in Italy that slows down social and cultural activities, hinders economic development and discourages the individual from dealing with the public sector. It is therefore necessary to act with strong determination to fight an unhealthy bureaucracy and for a large part responsible for the crisis that the country lives. The task of revising the bureaucratic machinery must be incisive and courageous; it must aim to reduce excessive public expenditure by promoting the generational shift that the public sector needs in order to modernise and make efficient. An important issue, to be addressed with due deepening and without prejudice, concerns the sector of the participating companies and public bodies that make up the so-called parastat, where we must intervene by eliminating waste and enhancing the many professional resources present, after having started a careful overall review of the competences and functions to be entrusted to new, modern and streamlined institutional bodies, which must necessarily start from the regions and local authorities. In this respect and in relation to certain specific articles, I have tabled a number of amendments which have been put to the attention of this House. However, the weight of the reorganization cannot and must not fall on the workers and the latent precarious but now stable and imprisoned at times of unjust forms of discrimination. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that, starting from the positive actions provided for in the decree and on the basis of the confidence granted this morning to the Government, there is the need to serenely plan further and decisive interventions to substantially review a sector, that of the public employment, which today expresses some points of excellence, but also too many criticalities that very negatively affect the possibility of relaunching the economic and social fabric of Italy for which we all work, from today with renewed commitment. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u46	Senator Gatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u47	Madam President, I would like to start with a figure that was given to us yesterday: 40.1% of young people in our country are unemployed. I think that this measure, together with those on work and culture, and that on the school that is currently under discussion in the House and that will soon arrive in the Senate, intervenes in a situation characterized by a very large number of precarious workers, but above all by a number of young people who do not work and a very high percentage and who continues to increase young people who neither work nor are in training. Compared to such people, most likely there is a need for public intervention, and our apparatus, weighed down, sifted in many cases, sometimes not put in the opportunity to work decently, should intervene in order to be able to accompany, even with active labour policies, these boys to find a job. This measure - and I would like to turn off a little enthusiasm - is indeed very limited in scope and will be able to achieve stabilisations for precarious staff but in very low percentage. There is the possibility that the administrations indicate competitions, but only for administrations that have resources and places in organic plan available and this condition is not in the availability of many administrations. Therefore, no triumphalisms, we do not encourage out-of-place enthusiasms, but we also face this measure with the awareness that with the resources given perhaps, on the one hand, we can help to reduce the precariousness in our labour market, as far as public employment is concerned, and, on the other, perhaps we can activate forms of rejuvenation and increased productivity of our public administration. I will speak essentially on the work issues dealt with by the measure and the articles to which I will refer are 2, 3 and 4, then 7 - which I think is of some value - and finally 10. As far as Article 2 is concerned, it covers the whole part of the attempt to rejuvenate the public administration, establishing that, if there are surpluses, the rules on retirement prior to the Fornero reform apply to surplus staff: this, until 31 December 2015. We have also spoken in the Commission to extend this period and we have moved the period to 31 December 2016. This was a significant amendment because it must be taken into account, for example, that in safeguards the public service does not benefit from paragraph 15-a of Article 24 of the Fornero law. Always amending, we have included the possibility of the protection of the exempted, which is already foreseen in the public employment, also for the regions, the local health companies and the instrumental bodies. So there's a goal, some kind of aging, using early retirement. Article 3 speaks of the internal and external mobility of staff and there is an attempt to recover the employment needs of judicial offices by using the mobility of staff at the request of the person concerned. In this respect there is a whole history of mobility in the public administration which finds a number of difficulties to be achieved and perhaps should be followed better. The other point on which action is taken concerns the participating companies. At the given situation, it is true that there is difficulty in understanding how many people are involved; there is an attempt to understand it by establishing a sort of observatory to be able to identify these numbers. But the point is that at the moment we have to give the administrations tools to deal with a very important problem. If we then identify redundancies in these situations, this decree gives the possibility to use the mobility tool with one shareholder that can absorb excess employees in the other. I refer, for example, to everything that will happen - and that has already happened with the start of the TARES - to all participating companies that deal with waste collection and that also had the billing, payment service and so on: by the end of 2013 they will no longer be able to do so. This staff can be transferred, with the consent of the worker (a change that we have introduced in the text), for example to the participant who deals with the payments that the administrations usually have. As regards the part concerning the stabilisation of precarious and suitable workers, we have tabled an amendment which I consider reasonable. It is true that 50% of the posts are reserved for people with fixed-term contracts who have worked for three years in the last five years, but the point is that not all administrations can hold competitions. The Provinces, for example, are unable to do so because the rule stipulates that workers from the administrations who are banning the competition may participate. This constraint has been removed, and this is an essential element in allowing workers who have had such relations with the Provinces to participate in the competitions. I would like to add two more issues. A significant amendment seems to me to be the President. Senator Gatti, I invite you to conclude. GATTI (PD). Yes, Madam President, thank you. A significant amendment seems to me to be the one that gives the opportunity to participate in the competitions with a score that recognizes, whatever the type of contract with the administration, a service provided. Madam President, allow me to make one last remark. I believe that Article 7 of the measure, which revises the rule for compulsory recruitment of protected categories, is essential: administrations will no longer be able to justify the absence of recruitment of people with disabilities by saying that they have not defined the organic plant, because this will no longer be allowed to them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u48	The general debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, since the opinions of the Budget Committee have not yet been received, the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government will be delivered in the afternoon sitting tomorrow. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting. As the Conference of the Leaders is convened at 6 p.m., I will suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the meeting of the Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 5.56 p.m. and resumed at 18.51 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u49	The Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups meeting this evening approved the timetable for the work of the Assembly until 11 October. In the afternoon session of tomorrow the replies on the decree-law in the matter of public administration will be carried out. The agenda also includes the examination of the proposal to set up the Commission of Inquiry into intimidation of local administrators and the general discussion of the draft law on the demolition of abusive works. In the question time tomorrow afternoon, at 4 p.m., with direct television broadcast, the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government will answer questions on the coordination in financial matters between the State, Regions and local self-government and on initiatives in the field of sport. Next week, starting from the afternoon session on Tuesday, October 8th, will continue the examination of the decree-law in the matter of public administration. On Wednesday 9 October, the Update Note of the 2013 Economy and Finance Document will be discussed. At 9 a.m. in the afternoon sitting on Thursday 10 October, the President of the Council of Ministers will make a statement on the Italian Presidency of the European Union. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes each. The timetable also provides for the discussion of the decree-law on gender and security violence, which is currently being examined in the House of Deputies. In order to allow the adoption of the measure, due to expire on 15 October, we have scheduled for voting, if necessary, until Friday 11. Finally, I recall that the opening of the afternoon session on Tuesday 8 October will commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the Vajont disaster.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u52	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel the duty, in line with the education I use towards everyone, friends and opponents, as well as the cordial relations I have undertaken with many of you, especially my colleagues in the 10th Commission, to apologise to the President and to the House for what happened this morning. SOLLO (PD). Bravo! CASTALDI (M5S). The excess of passion and the clear conviction of being only a 5 Star spokesperson pushed me to climb four steps and address Senator De Pin with the following words: Where's your consistency? You shouldn't be here. Go home. No threat, even death, no appearance outside. Moreover, Senator De Pin has largely denied the threat - and I thank her for that - in the national press, as well as clarified directly with me as a result of my phone call. I see Mr De Cristofaro who, as Mr Morra has already told me, I am sure he can confirm what I am saying. I apologise once again, and I thank the Presidency for giving space to this clarification. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u53	Senator Castaldi, thank you. We will see whether to apply the general plea or attenuators, but I believe that this justification was absolutely necessary and necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u54	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-116.ana.u55	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday, October 3, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.55.
