ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. I would ask my fellow senators to hurry to withdraw the voting papers. (Follows the quorum check.) This is the first vote, so let's give it a little more. There are still some colleagues who have to vote: hurry, please. The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.38 a.m. and resumed at 9.58 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u8	FLORIS (PdL). Mr President, when a quorum was requested in this House, some senators were in the Commission. Personally, I was in the Defence Commission, in liaison with Strasbourg, and you were there too. I do not think it is right to endorse the request for the quorum to be checked when there are joint committees working, because during the connection with the European Parliament we should have left the Commission to come to this House. I think it is unkindness not to be reserved for such an important interlocutor. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups and Senator Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u9	Senator Floris, you are right and I am, as you mentioned, a witness, as a member of the Defence Commission. However, we have complied with the requirements of the Rules of Procedure and we have also waited, as the first vote. I would now like to proceed to the vote on the Minutes so that we do not extend our work any longer.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u12	MANDELLI (PdL). Mr President, I am speaking in support of what Senator Floris said: the 5th Commission was also meeting, and its members were certainly not around to have fun. It is only a problem of attention, even with respect to your - I address the 5 Star Movement - members of the Commissions, which are in our own condition.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u13	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u16	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would once again ask for the quorum to be checked. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u17	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u18	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u19	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure (at 10:03 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u20	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law Nos. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that tens of millions of human lives have historically been saved from scientific research and medical advances which, from heart transplants to vaccines, cancer trials and so on, have allowed progress to be made through trials which, before being applied to men, women and children, have rightly been tested on animals. Surely Christiaan Barnard did not make the first transplants on humans. It is equally clear that, at the same time, a worldwide sensitivity has grown to make the indispensable research - which must continue, on Parkinson's, on Alzheimer's, on cancer, on leukemias, on all the frontiers of medicine - compatible with sensitivity to animal welfare and animal protection. The 2010 European directive we are debating - I want to show it to colleagues, because not everyone knows what it is about - consists of 50 pages of animal protection provisions, which I fully agree with. It is meticulous: it describes, punishes and indicates, for each species, how to move to ensure the maximum protection of animals. Why are we only discussing it in 2013? Because for three years we have been firm, because in Italy we do not want to transpose the European directive as it is, but we want to do more; I say: we want to do the first in the class. It is true that even in the measure we are debating this morning, in Article 12, we envisage a whole series of limits, some of which, my fellow senators, sincerely seem to me to be lunar. I have just finished pawning the terrace of my home, as happens to many (because you know that mice, unfortunately, bring disease, cause fires and present a whole series of pathologies), and we write, in Article 12, that it is forbidden to research the substances of abuse carried out on rats. In Italy, therefore, research could no longer be carried out on cocaine, heroin and the ways in which progress is made to try to safeguard the lives of drug addicts. No longer could tests be carried out in rats, but only in humans. But not only that. The first paragraph of Article 12 states that xenotraplants are prohibited, except for advanced research, that is, that which, through stem cells (this applies both to heart valves, and to a whole other series of organs) and the application on animals can allow the creation of an archive of organs to transplant on men without waiting for the death of a person, to save millions of human lives. Also in paragraph 1 of Article 12 it is stated that in Italy it is forbidden to breed... dogs, cats and non-human primates intended for experimentation. I remember last year 500 animals arrived from the United States. This is due to the fact that it is not allowed to patent a drug for the international Pharmacopoeia and to place it on the market if it has not previously been tested on two types of animals, including a primate. Since in Italy a structure has been closed where guinea pigs were raised, as a result dogs come from abroad, or Italian companies test in other European countries. As Senator Marino said in the last parliamentary term, we risk sending home 6,000 researchers, abandoning advanced research that concerns precisely the production and patent of drugs, which maybe will seek luck in laboratories abroad where testing of this type is allowed. I could continue by recalling the ban on the use of animals in teaching exercises with the exception of the high training of doctors and veterinarians. This would mean that even doctors and veterinarians could not carry out animal teaching exercises; one cannot understand how one can become a veterinarian if, during studies, one cannot practice. These are all important issues that have a direct reflection on the progress of medicine and on the pathologies that can affect our fathers, our mothers, our wives or our children, who up to now have been able to draw hope from the continuation of the research that identifies new therapies to face a series of pathologies that, unfortunately, have not yet found an answer. Having said that, I will still vote for the measure, because the European directive is very clear and states that Member States cannot introduce more restrictive criteria in their system than those laid down in the European Directive and can only maintain provisions in force on 9 November 2010. Therefore, if a Member State has already had more restrictive legislation on 9 November 2010, this will remain in force. After that date, it is mandatory to adhere to and comply with the European directive. If a Member State fails to comply, it will incur an infringement. In the case of Italy, for example, the risk is that it will be condemned by the European Union that it would impose huge financial penalties by starting that mechanism which I have already mentioned, so that the 70 000 posts linked to scientific research in Italy and the Italian pharmaceutical industry would be put at risk. In fact, I would remind my colleagues that in order to find jobs for young people or the elderly we cannot think of competing with China or India by building dolls, considering the cost of labour in those countries. Our frontier is advanced research. If we abandon strategic sectors such as scientific research on new drugs by forcing industry and our researchers to emigrate abroad where the directive is applied, it is clear that we are damaging the economy of our country. As I said, my vote to the provision will be favorable because in paragraph 2 of Article 12 of the draft law 587 we read that "in the implementation of the principles and guiding criteria referred to in paragraph 1, the Government is obliged to comply with the obligations deriving from national, European or international legislation or pharmacology." There is therefore this safeguard clause which commits the Government - I repeat for the second time - to fully apply and fully transpose all the criteria that the European directive imposes in order to safeguard and protect the animals used for scientific purposes to the maximum. However, my culture and training lead me to believe that total respect and protection for animals has a limit. In fact, if I had to choose whether to put at risk the life of a human being or that of an animal, a rodent, a mouse or a dog, placed in the grip, I would choose to safeguard human life. And at the present state of research around the world this is inevitable, because the terms of the choice are these. I would like to recall the case of thalidomides that have contacted us and have come to visit us, that is, the about 10,000 people who were born in the world without arms or legs, because thalidomide had not been tested on pregnant guinea pigs. Unfortunately, this tragedy has involved tens of thousands of families and there are still men and women in Italy, today fifty years old, who have shown infinite courage. The honorary president of the Thalidodis association was born without arms, graduated, married and has a son. He had to face enormous difficulties in life and of course, along with me, he writes and argues that, if the drug had then tested itself on guinea pigs, 10,000 human beings would not have had to endure the consequences of this lack of attention to them for the rest of their lives. It is a mistake that has historically been made. Then the international community forced, before placing a drug on the market and applying it to men, women and children, to test it on animals. It's right that it is. It is right that this is done with all the cautions and attentions of the world, but I believe that this Senate must bear in mind that there is a hierarchy of values and that before rodents human beings come. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Marino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u22	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u23	Dear fellow senators, today I want to guide you in a brief methodological reflection. By now the European Union has engulfed the normative attention of the Member States and Italy, since it has the vocation to continue to participate in this continental unity, vocation which, in our opinion, should be ratified by the people in order to have legitimacy, must necessarily find a more just step to be behind Europe. We also know that the future will increasingly empty the national parliaments of the internal legislative power and give it to the representations in Europe, thus leaving our institutional bodies - as already happens - a marginal role that must recover importance through active participation in the European legislature, and not passive, as we are doing. To date, two laws have succeeded in making the training and transposition of European legislation more organic, but unfortunately - as the decisions of these days show - we are going back light years at the operational level. This is totally unacceptable, as it is unacceptable that, because of the laxity of the political class of recent years, our country is now pursuing regulatory activity rather than actively participating in it. Previous governments have only approved self-decapitation, such as the ESM and the fiscal compact, and have strongly supported a single currency that is not only a currency, but a method of government that does not do us all this good and because of their fugitiveness (because you have all been fugitive in European regulations) have produced nothing but an accumulation of infringement procedures (to date more than one hundred), fines and directives to be passively transposed. Each article of the draft law no. 587 and 588 correspond to a directive and all had to be transposed, amended or proposed by January last year. All in two parliamentary acts: so, if we reject the transposition they are all blocked, with astronomical figures to pay, figures that our country cannot afford: this is the usual social blackmail to make things pass quickly. We are firmly convinced, as the 5 Star Movement, that a review of European governance is necessary in order to put citizens at the centre of attention and decision-making procedure. Therefore, we must anticipate the creation of institutions that are more representative, because they do not represent us at all, with bodies voted by the people and therefore legitimated to make decisions on behalf of the people, which is not happening at this moment. The regulatory system must be guaranteed by all countries and allow the participation of national parliaments, but not only as colleges of guidance and evaluation of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality (this is not enough for us), but as real bodies which are binding on Community policies. The European Parliament would thus find itself with ever greater positions coming directly from the citizens. For us, no one must remain behind: this is a driving force behind our movement, and we hope that it will become one for all. And this concept cannot be separated from a joint path of political and democratic confrontation that is guaranteed towards all European countries, but with attention to cultural diversity (we cannot be approved), historical, territorial and social, and above all - which is not happening - that seeks protection from the great powers of economic and financial speculation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u24	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the first application of Law No 234 of 2012 on Italy's participation in the formation and implementation of European Union legislation and policies, a significant step is taken in the context of the change of the cultural and political paradigm, which marks the transition from the mere fulfilment of European obligations to the active and proactive participation of Italy in the formation of acts of the European Union. This is a process in which the Government shares the Italian position with the National Parliament, with the Regions and with local authorities, for the construction and implementation of the European legal order and for the determination of choices regarding the different common policies. An approach that ensures that the government's position remains anchored in the guidelines expressed in the representative institutions of democracy and responds to that principle of public information, transparency and subsidiarity as set out in Protocol 2 to the Lisbon Treaty. The framework of action and the system of relationship between the different levels of government are provided for in the same law n. 234 of 2012, which guarantees greater responsibility, sharing and coordination, but also greater timeliness in the fulfillment of European obligations, concreteness and proactive capacity. That Europe born from the Treaties of Rome, with the choice of functionalist integration, even if progressed in uncertain stages, has given us an irreversible heritage, from the direct election of the European Parliament to the customs union, from the single market to the free movement of goods and services, to the Schengen Agreement for the control of external borders, to European citizenship and monetary unity; and, on the institutional side, from the pillar structure of the Maastricht Treaty to the Treaty of Lisbon, which today, by changing the functioning of the institutions of an enlarged Union to 28 Member States, makes decision-making mechanisms more effective with the extension of codecision, more democratic and transparent, because it is closer to national parliaments. Italian Law No 234 of 2012 represents its internal instrument; a legal instrument, but which must aim at pursuing the European Union's medium and long-term policy objectives, such as those enshrined in the programme launched by the Commission for the Europe 2020 strategy, for smart growth, smart because it is knowledge-based, sustainable because it is able to promote the green economy, smart because it is inclusive, that is able to promote employment. Yet, in the most difficult period of crisis, this Europe has appeared to us to be a bad mother, capable of imposing austerity and rigour in public finances and unable to implement that principle of solidarity which should have accompanied the progressive transfer of sovereignty of the Member States; there has been an inability to share national destinies that become Community in order to take on, even with funds intended, national debts and to carry out restructurings that would not only benefit banking institutions. In Rome, our Government's action succeeded in sanctioning the transition from the Ecofin issues to the issues of youth unemployment, as reported by President Letta last week, finally putting man, the European citizen, back at the centre of European integration. We need to move from rigour to rigour and growth, for a new Stability Pact that facilitates investment by local authorities, capable of relaunching the economy; we need a commitment to the Structural Funds and the European Social Fund, in particular, to support youth employment. That of youth unemployment is a priority and an emergency that encloses all the distortions of our country. Yesterday it was the Europe of the Erasmus generation; Today is the brain drain. Paradoxically, Europe has appeared to us a bad mother precisely for the denunciation of the many infringements; we are the first in the standings to commit infringements among the 28 member countries. There are also convictions for human rights violations; there are even 600 sentences for too long a period of time in our justice system. It is precisely for this continuous reference to infringements that we must find the strength to support a process of unification towards the United States of Europe, and Law No 234 of 2012 is the first starting point of this path because it allows us to reduce the pending cases of conviction by as much as 17%. The measures under consideration can therefore have positive effects on the adaptation to European obligations. One final consideration. At this moment we can safely leave a position of special watchdogs to become true and convinced promoters of the process of European unification. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u26	Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u27	Mr President, Minister, Senators, this House today must delegate our Government to transpose certain European directives and to implement other acts of the European Union. However, I am inspired by the text on dealing with these draft laws to shift the point of observation of you colleagues on a subject which has been heavily debated at this time. While I was reading these days the measure under consideration and the subjects contained in the body of directives that we are preparing to transpose, I have been reminded of the numerous discussions which have taken place in this Assembly, on the desirability that a supranational and tentacular superstructure such as the European Union can determine, through formal and regulatory constructions of a general type, the substantial living of communities of citizens so distant geographically, but above all distinct by history, social customs and microeconomy. The public debate on newspapers, television, radio, web and every form of information has returned in the last few months of strong current affairs, and not only in the field of mass communication but, as I have found, also in the academic university. The crisis of the economy of the Mediterranean countries in the face of the social wealth and the commercial and financial hegemony of those of Gallo-Germanic ethnicity, exacerbated in these years of first unitary monetarism, risks seriously undermining the desired achievement of a long period of pax socialis, which was expected to be achieved with the implementation of the single currency. Fior di economisti e di pensatori contemporanei are questioning to try to understand if it is beneficial, for the countries that have suffered most from the recession, to remain in the legislative and regulatory network of Brussels or to provide, according to autonomous principles, to heal national budgets and economic configurations. The scenario is divided between those who claim that it is possible to challenge the states that dictate the European policy line and those who believe that it is madness to stand out from the rules that we ourselves have helped to produce. The financial legal problem is not easy to solve, or at least it is more insidious than it might seem, perhaps too simplistic. What I know is that many entrepreneurs, as well as workers and their employees with whom I relate, are often of the opinion that the parameters imposed by the directives are in some cases detrimental to the national production and employment system. This undoubtedly poses inescapable questions from the political point of view and of the future choices of the Italian Parliament. For my personal history and cultural approach, I believe that Europe is an indispensable resource for Italy. This country, with its many weaknesses, although strong in the weight of its history and its excellence, needs the old continent and the Community scheme it has endowed itself with to administer itself and manage itself as efficiently and productively as possible. Being outside these common precepts is at this stage a political error and therefore it is not the way to pursue: in the magnum sea of these legislative acts there are many norms of common sense and consolidated pragmatic experimentation that push us in the direction of social progress and the improvement of the quality of life of our country. For this series of reasons, I believe it is appropriate for us to include and use the Community experiences contained in the text. I therefore welcome my vote in favour of the delegation to the Government for the transposition of these provisions and acts into our legal system. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u29	Mr President, we find ourselves again with more than 30 European directives combined in just two measures. Of course they are all open infringement procedures, they are all procedures that cost us money (or rather, they cost us not but citizenship). The government had promised, at the time of its establishment, that it would no longer do omnibus measures; it forgot to add the words "nothing but" in the sense that more correctly one should read "we will do nothing but omnibus measures ". [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover, these European directives have all been under discussion within about ten days, after being molded for two years. We have been told that we were in urgent need because we were under infringement, but we have been waiting for two years to say that we were in breach. Perhaps this seems a method to ensure that things are discussed in a short time, quickly and without being able to make thoughtful and sensible decisions. We would therefore like to see an end to this method, possibly starting with the next legislative act; we will see if this can be implemented. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Among other things, we once again complain that Europe tells us that we have to do certain things, but in fact they are things of absolute common sense that we should have done by ourselves without anyone telling us. For example, we do not need the European Union to tell us that we should certify and monitor how forests and timber imports are managed, because in recent years we have depleted and destroyed the forests of Romania (to quote a nation that has so much desire to go down with the euro) both as wood for work and construction, and even as firewood. We imported six million tons of firewood from Romania, while we have forests that have continuous crashes, such as the Abetina of the Apennines (which, remember, are artificial, were implanted by the Camaldolese monks). Well, despite this, we are able to get wood abroad, not to mention what we do when we import wood from Indonesia or Madagascar. Then there is an absolutely heterogeneous gem to everything else and that had to be dealt with separately, namely the matter of animal testing. First I heard someone say, that now he is not present, a set of falsehoods and meaningless things that would actually fill a wagon. However, I would like to say briefly that there is, first of all, an ethical fact, in the sense that we should try to have an anti-specific attitude and therefore not give preference to one animal species over the others. Not only that, but the current technique of calculation has allowed to simulate perhaps the most complicated event that can occur, that is a nuclear detonation, which - let us remember - takes place in some billionth of a second. Well, the technique of calculation has succeeded in simulating the incredible quantities of neutron collisions that occur within a nuclear detonation, and it is possible to simulate optimally atmospheric dynamics or the behaviour of molecules within an organism. Despite this, despite the fact that more than 90 percent of the drugs that have been successful in animal testing then on man do not work, there is still talk of animal experimentation. Some might say that we are not talking here about doing or not doing animal testing: we are actually doing so, because in the transposition of the European directive we are nevertheless accepting animal testing in a restricted form. If someone really believes that they are against animal experimentation, that is, antispecific, they should say: I do not accept this, because I cannot accept it, after which I speak on national legislation and I take action at European level in the ascending phase to say that we do not want this in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the fact that I am voting in favour of this draft law. As I said in the Environment Commission, where I have been rapporteur for draft law No 588, it is a very positive fact that our country complies with European regulations, thus avoiding the risk of falling into an infringement procedure. I too really hope that less and less can be the open procedures. It is an important fact with regard to the credibility of our country with European partners, especially at a stage like the one we are experiencing, where Europe is the main interlocutor, on the ground of measures to combat the economic crisis and also because - let us not forget this - the Italian Presidency will begin in a precise year. But, as the Commission also said, if legislation is to be transposed, it is important that these do not undermine or reduce the powers of local authorities. The risk to be avoided, if this can be defined, is that the principle of subsidiarity should cease to exist, which must remain an absolute value, precisely in order not to betray the original spirit of the European Union, which places this principle among those at the basis of its reason for existence. That was the motivation behind my positive opinion, which was shared by the Commission by a majority, on draft law No 588, which was partly, I must say, distorted by other Commissions: I refer in particular to Article 27 (now became 26), which has been amended in substance. Having said that, I would also like to mention the agenda I presented, the G100, which commits the Government to ratifying the Additional Protocol, which is necessary to legally shape the cross-border cooperation activity between the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano and the Austrian Land of Tyrol, an agreement which is a means of bilateral implementation of the Madrid Agreement, which over the years has already received various green light from Parliament and the Council of Ministers, signed in December 2000, by the then Secretary of State for Language Minorities Gianclaudio Bressa, and which has already been the subject of authorization for ratification by the Austrian Parliament. Therefore, to date, only the last step is missing, namely the authorisation of ratification by this Parliament. The ratification of this agreement would be a very important fact in a vision of the European Union as a home in which people can really grow together. Just to give an idea, I quote from Article 4 of the framework agreement signed between Italy and Austria which would be some of the areas of synergistic construction: transport and communications, energy distribution, environmental protection, management of cross-border parks, crafts, vocational training, health, culture, sport, leisure, civil protection, tourism, cross-border transport workers' problems, social security, jobs, unemployment. They are all problems which, given the social and economic contiguity, deserve a synergistic approach, in order to generate a model of growth and development in the interests of all, without weakening the prerogatives of the States belonging to the various territories concerned. This agreement represents an added value, a flywheel of relations, an important step towards a bottom-up democracy which alone can build the Europe of peoples and regions, which we all want, but which we struggle to accept; yet it is the only Europe that can stand, if we do not want the Union to fail under the weight of different nationalisms and national interests. Our three territories have constituted the EGTC (European Group of Territorial Cooperation): it is the second in Italy and the twenty-first in Europe and it is working really well. The EGTC is now the only legally viable route, but the additional protocol would open up important and strategic scenarios for other border regions as well: let us think of those bordering the Balkans, now that Croatia has come into full effect into the European Union. I know that there are problems of improbability on this agenda, and I await the Presidency's pronunciation. If it is not accepted, however, I am now taking charge of presenting a bill which, I hope, this Senate will approve. Italy can no longer stand this contradiction: on the one hand, as we did a few days ago in this House, we are chanting the entry of Croatia (or even Turkey) and, on the other hand, we are closing down on national borders, preventing regions and territories from putting in the field of incisive policies and serious and concrete projects of European cooperation. It remains my hope that Parliament and the Government will proceed as soon as possible with ratification, always with the idea that all this goes in the desired direction, that of a policy that frees society and puts it in a position to express all its potential, which is the only way out of the crisis in practice and effectively. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u32	Mr President, Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the strategic importance of this debate, because Community law, now replaced by the law of European delegation and by European law, must represent a valuable opportunity to take stock of Italy's way of participating in the Union's regulatory process, and above all the effects of such participation. For its part, the European Commission expresses its condolences to certain States, namely Italy, for the failure, partial or incorrect application of the provisions of European legislation: hence, the need to correct any failure to transpose the provisions correctly. On the other hand, however, reading both draft laws in question, the word "obligations" is repeated several times. There is a legitimate doubt at this point, because perhaps a few limits have been exceeded: we must ask ourselves whether the fulfilment of the obligations arising from membership of the European Union is not trampling the prerogatives of the States and its citizens. The suspicion is very strong, and this risk runs when the Government and Parliament adapt to decisions taken in Europe that do not take into account the specificities and peculiarities of our country; specificity that cannot be understood by those who are far away and reason in abstract terms on realities that they do not know and do not live daily. This is the case with Article 33, the first Article 35 of the European law, which requires Italy to immediately refund 100% of taxes and contributions suspended to companies affected by the earthquakes of 1997, 2002 and, ultimately, with the eagle one of 2009, despite the state's laws setting the refund rate at 40%. Amendment 33.202, tabled by the rapporteur, is at the moment impossible, because of the negative opinion of the 5th Commission, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution. I very much hope that this amendment will be reconsidered because if Europe did not want to look at the obvious difficulties in which our companies have been operating and are still operating, in part, perhaps the responsibility was also ours; obviously we have not made our voice heard sufficiently and we have not had the courage to take firm positions and, above all, have not been present at the stages and places where the measures have been taken. On the other hand, we must have courage to assert Italy's reasons. In the case of companies, and I am speaking in particular of those of L'Aquila, the reason for initiating the infringement procedure is also, in my view, unreasonable. I do not understand what State aid would be detrimental to equal competition, since these companies have been affected by a very serious event and have been disadvantaged regardless of the level of damage suffered. Therefore, State intervention had no other effect than to restore a level playing field between companies operating in these disaster situations and neighbouring companies. Therefore, in the name of compliance with Community obligations, the Italian institutions would penalise companies already put to the test by such disastrous natural events. I therefore think that common sense must come into play at this moment; a common sense that must also come into play on many other occasions. I would like to give another example of a directive that is not under consideration today, the so-called Bolkestein directive, which continues to pose a threat to the beachers, a very important category in our country. The state property concessions in fact could be banned public and, therefore, go through the auction sale, despite the specific Italian that makes our coasts and their organization unique in the world. In Italy, automatisms in the renewal of concessions have allowed a great development and medium-small enterprises, when not family-friendly, have achieved unimaginable results, contributing decisively to the national economy. Why should 27 states, sitting around a table, have the right to decide on the use of the beaches of only three states with bathing coasts? The suspicion is that other interests and logics also come into play. And it would not surprise me if from those very states, without bathing beaches, flows of capital and entrepreneurs willing to invest on our beaches, in the name of the flagship freedom of competition. That is why I believe that the use of common sense requires a reflection on this issue too. Therefore, on the one hand, we call on our Government to take more effective action at European level, but on the other hand, we must make good use of the discretion which is recognised to us in the way in which Community rules are transposed. In fact, decisions taken by a majority - the European Union - by an abstract and distant entity can have a serious impact on national specificities. That is precisely why the Member States have that margin of discretion, and I hope that in Italy they will start to make good use of it. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u33	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u34	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank and greet the House. Today we are here to discuss the measures on European delegation law, European law 2013 and related reports on Italy's participation in the European Union and in this House I have the opportunity to briefly explain - for 4 minutes - my thoughts. Europe will not be able to do so at once, nor will it be built all together; it will arise from concrete achievements which first create a de facto solidarity: I mentioned Robert Schuman, a father of the European Union, so esteemed and dear to De Gasperi as well. This can be done through the realization of a meeting point, where these experiences are confronted and selected, thus creating new forms of community inspired by greater freedom and a more just social life. The European Union is our meeting point; European legislation is the result of comparison and selection of ideals and values: that should be it. I read from the Programmatic Report on Italy's participation in the European Union that our country's action in the field of employment and social policies has as its priority the strengthening of social protection systems and policies for activation, support and promotion of social inclusion and adequate means of living, in implementation of the Europe 2020 strategy, according to the programme of the Commission 2013. Among other things, the Europe 2020 strategy aims to increase the employment rate of people aged between twenty and sixty-four to 75% and to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty by 20 million. In addition to the important initiatives to combat youth unemployment - and let us do this - there are no initiatives for inactive and unemployed people between the ages of thirty and fifty-four. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In Italy these people are the greatest social burden, as they are totally dependent on our social security system. Moreover, there are more than 9 million Italian citizens who do not receive any income and - therefore - at risk of poverty and social exclusion. The 5 Star Movement believes that a complex rationalization and simplification of existing income support instruments must be carried out in order to achieve, like other European countries, the introduction of citizenship income as an instrument of universal social protection. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is no good to play with words, using the social card mask, instead of dwelling on this instrument, which must be understood not disconnected from a restructuring of the system of employment services. PD, PdL and Civic Choice last week rejected a motion that dealt with these issues: you have wronged the Italian people! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we often talk about the competitiveness of the Italian industrial system and the need to link this competitiveness to innovation and research. Well, I hope that in the delegation that this House will give to the Government to provide it with some guidelines we will consider and take on board the idea that Italy will enter into the enhanced cooperation procedure with regard to the single European patent. The patent, as you know, is the document that crystallizes the results obtained in the field of applied research by those who deposit it, i.e. companies, and is one of the main elements of competitiveness for those who achieve it. The Italian system of the medium, small and also of the great enterprise is not at the vanguard from this point of view, also because it has remained tied for too long to a narrow vision of this crucial function in the development of the enterprises. To simply bind to the national dimension, as has been done so far, the construction of patents and then the subsequent extension in the different countries apparently constitutes a limitation of costs: the national patent, in fact, requires an investment of ratification lower than the European one but then, if such patent, important, wants to have a future in the world and in other European countries, it is necessary that it consolidates from country to country, with costs that become very high (it is estimated at least 40,000 euros per patent). On the other hand, if we adhere to the European patent, these costs fall between EUR 4,000 and EUR 6,000. Of course, they are a little higher than those that become indispensable for the mere national dimension. But here we must decide whether to defend situations of backwardness of our system we want to prevent those who want to join the European patent, who do not cancel the national dimension but support it, or if instead we want to offer our industrial system this opportunity as well. I think the answer is... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u38	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the attention he has paid to the Commission and which he is now devoting to this important measure in this House. Today we are called upon to approve very important documents relating to the European Union: the draft law delegates (No 587) and the draft European law (No 588), as well as the policy and consistent reports on Italy's participation in the European Union. These are measures which are important also for the vastness of the topics covered, which have a practical, direct impact on many areas of our administrations. In this regard, I would just like to make a brief comment, which I have already shared with my colleagues in the Commission on health and hygiene, on the effects that European legislation has in particular on mountain areas. As a representative of a region that is made up of 100% mountains, the Valle d'Aosta (but I also associate with this speech the Trentino-Alto Adige, and in a certain sense the reasoning involves all the Italian Alpine valleys), I cannot fail to stress how often European decisions and regulations put in serious difficulty some work sectors, such as those of farmers and mountain farmers, or primary producers, for example in the wine sector. The application of these rules is often difficult, almost impossible, as in the field of animal welfare or primary production, having been probably thought of for the plains of Holland, France, Germany, but with little consideration for the mountain territories. This results in the impossibility for the regions and the State itself to make appropriate changes, with possible repercussions in terms of sanctions of the order of thousands of euros to farms and mountain farms that are already in objective difficulty, for which these fines sometimes represent the classic drop that overflows the vase of an increasingly difficult life, full of controls of all types and bureaucracy. Therefore, Minister, I would like to leave you with this call to take on these critical issues and to pass them on to the European authorities and the elected in the European Parliament, in order to ensure that the mountain regions are taken into account with their characteristics and criticalities, so that the European Union truly represents all the peoples that make up it with equal dignity, and not all the children and stepchildren of the A or B series countries. [[Applause from Senators Zeller and Silvestro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u39	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u40	Mr President, I would like to begin by acknowledging to the 14th Commission and its President, as well as to the two rapporteurs, the merit of having quickly and efficiently the delay with which Parliament has come to the examination of these measures (Legislature Nos. 587 and 588, respectively, relating to the European delegation law and the European law of 2013), a delay accumulated in the previous legislature and which lasted for two years. The two drafts have been dealt with with with the right perspective: the Commission's approach is that of a new responsibility for Italy's obligations to belong to the European Union. However, I believe, Mr President, that this sense of responsibility should not be relegated to the 14th Commission. I say this because it happens that then, on the substance, we go to define and make measures, to some extent amending the directives and regulations which are the subject of Parliament's transposition action, which keep our country at risk of infringement. This risk of infringement, I would like to remind you, costs, has a significant and increasingly significant burden. It is no coincidence - it has been said before, and others will say it after me, about this matter - that infringements concern particularly sensitive areas, such as the environment, social policies, inclusion activities, human rights. In fact, there is more distraction about these issues, which relate to the lives of all of us - the economy, taxation - than to other events that concern some in particular. Furthermore, Mr President, I think it is right and proper to open a question on the applicability of Article 81 of the Constitution in these circumstances. In fact, there is a practice, a guideline which I consider to be unacceptable, so that any adaptation of the functioning of the public administration to the new provisions entails burdens and Article 81 of the Constitution is applied almost automatically as a refusal to introduce those innovations. Thus, we have a particularly rigid public system that finds a further conservative force in the interpretation that any procedural change to which we are obliged to adapt our behaviour to the provisions of the European Union entails additional burdens. Everyone, starting with the Government and the President-in-Office of the Council, comes here to say that the European Union is our destiny, repeating phrases such as: "We must become more European," "we are at the forefront of this movement," "we want to finally build a European Union in which our participation is active and decisive." Then, with Article 81 of the Constitution, if a procedure is to be amended, it cannot be done and we are in a situation of breach of European provisions! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] It seems to me, Mr President - and here the address must come from the Government, which I hope will accept my invitation - that the budgetary Commission's guidelines should include the principle that an additional burden should be demonstrated, and not the other way round, namely that there is no additional burden. It must be demonstrated that any procedural change actually entails an additional burden in order to be able to veto Article 81 of the Constitution. Finally, it seems to me that there has been a very considerable step forward - and we must thank the rapporteur on draft law No 587, which has been spent on this - in the area of asylum seekers and refugees, because on this ground, where we were paying a guilty delay, we have managed to move forward in a totally shared way without registering any significant division within the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u41	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the reading of the programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2013 raises many concerns. The report speaks to us of an already marked path of progressive economic integration and structural reform, a bad term as we shall see later, of the Italian economy as if there were no choices to make and ponder, decisions on which to reflect, scenarios to investigate, issues to be deepened. The report would like us to believe that we live in the best possible worlds, that the European Union is not critical, except external and external ones, such as an economic crisis experienced as an external shock or at most charged to a general globalization. It celebrates the glory and splendour of a policy of integration apparently without shadows, as if no mistake had been made, as if nothing had to be remedied. Never, if not rhetorically, is it announced or invoked to constitute moments of reflection and confrontation on the path up to now, on the choices made, on the legitimacy and democracy of the mechanisms of governance of the single market and the single currency, on the possibility of a greater participation of the peoples of Europe in the decisions that fall from above. More than a programmatic report, this seems to be a panegyric one on European policies, as when the astonishing success of the Maastricht parameters and of monetary and market unification is celebrated, where the report states, I quote: After 1992, the realization of the "four freedoms" (free movement of persons, goods, services and capital) has unleashed a huge potential for growth and given rise to an important process of economic and social development. This statement makes us smile, if we consider that the last twenty years has been the lowest growth since the post-war period, and that the last few years have seen an economic depression spread even worse, for Italy, than that of 1929. But there is another aspect of this passage that we would like to stress: the emphasis on the four freedoms supposed to be the foundation of the future, hypothetical prosperity of the peoples of Europe. Because for the 5 Star Movement the laying at the foundation of the European project four freedoms, which correspond indistinguishably to citizens, goods, services and capital, goes on course of collision with the Republican Constitution, which does not equate citizens, goods, services and capital in the ownership of rights or freedom, but rather subordinates economic freedom to the attainment of social ends (Article 41 of the Constitution). As more and more observers point out, the excessive emphasis placed by the European Union on the economic dimension, sometimes even to the detriment of the dimension of rights and democratic legitimacy, is one of the problems of our time and demands that such analysis and decisions be made at the height of the moment, not self-celebrative by wearing blindfolds. The depression that afflicts Mediterranean Europe, in particular, and that in the course of a few years has also led to a political, social crisis, in some countries (such as Greece) even humanitarian, requires us to review some assumptions and choices. It requires us to stop and think. Then let's try to think about some of the central junctions of the document. The Government is committed to continuing a fiscal consolidation favourable to growth, which is a clear oxymoron. Fiscal consolidation, by compressing public expenditure and domestic demand, can only result in the contraction of the economy and certainly not in growth. Children know this now, but the Government continues unceasingly in its work of mystifying the basic principles of the economy. The government promises loyalty to the European treaties that impose austerity measures. Allowed and not allowed that the oxymoron-growth is feasible, the instrument with which we intend to pursue this objective, that is, fidelity to the treaties of austerity, clearly conflicts with another programmatic objective stated in the report, that of the "macroeconomic coordination." Relying on macroeconomic coordination to fiscal compact and growth and jobs compact is another contradiction in terms. The growth compact and the treaties in which they are articulated impose indiscriminately rigorous and austerity measures on all member countries, regardless of their respective positions regarding the balance of payments, the economic cycle, external debt. A real macroeconomic coordination in the eurozone - as reported by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, but I could also mention the reports of other institutions, such as the Working Paper No. 721 of the Levy Economic Institute in 2012 - would foresee expansive manoeuvres in the countries in trade surplus, so that the countries in trade deficit can engage with their exports. This coordination is not there. We need the countries in surplus (I refer in particular to Germany) to stimulate their domestic demand with expansive manoeuvres, offering the countries in deficit the possibility to increase their exports in order to recover the gap of competitiveness. In addition, competitiveness differentials would be mitigated by the rise in inflation in countries in trade surplus as a result of expansionary manoeuvres. We know, however, what terror the word inflation, albeit controlled, generates in the German people. All this is not foreseen in the growth compact, which ignores the differences between countries in surplus and in commercial deficits, as well as the differences between creditor and debtor countries. By imposing uniform fiscal discipline and indifferent to the economic cycle, the growth compact in fact denies the coordination of macroeconomic policies provided for in the founding treaties of the European Union (in particular Article 5 of the Regulation of the European Union No 1176 of 2011 on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances), as well as the programmatic commitments of the Italian Government. Since the beginning of the crisis, economic coordination has been absent among the Member States, replaced by the straitjacket of austerity for all, with the tragic results now evident to those who still have the intellectual honesty to recognize them. We then come to discuss Italy's participation in monetary union, which is also an issue dealt with in an uncritical and apologetic way in the report. To overcome this propaganda curtain it is worth reading the reports of the European Commission (I refer to the in-depth examination for Italy of 30 May 2012) that support how from the introduction of the euro - I quote - the loss of cost competitiveness is one of the main factors at the basis of the decline of the trade balance of Italy and that the trend of the real effective exchange rate suggests the establishment of a competitive gap (...) between Italy and other countries of the euro area. The Commission estimates a nominal exchange rate over the real exchange rate of 10% compared to the other European countries and 25% over Germany. While the nominal exchange rate of the euro is too strong for Italy, for Germany it is too weak, favouring its exports to the detriment of its trading partners, which also poses a further obstacle to the coordination of economies between member countries in the face of Germany's unwillingness to deal with such imbalances (we look forward to the forthcoming German elections). The combination of the overestimate of the euro against the Italian real exchange rate with the underestimating of the euro against the real exchange rate of Germany (our main trading partner) constitutes, at the same time, a flywheel for the German economy and an elusive boulder for the Italian industrial system. The tara on the costs of production weighs not only on the export, but also on the internal market, invaded by goods and services of competing countries (in the first place Germany itself) that enjoy a weak nominal exchange rate and a cumulative competitive gap over the years that will only increase progressively. Such a gap in production costs is almost irresolvable to the present state of European policies, and it is useless in this regard to vanish by talking about research, innovation, flexibility, deburocratization, words so dear to the single model that governs us and certainly useful in times of growth, while they prove helpless during a depressing spiral, such as the current one, as tools to address what the European Commission itself defines the gap in production costs In short, you offer aspirin to cure pestilence! The fixed exchange rate, in the absence of macroeconomic coordination between trading partners, produces a competitive gap that accumulates and widens every year that passes, strangling the Italian economy in a spiral of which the end is not seen. The unique model does not want to address the issue in the face of public opinion, preferring to let the Italian economy die through a slow but inexorable euthanasia. The report before us today does not even mention this criticality in the vain attempt to ignore the elephant in the crystal, also having the courage to say that the government would have spent - I quote - on a fair sharing of the benefits and risks of the single currency. If this is fair, perhaps we should start not talking about European integration anymore, but about annexation to Europe. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u43	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u44	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law no. 587 and 588 go back to dealing with the issues which we shared in the previous parliamentary term in the European Union's old political Commission and in the previous wording of Article 14 (I shall focus in particular on animal welfare matters) which dealt with the use of animals in experiments, which was reduced and possible. That Commission saw deep lacerations, which led to immobilism and in any case to the closure of these improvements in the Senate, while, thanks to the commitment of all, the House of Deputies achieved a favourable outcome (I am sure that Minister Moavero will remember this, because he had helped, together with us, to the possible sharing of those points). Points that are precisely those relating to the reduction of the use of animals in the trial, and in particular to the exclusion of dogs, cats and primates, while obviously no one is able to intervene, or in any case no one wants to hinder the research and experimentation that, unfortunately, is still done on other animals. Now things have changed, even if they may have improved. In some ways, in this new Parliament, we are proposing a rule which, thanks to the work done in 14a The Commission, thanks to the work of President Chiti, the rapporteurs and Minister Moavero Milanesi himself, has found a possible composition in the text of Article 12 of the bill of European delegation. Certainly it is an acceptable composition on the thread of what is the ethical and moral reasoning that each of us places when he speaks of research and when he still speaks of the life of another living being. In giving delegation to the Government for the transposition of European legislation we provide some guidelines that I am sure will be respected, but I hope they can be expanded and strengthened in the measures that the Government will present to us. Italy has often incurred heavy infringements, millions of euros burdening citizens' pockets, precisely because of the lack of animal protection. I am thinking of the last infringement, which was imposed on us in 2010, concerning the directive on birds and in particular small migrants, small birds from 20 to 40 grams of weight that migrate from the Nordic countries of Europe, come from Scandinavia and Finland, and after traveling thousands and thousands of kilometers, due to regional derogations, they are killed for the fun of someone. However, the underlying problem remains, which we will talk about in the agendas and in the amendments: unfortunately in our country it is even more comfortable and it is even easier to massacre animals for experiments, to carry out research on the basis of ordinaryity, rather than investing money, betting and testing with alternative methods, investing money and brains. It is more comfortable and easier to buy a dog or cat, use it as much as possible and then, with a pitiful, but also hypocritical, anesthesia or at least euthanasia, put it to rest. It costs more to invest in alternative methods, but it is what asks us to do international research. This is not excluded, however, because the agreed text of Article 12 maintains the possibility of experimentation for all high research. I shall end by saying, Mr President, that I reserve the right to speak, during the examination of the amendments and agendas, about convenience and how we can do it sooner and better without taking too much action on the public budget. We have been condemned several times, for example, on the directive on laying hens: fines are too low, and therefore farmers prefer to pay - if they pay it - a small fine rather than buy a new cage, because in a small cage there are three chickens. Now the fines have been high and, therefore, the deterrent effect can work. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u45	Senator Palermo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u46	Mr President, I have ten minutes, but I will use a lot less of them for a matter of self-discipline, pending the blessed hope of a regulatory reform on the timing of the debate. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI, SCPI and M5S]] Also because we are all theoretically already prepared when the measures arrive in this House. So I'm not going to repeat things that we should already know. I only make two very brief general considerations: the first on technology and - if you will allow me - the regulatory technology that underpins these measures; the second on the impact of these measures on the overall regulatory system. On the first point, on the progress I would call technical of the law, we know that we are before the first law of European delegation, as provided for in Law No 234 of 2012, in implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon. It is also a very advanced regulatory tool compared to many other European countries, so perhaps we can also be happy sometimes with the progress we make. After the laws La Pergola and Buttiglione of recent years, we are faced with a leap of important quality of the normative instrument. The times are somewhat distant when Italy was always the last wheel of the wagon in the implementation of the Community directives. We have a clear separation between the ascending phase and the descending phase, with two separate and different laws. The first is clearly more important for Parliament's role; the second is less important, because these are obligations which - I would like to remind you - would largely be the responsibility of the regions if they were able to do properly and always their job of implementing Community legislation in matters within their competence. Therefore, it must be acknowledged that we finally have an appropriate instrument; the hope is that Parliament will best familiarise itself with this new technology. On the second point (which will have consequences for the overall system), these are mainly technical laws which serve, in particular European law, to curb infringement procedures and to transpose the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice and the European directives. But the scope of the subjects covered is vast and above all it concerns a heterogeneous set of subjects, which make more effective the enjoyment of the freedoms established by the Treaty, in particular the access to the professions, the recognition of services carried out abroad, the right of residence, the access of certain categories of foreigners to the public administration. They are measures that may be spoken of little, but that really and finally open our country to the full enjoyment of the freedoms of the treaties, willing or not, because many are the result of infringement procedures. In short, Italy is actually starting to become more European with this path. It can be seen that we are only at the beginning of the experimentation of this legislative instrument, because the law covers about a quarter of the infringement procedures currently opened against Italy. But certainly we must look at it as an important first step, and the hope is that the next European law will be less occupied with infringement procedures and more with the potential that these laws have, in order to allow real progress in regulatory technology, on which these laws are based, which can finally bring our country to the forefront in Europe, at least in this field. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u47	Senator Bianconi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u48	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration is the result of an important reform which places at the centre a new way of dialogue between the Government and Parliament: more participation by Parliament in the preparation of European legislation and policies and faster implementation of the directives themselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u49	Excuse me, Senator Bianconi, it is irrational, but I would like to greet the vice president of the Senate of Malaysia Doris Sophia Brodi, who is a guest of the Senate, accompanied by a delegation. We greet Vice President Brodi and all his delegation: welcome to the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u50	I apologize to Senator Bianconi, who will understand, and I give her the floor again.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr President, you have done very well to interrupt me for the House's greeting to this important delegation. I said that there will be faster implementation of the directives themselves and there will also be new instruments for adapting European obligations. Traditional Community law, the main instrument for implementing European legislation, is split into European delegation law and European law. At the origin of this duplication there is the awareness that the previous plant had problematic aspects, a sort of abuse of the instrument itself, which tended to make it a sort of omnibus law. With this doubling, delays should be overcome, ensuring a smoother and faster process. It is expected that the European delegation law will contain only the delegations to the Government for the implementation of the directives and decisions to be transposed into our law, while Community law will contain all acts aimed at the Union's external relations. On the subject of the European delegation law, as far as the health field is concerned, we find delegations of great interest in the field of cross-border medicine. Those in the Health Commission know that this is almost a bullet of mine, but I am very much afraid that if we do not open a debate and a thoughtful reflection on this issue we will be able to have considerable problems. This directive regulates patients' rights to cross-border healthcare and reimbursement of expenses, in order to ensure the freedom of choice of patients within Europe today at 28. This delegation will open a great debate and, while recognising the absolute goodness of the measure, the mechanisms for the reimbursement of benefits between different Member States will have to be weighed very carefully in order to avoid possible disputes over the extent and timeliness of the relevant payments. It will also be important to assess carefully and carefully the impact it will have on our National and Regional Health Service, particularly for regions bordering other European countries. Another very important delegation is the Pharmacovigilance Directive. The State may, by urgent action, suspend the marketing authorisation and prohibit the use of the medicinal product in order to protect public health. We are certainly the first in Europe in this area. Our speed of evaluation and elimination from trade of a drug that can harm public health is not equal in Europe, and we must be very proud of that. I leave out other aspects of the measure to focus on a long-standing issue: the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. Failure to transpose by the deadline of 10 November 2012 led the European Commission to initiate the infringement procedure for failure to adopt implementing measures ensuring the implementation of each provision of the 2010 Directive on the protection of animals for scientific purposes. Therefore, in order to allow the filing of this infringement procedure, I believe that the 14th Commission has found an excellent solution and a synthesis with paragraph 2 of Article 12, which I would like to read, because it protects us from everything: In the implementation of the guiding principles and criteria referred to in paragraph 1, the Government is obliged to comply with the obligations arising from national, European or international legislation or pharmacology. This is a fair approach that puts us fully into European research and protection, and above all it will not let the funding for research that takes place in our territory escape. On this we have witnessed in recent years a war without borders that has paled the diatribe between Guelphs and Ghibellines. We hope to mark, with this measure, a stop, a truce. We absolutely need it. With regard to European law 2013, we have a long series of infringement procedures to be remedied and EU Pilot cases that aim to ensure faster and more comprehensive responses regarding the application of EU law, in particular those addressed by citizens or businesses. Specifically, there are decisions on companies between lawyers, tax monitoring, and the reliance on the local tax collection service. I conclude, Mr President, Minister, by saying that this new way of dealing with Community directives must increasingly see Parliament's participation, because we know very well that Italian policy has changed a great deal on the basis of the transposition of European directives in recent years. It is always said that 80% of our laws come from European directives. Therefore, we cannot be surprised when some directive is adopted that we do not like, pretending that it falls on our heads, if we do not act immediately on the formation of directives themselves. This new way of working means that our Parliament is increasingly involved in the choices that the country must make in Europe and increases the transparency of choices. Therefore, Minister, let us welcome this piece which will certainly increase the democratic legitimacy of our country's action towards Europe. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u52	Thank you for accepting the interruption.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u53	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u54	Mr President, with the innovation introduced by Law 234 of 24 December 2012, we are faced with an important change in the rules governing Italy's participation in the European Union, providing - I believe correctly - for the doubling of Community law into two measures, namely European law, which contains the provisions for adaptation, and the law of delegation for transposition. For the first time, the Senate is dealing with Community law with these new provisions, and I really hope that this will be a turning point in the Italian State's relationship with European legislation, partly because we are in a situation that is certainly not brilliant in relation to European directives. I would like to mention, like many of my previous colleagues, the data on infringement procedures which are open to Italy, pointing out that, only from 25 April to 30 May 2013, the 98 infringement procedures have been added five more. So there is an almost monthly rate of infringement proceedings. Among other things, these infringement procedures largely concern the environment and other socially sensitive issues; only for the environment have we accumulated 33-34 percent of infringement procedures. This tells us (we have had discussions on this, even recently, on the European Council) that our governments - this concerned the Monti Government and concerns, alas, the current Government - have certainly been very strict in transposing and implementing the commitments in a manner that is also meticulous (I think, for example, of all the issues that concern the fiscal compact), but they are not as rigid in integrating Italian legislation into European legislation. Therefore, I wonder if it is not only rhetorical when we hear ourselves saying that our country must be a leader in European integration, in building the union of peoples, in building Europe's strong political unity, while we are among the countries that are lagging behind in adapting to European legislation. It is clear that there may be conflicts between the interests of our country and Europe, but this must precede the time of adoption of the directive, and often - I say this also to the Minister - this in the past, but I hope that things can change today, it has not happened to the best. In fact, before the directives are adopted, I believe that we must, in harmony with Europe, play a much stronger role in protecting our country. For example, in environmental infringement procedures, I think we have not done the interests of our country. As is evident by reading those infringement procedures on the transposition or the misapplication of directives, we have really hurt our country because governments have helped to make Italy accumulate so many delays in sectors fundamental to the economy. It is no coincidence that yesterday we debated and voted on the decree on energy efficiency, which also concerned the transposition of the directive, and also there late. Delay means that, from the point of view of the objectives 20-20-20, we are certainly positioning ourselves, but we could be a leader of a very virtuous process, also from the point of view of the environmental and economic benefits on renewable energies that, instead, have always seen us late. This also covers all issues relating to environmental impact assessments and choices that are certainly not appropriate for a strong idea of environmental sustainability. In particular, we will have the opportunity to speak on the individual amendments, but I would like to thank President Chiti, the two rapporteurs and all the Commissioners of the 14th The Commission has tried to do an important job, a job that it has tried, both in the European law and in the law of the European delegation, to make progress. In particular, I would like to focus on the, of course, important results that have been achieved with regard, for example, to the transposition of the directive on vivisection, the so-called protection of animals. It is certainly not what many of us in this House, personally, would have liked (we think that the use of animals in testing is not only not good for animals, but it is not good for research or humans), but we cannot fail to recognise, and we thank those who have cooperated, that significant progress has been made in transposing the directive. I want to say this: it could be the first time (and it does not happen frequently) that Italy can be a leading country, even for other European countries. In fact, the rules, which we hope this House will approve, are rules that allow us to be an advanced point of reference: and I want to say that here. It is clear that this is also a cultural battle, a cultural passage that we must make in order to overcome that anthropocentrism that did not bring good to the planet. And those who have been involved in animal welfare for years, with passion, can say that it is nothing else from the well-being of people. Let us always remember this, because the well-being of the human species is linked to the ability to be in harmony with other living beings. If the Senate succeeds in taking this step forward, it will really be an important moment, which will be able to give significant signals for research and science that are truly ethically responsible and that look at the welfare of humans and all living beings. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u55	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time Parliament is called upon to examine the draft law for the transposition of European directives and the implementation of other acts of the European Union in accordance with the new procedures laid down in Law No 234 of 2012. It should be stressed that the approval of documents is of particular importance, in the light of the non-approval of the two Community laws for 2011 and 2012 and, of course, in the light of the consequent delays in Italy's implementation of its obligations as a member of the Union. I would remind you, as the technical report of the measure points out, that, in the event of failure or erroneous transposition of European obligations, sanctions are divided into two headings: a penalty, ranging from EUR 10,000 to EUR 600,000, for each day of delay following the judgment of the Court of First Instance of the European Court of Justice; a lump sum of more than EUR 8 million, sanctioning the continuation of the infringement between the first judgment and the second of the Court of Justice, in accordance with Article 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The rapporteurs outlined the articles on which the debate in the Commission focused, and on which we will come back later. I would now like to focus on a fundamental political consideration of Italy's participation in the European Union. Yesterday was a good day for Italians: the fact that Barroso announced the exit from the deficit procedure and promised greater flexibility for the next budgets for countries with accounts in order, like Italy, means that the sacrifices that the citizens and citizens of our country have made have served. All together we avoided a resounding but announced economic collapse and we resumed our destiny. It must be recognized that President Napolitano and President Monti have been able to ferry the country overcoming numerous and insidious rocks; today it is up to the Letta Government and its majority not to waste the opportunity to make strategic investments for growth, remaining in European parameters. Civic Choice for Italy will strive for this to happen. Schroeder said that structural reforms can only work together with a growth trajectory. We all know that growth actions with the necessary breath can only be set and set in motion at European level, strengthening and pushing further the integration processes that have begun to take shape precisely with the crisis. In fact, such results are not achieved, as we have experienced in recent years, while maintaining strong intergovernmental governance as it is at present. Even French President Hollande seems to have finally noticed this and seems to want to abandon the Europe of the Patries of his predecessors in order to put France on the road to supranational integration. However, as Giuliano Amato pointed out some time ago, we would be inadequate to understand the reasons of others, if we did not realize that others can read about us not only the size of the debt, but also the extent of the defects by which the debt grew, while not increasing to the same extent a GDP capable of supporting it. The financial and international origins of the crisis must not make us forget that in Italy, more than in other countries, cyclical developments overlap with serious structural weaknesses well before the same crisis. I would just like to give an example: there is too little funding for school construction. Minister Carrozza rightly complained a short time ago that our children are in dilapidated schools and, at times, even insecure. However, as you yourself noted, what happened to those few million allocated by CIPE three years ago? Why of those few million allocated by CIPE three years ago not a third has been employed so far? Why? And why the tax credits, decided by law several months ago, for certain types of investment are still on paper, waiting to no longer know what implementing measure, stopping works that could have started long ago? Let's face it. The reforms to spend less on pensions we have been able to do; those to be more efficient and perhaps, when appropriate, spend more, are still waiting and, even if we say so, we pay the cost of the unfinished reforms. In our country, as we have seen in recent days, investing ends up being a gamble rather than the essential vocation of an entrepreneur and, less than ever, the essential vocation of foreign entrepreneurs, who in our country try to come as little as possible. We have a chance today to catch up. We have a chance to do it quickly and do it right. In the course of the electoral campaign and also in recent months, we of Civic Choice for Italy have been busy repeating that today the fundamental watershed of Italian politics is no longer the one between the old left and the old right: the real discrimination is between those who want to take the opportunity offered by the crisis to trigger a process of rapid alignment of Italy with the best European standards and those who think instead that this project is intentional, that the plan to adapt Italy to the Europe that works best is unrealizable, because Italy is different and because in Italy these things cannot be done. We remain of the opinion that even in Italy these things, and many others, can be done, and that they can be done quickly and well. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and the Senators Chiti and Cociancich.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u57	Senator Taverna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to speak after many other parties have already spoken. I am also intervening on Directive No 63 of 2010. When I hear that the goal that has been achieved with the amendment tabled by the rapporteur would be good for the fight against animal testing, I am quite surprised. Let us make a small excursus, if only because this should be a Parliament representing the Italian people. It should then be remembered that, according to an ISPRA survey, 87 per cent of the population view animal testing as a practice completely contrary to our way of feeling and sensitivity. Yet Directive No 63 of 2010 lays down a new regulation on animal testing: it is a regulation on which I personally have been critical because, by carefully studying the text, we realize that its statements of principle, which may seem acceptable, are then systematically denied by an endless series of exceptions and derogations that almost completely empty its scope. It is useless then to complain because, when we started the parliamentary term in this Parliament, the deadline for transposition of the directive had already expired for two months. Not only has the directive been abandoned for two years, but there was also a peremptory deadline - on 1 January 2013 - within which our country could have communicated to the European Union more guaranteed provisions in force. This has been done in a very limited way, because - probably - you were too busy destroying or letting destroy what remains of our social state: you forgot the deadline and remembered to fly four lines to avoid at least the barbarism that provided for experimentation on stray dogs and cats (because that is what the European directive that we are implementing provides). So Europe commands and Italy obeys. I have heard the mouth of this Europe filled here, but what we do is simply to obey what we are told, because there is none of those who represent us who really defend our interests and our views. Gentlemen, we've learned to meet you. We can read between the lines and there are great falsehoods in the statements you make precisely on the basis of this amendment, which serve only to put a piece to the laxity in which this country is now forced to live. In fact, the threat of the infringement arises and the omnipotence of the god of money is suddenly discovered, which, however, is of no value when it comes to fines for infringements such as those relating to Europe 7 and milk quotas. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Instead, it is an insurmountable constraint when it comes to defending the rights of animals. We have tabled three amendments. The only one that really in many of my Group we would like to see welcomed is the one with which we choose the coherence and courage of ethical choices, sending back to the sender a regulation that provided, in its original draft, the reuse of the same animal. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It allows quiet breeding and experimentation on dogs, cats, monkeys and endangered animals; hypocritically, in its recitals, it recognizes the diversity of attitude towards animals, linking it to the different national perception (but we are no longer a nation), but forbidding, then, the European peoples most guaranteed, the exercise of the sacred right to be able to truly protect their friends (Article 2). We look with suffering at the animalist associations that accept with gratitude at least that they have been prevented from breeding and war experiments, but we are outraged because we know that, when the letter b) of the amendment speaks of "orienting" it does not mean anything: it does not make any sense, it is an empty word. And I find it shameful what happened in 14a. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Have you been pleased to read the amendments we have tabled? If you had, you might have noticed that they had been studied. They proposed procedures to ensure, to monitor, to give transparency and seriousness and were simply asking to avoid what is not scientifically necessary. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] There was nothing of that populism that you love to fill your mouth with to justify our existence, without having the courage to recognize that this is mainly due to your total failure. But it was certainly easier for you to agree. You agreed, and I ended up in 14th. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The amendments of PD, PdL, SEL and Civic Choice have therefore been withdrawn immediately, and only the League has asked for a moment and to be able to discuss them. But it was easier to make it all go away. We have, however, read very well the rapporteur's amendment which you have adopted with great relief. We do not tell you what it says (even colleagues who welcomed it said that it is not so revolutionary), but we tell you what it does not say. There is absolutely no obligation to replace scientifically satisfactory methods of using live animals with those which do not. When you don't write there's an obligation, it means you don't have to do anything! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The obligation of prior authorisation that the Ministry of Health is required to give for each project involving the use of animals has been removed, limiting this provision only to those projects involving dogs, cats and primates. So for this class, there are A-series animals and B-series animals. It has been forbidden exclusively to breed non-human primates, allowing their free trade and sale. So, we're not going to experiment on Italian specimens, we're going to experiment on Argentine ones. The precise quota has been eliminated. You never have any money. We told you: our proposal laid down 10% of the funds for the search for alternative methods and you replaced it with the words - they make it funny - 'generic share of national and European funds determined in accordance with public finance constraints'. Nothing! The retrospective evaluation of projects has been completely ignored. Exercises are allowed, courses are optional, there is no requirement for a minimum annual number of inspections without notice: we notify them and then we make inspections. Obligation to report annually to the Ministry statistics on animals born, sold, dead. Publication of procedures. Participation of animal associations. And there would be so much more, but I think what I said is enough and leftovers. We understand the fear of those who fear that any proxy criteria will be lost and even more we understand the terror of those who fear especially those who in Italy are called to make the decisions: you. Personally, accepting this umpteenth outrage, playing down, at least worse, only leads me to think that unfortunately the animals do not vote and cannot defend themselves in this House [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Repetti]] , because they are not considered as worthy of our intelligent and conscious species, because I moved only by instinct and not by reason. And if reason, however, also means common sense, if humanity means not cold logic but also courage to know how to make ethical choices, then, in my opinion, those animals are more human than those who will sacrifice them in this vote, not to research, but to the free market and to the simple saving of business costs! I therefore leave it to your conscience to establish on this page who are the true beasts. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Repetti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u60	Mr President, we believe that Europe, in its complexity but also in its greatness of ideals, of substance, and therefore of values, needs calmness, never as at this time, never as in this year in which a number of decisions will be taken, a number of important appointments will be centered. I believe that Europe, Mr President, we look with confidence, often with circumspectness, at other times with distrust. These are feelings that force reflection. There will be reasons, there will be a reason why such states of mind permeate the character of the people, individual citizens and local communities with regard to the presence, the perception of this extraordinary entity as the Union, the old and dear European Community, as it was called after the dawn of the famous MEC, the European Common Market. Often, Mr President, fellow senators and senators, the idea of Europe seems distant, distant. Many times, in everyday practice, the idea that we receive of the political, legal, economic and financial entity of Europe is far from the European ideal: the one to which my generation and subsequent generations have been educated, beginning with the school books, on which our dream of a united continent has been exercised, strong, able to play the game of security and peace between its Member States and between the nations of the world. Well, Mr President, through the transposition of the European delegation law, Parliament regains its central role, to which - I repeat - we hold: we are the representatives of the people and the people expect us to exercise our full right to criticize Europe, but also to value its points of extraordinary excellence. We are convinced that, through this path that is being consumed here today, which is a collective path, everyone - everyone for his part, everyone for his culture and political sensitivity - will be able to make an extraordinary contribution, which in my opinion can be even more valued if we look together at the European ideal in terms of opportunities. With these sentiments I conclude my speech, stressing that these are the commitments that the Italian Parliament, and the Senate in particular, entrusts to the Government to exercise its full capacity for persuasion, but also its capacity to be in Europe with great dignity. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u62	Mr President, Minister, today's debate on the measures in the vote is an opportunity to rethink our country's relationship both in terms of compliance with EU participation, in particular regarding the prevention and resolution of infringement procedures, and in relation to the structural funds allocated to our country and its non-use. This is also in relation to the undisputed success that the Letta Government has achieved in terms of greater budgetary flexibility from next year on for countries out of the excessive deficit procedure like ours, which shows how the assumption of determined and authoritative positions towards Europe allows the achievement of forward-looking goals. The relative number of infringement proceedings against Italy, which have now exceeded 100, both because of the violation of EU law and because of the failure to transpose directives, must in fact induce all of us to reflect on the timing and the appropriate ways of lawmaking of the legislative assemblies, taken in line with the Community guidelines and even more with a clear and organic vision to which the Regions must also conform. Beyond isolated but increasingly frequent anti-European positions that cross certain associations in Italy and in the rest of Europe, a process of strengthening and European integration is inescapable, where Italy can and must represent a pivotal role for the economic and social growth and sustainability of our continent. Economic growth must absolutely represent a political and moral obligation towards the Italian people and it is essential, in this regard, to rethink necessarily the management of European funds and their rapid and efficient expenditure to ensure development and employment. The data for the European programming cycle 2007-2013 indicate an expenditure of around EUR 20 billion of 37.5 percent, i.e. below the minimum threshold of 40% of the total resources allocated to our country, which places us in a critical situation compared to the serious economic crisis that we are going through and the construction of the new Community and regional programming that will reach until 2020. At this moment, therefore, Italy is contributing to the financing of Europe, but from the funds that Europe allocates in our favour we are not able to spend and invest properly the planned amounts. We must therefore provide for measures to simplify bureaucratic procedures which can speed up intervention, guaranteeing the quality and selectivity of expenditure, as well as action on regions which are lagging behind in structural investment under the various territorial plannings to avoid the possibility of returning resources and in order to ensure employment development and growth in the framework of operational, national and regional programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, the approval of the texts in this House today must be a first step towards a new and more constructive relationship between Italy and Europe in respect of mutual cooperation and the most incisive social and economic integration. Finally, I would like to express a grave concern regarding Article 26 of Law No 588, relating to animal testing, on which, as a convinced animalist, I can only express my support for the text that has been hesitated. As a cardiologist, however, I have concerns: in various countries, including Italy, pork heart valves are used for the biological replacement of human heart valves; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the improvement of the quality of life that this method entails, I would not like it to be abandoned or abolished in our country as a result of the law that we are about to approve. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u63	The joint general debate is closed. The speakers, Senators Tarquinio, Cociancich, Giovanni Mauro and Cardinali, renounce to intervene in reply. I communicate that motions for resolutions No 1, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other Senators, No 2, tabled by Senator Morra and other Senators, and No 3, tabled by Senator Zanda and other Senators, have been received by the Presidency. I call on the Minister for European Affairs, Professor Moavero Milanesi, to whom I would also like to point out which of the motions for resolutions the Government intends to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u64	Mr President, Senators and Senators, allow me to thank you for the interesting debate that has taken place in this House today, as well as for the fruitful work that has taken place in the 14th session. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I believe that the debate has highlighted the essential elements of the texts that are before us today, in particular the two legislative texts: on the one hand, these texts will allow at the end of the entire parliamentary legislative process - but they allow in the context of the current debate - to fully implement the commitments made by our country in the democratic participation in the legislative and institutional process of the European Union; on the other hand, this also allows us to identify a number of important junctions that are about to be introduced and can be introduced into our system on the basis of the legislation that we have helped to adopt in the framework of the European Union. The recovery of a delay has been called for by more intervening; a delay that had actually accumulated over the last few years due to the failure to complete the legislative process relating to the two Community laws of 2011 and 2012. Unfortunately, this delay was due to a previous delay which had characterized the legislative process of the Community law of 2010. In my opinion, these delays must make us think. In fact, the rules or implementing acts we are discussing stem from institutional mechanisms at European Union level in which our country is fully involved: it is involved because, within the legislative branch - Council, the Ministers of our Government participate, for the various issues, and it is involved because, in the legislative branch - European Parliament, members elected by universal suffrage in Italy participate. These are, therefore, rules which do not come from a metaphysical place, which can be defined as Europe or Brussels, but which arise from political and democratic discussions taking place in a Parliament elected by universal suffrage and in a Council where Ministers are involved identified through democratic procedures at the level of the various countries. The real problem, therefore, is not in the sometimes (or often) troubled, descending, transposition phase, what we are now experiencing, but in the preparation and attention to the ascending phase, the stage in which the rules are formed in the European Union. In this regard, Law 234 of December 2012, which has innovated the previous legislation, has made Parliament much more central and much more involved in participation in the so-called ascending phase, the one in which - I repeat - the Ministers of the Government participate in the Council of the European Union in the discussion and adoption of the directives that, subsequently, must be transposed. As you know, the parliamentary committees have the opportunity to convene ministers before they participate in the Councils in the European Union and can hear them later to understand what happened and, of course, to give guidelines. I think it is a very important option that is left to Parliament. I repeat: it is at the stage of drafting and adopting the rules at European level that all those issues of particular relevance to national law should be raised, which will then have to be transposed in such a way that they are kept in mind or, if necessary, not present, but always through a process of democracy. Discover the problems related to European legislation when it was adopted and it needs to be discussed for transposition - certainly with room for manoeuvre, but still limited - it is late. To discover them even after transposition, as is often the case, is still later. Democratic participation and the protection of the interests of the country and the citizens take place through the ascending phase and - I repeat - through the control that Parliament can exercise - with the reinforced instrument of the aforementioned law n. 234 - on the Government when participating in the legislative phase in Europe, as well as through the contacts that Parliament can and, in my humble opinion, should maintain with the Italian members of the European Parliament, in order to ensure a dynamic of functional transmission belt. During the debate, I also heard an emphasis on the inevitably omnibus nature of legislative measures of this kind. However, Law 234 once again addresses the need to deal with specific European measures of particular importance or complexity: another option which lies in the hands of Parliament. Therefore, it may be appropriate, also for reasons of economics of parliamentary work, to group together the various provisions and implementing acts in the legislative instruments of European law and of the law of European delegation, but for the more complex and complex situations, ad hoc vehicles can be identified and requested by the Parliament of the ad hoc forums of debate. It's a faculty I think you can use when you think it's appropriate. Certainly the adoption of the provisions contained in the two legislative instruments submitted to you today for your vote and debate will enable us to close an important number of infringement procedures to European standards (about twenty, to be precise), as well as to avoid others which would have taken place or which would have taken place if the measures were not adopted. I remind you - but, of course you know - that Italy is the country that has the most infringement procedures. It is not a question of philosophical dissensions: they are concrete procedures that determine situations of illegality for our country, which can eventually result in financial penalties. We have freely accepted this mechanism by adhering to the institutional system before the European Community, which has been mentioned, and subsequently to the European Union. It is not, therefore, yet again about exogenous impositions, but about participation in systems to which we democratically and freely adhere. It is clear that delays in the implementation of legislation, infringements, delays in the use of European funds and in spending lead to a total reduction in the reliability of our country's credibility in European fora. If we really want Italy, regardless of governments and ministers, to count in Europe, we must understand the rules of a game to which we have joined - I repeat again, because we must remember it - democratically and freely. Moving within the framework of the rules means not simply accepting other rules, but instead having the opportunity to discuss, share and influence the adoption of rules and policy guidelines. Some of you have wished to recall the importance of what we have once again focused on yesterday following the statements made by the President of the European Commission, who merely followed up on the decisions taken by the European Council, which were repeated several times (the first time in December 2012, a second time in March 2013, a third time in June 2013), namely that flexibility allowed by the rules, although strict, on the health of public accounts that allows to make productive public investments, especially during this period of growth. Well, let me say that this important achievement made precisely by the Heads of State and Government has been greatly stimulated by the Italian initiative. Just as it was on Italian initiative that in February 2012 we began to talk about growth and employment at European level. Just as it was thanks to a strong stimulus of Italian initiative that the funds available for combating the scourge of youth unemployment were increased at the European Council last week. We can therefore assert ourselves at the level of the European Union, influence the decision-making and political processes of the European Union by going with clear ideas, carefully, diligently and authoritatively (sometimes abused word), but above all we must present ourselves with the papers on compliance. I believe that with the step we are about to take with the parliamentary examination of the two draft laws we are moving in that direction in relation to legislative transpositions. For this I thank the Senate once again. As regards the motion for a resolution which the Government accepts, pursuant to paragraph 7 of Rule 144-a of the Rules of Procedure, this is the one indicated as proposal No 3. However, the Government wishes to state that many, not to say the great majority, of the aspects contained in the other two motions for resolutions find it consenting. [[Applause from the PD, SCP, For Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u65	Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for a resolution No 3, the 45-minute deadline for tabling any amendments to it is now in force. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on draft laws no. 587 and 588 and the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u66	The first Commission, having examined the text proposed to the Assembly by the Commission on the substance of draft law No 587, and the amendments relating thereto, shall, as far as its competence is concerned, deliver a non-obstacle opinion. The first Commission, having examined the text proposed to the Assembly by the Commission on the substance of draft law No 588, shall, as far as its competence is concerned, deliver a non-obstacle opinion. Having also examined the relevant amendments, it shall, as far as it is competent, express the following opinions: - on amendment 26,200, which is not an obstacle, provided that: (a) in paragraph 2, the opinion of ISPRA, provided for therein, is not binding; (b) in paragraph 4, the provision for the payment of a regional tax for the exercise of the derogation is deleted, as it is detrimental to the constitutionally recognized financial autonomy of the Regions; (c) in paragraph 5, the second period shall be deleted, since the rule provided for therein confers exclusive powers on the Region to the State, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution; d) Paragraph 6 is deleted, as it seems more reasonable - and compatible with the respective areas of competence of the State and the Regions - the procedure provided for in Article 26, paragraph 2, paragraph "Art. - on amendments 26,201 and 26,100, on condition that the opinion of the ISPRA provided for therein is not binding; - that, as regards Article 1, paragraph 4, the use of the Rotation Fund referred to in Article 5 of Law No 183 of 1987 for the coverage of expenditure not provided for by the legislation in force, and in any case only within the limits of the needs related to the implementation of the Directives referred to in Annexes A and B, is exceptional in nature and covers in any case a limited number of directives among those transposed; - that, in relation to Article 3, paragraph 1, point (d), the activities related to the implementation of the resources provided for in existing legislation can be strengthened; - that, as regards Article 8, it allows the repeal of rules no longer applied due to their incompatibility with the legislation of the European Union and that therefore there will be no adverse effects on the revenue; - that, compared to Article 11, the possible higher costs on the Bank of Italy and CONSOB, the total cost of any obligation to be financed under the provisions of the European Union and therefore not resulting from the specific provisions of the directive; The opinion is opposed to Article 4 (1) (c) and (e) and Article 5. With regard to Article 12, the opinion is contrary, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to paragraph 1 (a), (l) and (m), while, on the remainder of the article, the opinion is contrary. The opinion is also made with the following observation: as regards Directive 2012/52/EU, there is a need to ensure the financial neutrality of the recognition of medical recipes at European level with respect to the obligations of reimbursement of the cost of medicinal products charged by the National Health System, it seems essential that the invariance of the charges be confirmed by the competent Administration before the conclusion of the procedure of the measure in this branch of the Parliament. With regard to the amendments, the opinion is opposed, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to proposals 6,101 and 6,102. On Amendment 3.0.3 the non-obstacle opinion is conditional, in accordance with the same constitutional rule, on the inclusion of a clause of financial invariance. On amendment 12,100, the opinion is contrary, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, to paragraph 1 (a), (f), and (p), as well as to paragraphs 3 and 4, while the opinion is simply contrary to paragraph 1 (n) and (t). On Amendment 12,101 the opinion is contrary, in accordance with the same constitutional rule, to paragraph 1, points (a), (f), (m) and (p), while it is simply contrary to paragraph 1, points (n) and (t). On the remaining amendments, the opinion is of no importance. The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the further amendment 3.0.4 (text 2) submitted by the Assembly, gives an opinion of nothing conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the inclusion of a clause of financial invariance. - the rotation fund for the implementation of Community policies provides for the effective availability of resources used to cover Article 13 (2) (a); - amendments to the tax monitoring framework contained in Article 9 - and in particular paragraph 1 (c), paragraph "Art. 4', paragraph 2, which introduces a withholding tax of 20% on income deriving from foreign investments and financial activities - do not result in a decrease in revenue, compared to the current legislation. The opinion is also given under the following condition, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution: in Article 24 (2) the following words are inserted at the end: "without additional costs for public finance and in compliance with the principle of invariance of expenditure." It should also be noted that: - with reference to Article 13 - which extends the list of beneficiaries of the allowance for large households - the literal wording of the coverage referred to in paragraph 2 (a) to the Rotation Fund for the implementation of Community policies does not appear entirely in accordance with the accounting principles in force; - the coverage referred to in Article 13 (2) (c), absorbing almost half of the appropriation entered, from 2014, on the National Fund for Social Policies, exposes to the risk of reducing further interventions financed by the same Fund; - the recourse, provided for by the same Article 13 (2) (d), to part of the eight per thousand IRPEF of State responsibility, represents the perpetuation of a practice based on the use of such appropriations for purposes different from the law establishing the mechanism of the eight per thousand; - Article 30 - which allows the establishment of further sections in the territorial Commissions for the recognition of international protection - bears a covered burden on the budget on resources which should result entirely committed by the current legislation. With regard to the amendments, it takes the view that, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, proposals 26,200 (already 27.1), 26,204 (already 27.10), 33.200 (already 35.2), 33.201 (already 35.6), 33.202 (analogous to 35.10), 33.203 (already 35.9), 33.204 (already 35.13). The opinion was opposed to proposals 34.0.200 (already 36.0.1) and 34.0.100. There are no comments on the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u67	I note that the final vote on both draft laws and motion for a resolution No. 3, accepted by the Government, will take place at the end of the joint explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u68	Mr President, Amendment 1.4 is very simple in its content. The whole Directive on animal testing is to be completely eliminated.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u69	The agendas presented are set out in detail. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u70	I am opposed to amendment 1.4 and to the G1,100 and G1,101 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u71	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u72	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u73	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 240 Senators voting 238 Majority 120 Favorables 49 Contrari 175 Absent 14]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1.100 and G.1.101 (correct text) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 238 Senators voting 236 Majority 119 Favourites 233 Contrars 1 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u76	Mr Lucherini (PD). Mr President, I wanted to say that I was unable to vote in the previous vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u77	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 244 Senators voting 240 Majority 121 Favorable 236 Contrars 2 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u80	VACCIANO (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to point out that there was a mistake: my vote was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u83	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). I have not been able to vote before.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u86	CAMPANELLA (M5S). Me too, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u89	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I would like to make one correction: on Amendment 1.4, our vote was against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u90	I beg the Senators Secretary to take note of that. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 3, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u91	Mr President, Amendment 3.0.4 (text 2) is intended to commit the Government, in granting the delegation, to revise the electricity tariffs in order to make them more suitable for an open market. Just yesterday we approved the incentives for the use of heat pumps and an adjustment of the more appropriate electricity tariffs to the market will certainly go in the direction of pushing the use of these types of instruments. So it is a way to make our country take another step towards modernization and also - incidentally - to favour families with many children who need to use more electricity than others.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u92	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u93	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u94	Mr President, my opinion is against Amendment 3.2 and the G3100 agenda. I then amend Amendment 3.0.3 (correct text), including the cost invariance clause, and I support Amendment 3.0.4 (text 2) where it is amended in the same way.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u97	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Mr President, I would like to rephrase Amendment 3.0.4 (text 2) in the sense indicated by the rapporteur. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The text of the amendments, which become 3.0.3 (text 2) and 3.0.4 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u98	Mr President, the opinion is in line with the rapporteur's opinion on Amendment 3.2 and on the G3.100 agenda. On amendments 3.0.3 (text 2) and 3.0.4 (text 3) the Government returns to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u101	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment 3.0.4 (text 3), by Senator Dalla Zuanna.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u102	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 252 Senators voting 250 Majority 126 Favorables 70 Contrars 180]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. I would ask the presenter if he would insist on voting on the agenda for G3.100. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G3100 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G3100 agenda presented by the Senator-Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 249 Majority 125 Favorables 16 Contrari 233]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 249 Majority 125 Favorables 192 Contrars 48 Absent 9]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u105	Mr Maturani (PD). Mr President, I wanted to point out that, during the previous vote, I was unable to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u106	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.3 (text 2) identical to Amendment 3.0.4 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u109	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, on behalf of myself and my group, I would like to add the signature to Amendment 3.0.4 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u112	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u113	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.0.3 (text 2) tabled by the rapporteur, which is identical to Amendment 3.0.4 (text 3) tabled by Senator Dalla Zuanna and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 252 Senators voting 250 Majority 126 Favorable 195 Contrari 55]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4. I'll put it to a vote. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is outlined and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u114	I call on the presenter to withdraw amendment 5,100. Otherwise, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u115	Mr President, the Government is returning to this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u116	I ask Senator Candiani if he accepts the invitation to withdraw his amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u117	Mr President, I insist on the vote on Amendment 5,100, which, in itself, simply proposes the original wording. In this case, we believe that the Government's proposal was better than the Commission's text.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u118	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u121	SANTANGELO (M5S). We are calling for a roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u122	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 5,100 tabled by Senator Candiani. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 248 Majority 125 Favorables 19 Contrari 227 Absent 2]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. I put to the vote Rule 5. It's approved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u123	Mr President, in agreement with Senator Manconi, I withdraw Amendments 6,101 and 6,102.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u124	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on Amendment 6,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u125	Mr President, I would ask Senator Candiani to withdraw Amendment 6,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u126	Does Senator Candiani accept the rapporteur's invitation? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No, Mr. President. Mr Tarquinio, rapporteur on draft law No 587. If so, I am against Amendment 6,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u127	Mr President, the Government is returning to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u128	Since only amendment 6,100 is left, which deletes Article 6, we shall proceed to the vote on the maintenance of Article 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on the maintenance of Article 6. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 253 Senators voting 251 Majority 126 Favorables 240 Contrars 8 Absent 3]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the examination of the following articles. I put to the vote Rule 7. It's approved. I put to the vote Rule 8. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 9, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u129	Mr President, at this time when we are talking about bureaucracy sburocratization, simplification and slimming down, we are setting up a new register (of which firms were strongly lacking...), the costs of which will be borne by operators, thus creating another leap. With Amendment 9,200 I wondered if it would not be possible to implement other existing registers, such as the register of companies already established under Law 580 of 1993.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u130	The remainder of the amendment is set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u131	Mr President, I am opposed to Amendment 9,200 and to Amendment 9,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u132	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 9,100. With regard to amendment 9,200, in the debate in the Commission, the Government had been asked to go into more detail. The result of the deepening is that if the words "on the basis of the data" were preceded by the word "also" the Government could express a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u133	Senator Gaetti, do you accept the reformulation? GAETTI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u134	At this point the rapporteur, who had given an opinion against it, in the light of the Government's opinion and the acceptance of the amendment, intends to revise his opinion or confirm his opinion against it?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u135	I am in favour of amendment 9,200 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u136	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9,200 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I will always ask for an electronic vote. Please pay attention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sometimes I get distracted and proceed with the vote by show of hands. I'll be more careful. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9,200 (text 2) tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 248 Senators voting 247 Majority 124 Favorables 245 Contrars 1 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u139	PAGNONCELLI (PdL). Mr President, I would like to point out that the system has not registered my vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u140	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9,100 tabled by Senator Council. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 246 Senators voting 244 Majority 123 Favorable 243 Contrars 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u143	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, the voting mechanism did not work and I would like to point out that my vote was in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the G9.100 agenda, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u144	The opinion was in favour of the G9.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u145	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u146	Having been accepted by the Government, the G9.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9 in the amended text. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 9 in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 247 Majority 124 Favorable 243 Contrars 1 Absent 3]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 10, on which an agenda has been tabled, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u147	The opinion supports the adoption as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u148	As a recommendation, the government accepts it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u149	Senator Scilipoti, do you insist on voting? SCILIPOTI (PdL). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Therefore, the G10.100 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. I put to the vote Rule 10. [[Senator Santangelo's notes.]] Senator Santangelo, the vote is already underway. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11. I'll put it to a vote. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 12, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u150	I would like to make a very brief comment on Amendments Nos 12,100 and 12,101 which, if adopted, would make sense of the rapporteur's amendment. These are amendments which have not been rejected, but which have been rejected in the Commission. We therefore ask this House to take a moment's view of this and to realize what it is voting for.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u151	Then there is the rapporteur's amendment 12,300, to which I would ask the President of the Budget Commission, Senator Azzollini, to give the opinion, pursuant to Rule 100 (7) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u152	Mr President, on Amendment No 12,300 the opinion is simply void. Amendments 12,900 and 12,901 basically contain a condition under Article 81 of the Constitution for the acceptance of the letters l) and m) of paragraph 1 of the article and thus represent a new writing of the two texts. I place them as a condition that it is intended to be observed in the event that the rapporteur should accept this rewording. These are two complex issues - on which I would like to have a minimum of attention from my fellow Members - which I felt useful to put before the House's vision.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u153	Excuse me, President Azzollini, I would ask you for clarification, even for the offices. We are referring to Senator Taverna's amendments 12,100 and 12,101. We do not know what other amendments were tabled on 12,900 and 12,901. You are expressing an opinion on something that has not been presented. I repeat, there are only 12,100 and 12,101 amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u154	Mr President, your point is correct. In any event, these are the two conditions for an opinion to be given by the Budget Commission on points (l) and (m) of paragraph 1 of Article 12.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u155	However, I repeat, we are discussing Amendments Nos 12,100 and 12,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u156	Mr President, the conditions I have laid down are in relation to the opinion of the Budget Committee, which expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution on points l and m. In this House, at the request of the rapporteur, the Committee on Budgets gives its opinion of no obstacle to the adoption of a rewording of the amendments which I have referred to as a condition.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u157	It is a delicate passage, on which I invite the rapporteur to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u158	With Senator Azzollini we have already discussed the subject. I have with me, already prepared and signed, the texts that fully accept the indications of President Azzollini to overcome the impasse relating to the points on which remarks have been made pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So this is a reformulation. Mr Tarquinio, rapporteur on draft law No 587. It is a rewording of points (l) and (m) of paragraph 1 of Article 12. PRESIDENT. - The debate is A rewording that would be proposed with amendments 12,900 and 12,901.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u161	TAVERNA (M5S). I don't know what this reformulation is. If possible, I would like to be made aware of this, also to express my opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u162	You're absolutely right. I therefore suspend the sitting for five minutes to allow the Groups to take a look at the proposed reformulation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . (The sitting was suspended at 12.49 p.m. and resumed at 12.57). Colleagues, I suspend the session again for a few minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 12.57 p.m. and resumed at 12.59 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I'm begging colleagues to take their seats.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u165	Mr Tarquinio, rapporteur on draft law No 587. Mr President, the rapporteur's opinion on Amendments Nos 12,100 and 12,101 is against. On points (l) and (m) of paragraph 1 of Article 12, I tabled two amendments, which were distributed on 12,900 and 12,901, accepting the comments of the Budget Commission. Finally, Amendment 12,400 proposes the deletion of point (a) of the same paragraph, the text of which is included on agenda G12,700.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u166	At this point, in addition to the vote on Amendments Nos 12,100, 12,101 and 12,300, we shall be voting on Amendments Nos 12,400, 12,900 and 12,901, proposed by the rapporteur, which comply with the guidelines set out in the opinion of the Budget Commission with regard to points (a), (l) and (m) respectively. With reference to the comments made by the Budget Commission under point (a), there is then a rapporteur's agenda for dealing with this matter. I call on the Government representative, who has had the patience to follow the complex process, to express his opinion on the amendments and on the agenda to Rule 12.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u167	With regard to the aspects which were the subject of further discussion in this House, the deletion of point (a) and the rewording of points (l) and (m), which were carried out by the rapporteur's amendments 12,400, 12,900 and 12,901 respectively, the opinion was in favour. The opinion was also in favour of amendment 12,400. As regards the rapporteur's agenda, Mr G12,700, following the deletion of point (a), if that is the conclusion, we are also in favour. On the other hand, with regard to Amendments Nos 12,100 and 12,101, in accordance with the Commission's work and the balance achieved, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion, which is therefore contrary.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u170	Mr Azzollini (PdL). Mr President, of course, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to express my opinion on the rapporteur's amendments 12,900 and 12,901, which fully and fully transpose the condition of the 5th Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The opinion adds to the opinion on amendment 12,300, which has already been expressed earlier.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u171	Let us move on to amendment 12,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 12,100 tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 245 Senators voting 242 Majority 122 Favorables 46 Contrars 173 Absent 23]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u174	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I believe I have seen that my vote has been abstaining, while I wish to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u175	I take note of that. Let us move on to Amendment 12,101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 12,101 tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 247 Senators voting 246 Majority 124 Favorables 46 Contrars 174 Absent 26]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. I put to the vote Amendment No 12,400, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. I put to the vote Amendment No 12,300, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12.900. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 12,900 tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 245 Senators voting 242 Majority 122 Favorables 185 Contrars 37 Absent 20]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12,901. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 12,901 tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 247 Majority 124 Favorables 205 Contrars 14 Absent 28]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. As the agenda for 12,700 was accepted by the Government, it will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12 in the amended text.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u176	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u178	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, I would like to make this explanation of vote. Of course, I am glad that, at least with the approved amendment, the veterinarians are allowed to work on animals, which was not foreseen in the original text. However, I completely disagree that with this measure it is said to research on xenotraplants in Italy, which, I remember, concern biological cardiac valves and - therefore millions of people - and cancer cell transplants from a patient to animals to carry out the research to be applied on man. I am also opposed to the ban on research into substance abuse, which means that treatment for drug addicts can no longer be tested on rats. I am also opposed to banning the breeding of animals that serve as guinea pigs. Having said that, I announce that my vote on the article will be in favour only because paragraph 2 of this article, which delegates the Government by referring to European legislation, will allow Italy to do all those things that in the first part of the article we want, in a sudden way, to prohibit. Fortunately, there are European and international regulations and with Article 12 we say that the Government, in the legislative decree, will not be able to foresee things contrary to European legislation. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u181	PADUA (PD). Mr President, I would like my vote in favour of the previous vote to remain in the Minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u183	Do you intend to speak in an explanation of vote? BOTTICS (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. And for what reason? BOTTICS (M5S). When we voted, my vote in favour appeared, but I wanted to make it clear that I wanted to abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u184	Try to be more precise in the votes. Anyway, I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u185	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u187	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I rise for an explanation of vote in full in favour of Rule 12, as reworded. It is the maximum point of fall that we have been able to achieve in order to settle all instances, ethical and moral, including the possibility of banning xenotransplants of organs, but not parts of them. It's amazing that someone still has doubts about pig valves. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u190	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, we are asking for the correction of the vote in the previous vote. IN THE CHAIR: MR GALLAND Vice-President We have noted that. ENDRIZZI (M5S). But, I'm sorry if you don't know how...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u191	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u193	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, on these explanations of vote, I ask the House whether it is legitimate to say things that are currently not correct. I invite anyone to enter the heart surgery rooms now and to quantify how many biological valves are currently in use. The biological valves, as you all know, besides giving problems of rejection, infections and endocarditis, also have another drawback: they are not durable, so they expose the patient undergoing this surgery to the need to repeat it most of the times: and intervening on the heart is never a simple intervention. Instead, thanks to Heaven and the technical and scientific innovation that proposes us new materials and new technologies, there are now artificial valves that do not have these drawbacks and therefore are, in fact, for life; the only drawback is the continuous administration of anticoagulants and antiaggregants to the subjects who are subjected to these interventions, but it is a use that is made for preventive purposes also in case of biological valves. I would like to take this opportunity, even if perhaps inappropriate, to resume Senator Giovanardi for a moment with reference to statements he made this morning about the vote. I would like to point out, on behalf of the entire 5 Star Movement, that his statements in defense of vivisection and animal experimentation and their conclusions are incorrect in content and substance. In order to use the same example as you mentioned in this House, Mr Giovanardi, that is, thalidomide, it is in fact history that this medicine did not produce foemelic children because it was not sufficiently tested on animals. In fact, after three years of animal testing, the "Chemie Grünenthal" marketed it as a harmless tranquilizer especially suitable for pregnant women, authorising its free sale without any medical prescription throughout Germany, with the slogan: Innocuous as a lump of sugar. Only after the teratological catastrophe that caused the birth of 10,000 Focomelic children in the world was it decided to experiment in a massive way, that is to say at very high doses on over 150 different breeds of rabbits, and they got only some Focomelic births, which gives the story a completely different sense, as is well understandable to anyone who does serious and coherent research. It should also be pointed out that if drugs were to be tested on a large number of animals they would all be withdrawn from the trade, because any drug, to date, has negative side effects on at least one animal species. I also remember in this context that we would not have drugs like aspirin, known to all and universally used, if we had only experienced it on animals. I would like to point out that the 5 Star Movement in these explanations of vote, regardless of ethical discourse, has adhered to scientific facts, objective and demonstrated. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Repetti]] In response to the expression of someone who claims to speak of science in this House, I invite him to update himself with the latest indications and the only scientific facts collected so far on recognized and objective articles (such as those published in "Medline") and not from the press, gossip or anything else. The 5 Star Movement has made an ethical vote, it is true, because it would like Italy to promote a choice that is forward and gives meaning and civilization to what we do, but based on scientific, objective and verified data. [[Comments from the PdL Group. Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u194	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u196	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rarely find myself in line with Senator Giovanardi's views, but today I have to say that I fully endorse his positions and his concerns. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] The problem here is complex, but we must certainly take into account that we should first respect the European directive on time, because otherwise we would put ourselves in a situation of shortage, deficit and inability to compete with the rest of the European economic system. So it's not just about wanting to be an animalist or not an animalist (I think I'm a convinced animalist, as I keep a few dozen animals in the family), but the problem is: if you don't do it on animals, what do you do? [[Applause from the PdL Group. Comments from the M5S Group.]] The necessary experimentation: not the degenerations, but the necessary one, the indispensable one. Experimentation, if you don't do it on animals, ends up being done on men. That's the point. I therefore call for strict compliance with the European directive and I would like to ask the Government to ensure that its measures do not deviate from the European directive. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u197	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u199	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, it would have been interesting to have this debate also in the relevant Commissions, where perhaps we could have gone further. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I simply want to say that we will, of course, vote in favour of Article 12, because we regard it as a step forward. We will of course continue to fight for the definitive overcoming of vivisection. According to the procedure - as I said earlier in my speech - the transposition of the directive is entrusted to the Government; it is about improvements and a very important contribution that we are making to Europe. I would like to say only one thing about all the scientific delicacies, very clear: every species is unique, the animal model is not comparable to man. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and precisely because of this error, not only so many animals, but also so many human lives have been sacrificed, among other things. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u200	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u201	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u202	SCILIPOTI (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to use this reflection to say that I will abstain from voting, unlike my Group, but I want to make a voiceful reflection so that all Members who are present in this House can actually understand the words that we use. I do not go into the substance of the question whether it is right to pursue the thesis of science or the thesis, as far as I am concerned, of conscience and for this very reason I will abstain. But it seems strange to me that someone has made a reflection attributing to Senator Giovanardi - who, and does not need to be defended - almost a sort of heresy. I would like to remind this House - particularly my colleagues representing the Left and the 5 Star Movement - that the 5 Star Movement has voted on animal testing within the Health Commission. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] You're from the banks of the M5S Group. What are you talking about? SCILIPOTI (PdL). So within the Commission, one thing is said... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u203	Thank you for your dissenting statement. Please finish, Senator Scilypoti.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u204	SCILIPOTI (PdL). I'll finish the sentence. So words are often improperly used, without realizing what is said. [[Ironic applause and comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u205	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u207	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u208	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 12 in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 252 Senators voting 251 Majority 126 Favorables 189 Contrars 33 Absent 29]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). (Senators Fornaro, De Biasi and Mirabelli informed the Presidency that they had voted in favour in the previous vote).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u209	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u211	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are voting on very important things... And we are doing so in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Rules of the Senate of the Republic. SANTANGELO (M5S). I would ask you to give me the right attention. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I will ask you for a simultaneous ballot on each individual vote. If it's a race for the fastest-paced, I'm gonna stand up on the bench to get his attention. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u212	This is not permitted by the Rules of Procedure. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask the rapporteur to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u213	Mr President, with amendment 3,300 it is proposed to replace in paragraph 3 the words "a special authorisation" with the following: "a specific authorisation".
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u214	I call on the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, to comment on this amendment, pursuant to Rule 100 (7) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u215	Mr President, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u216	I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u217	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u218	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,300. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask you for a roll-call vote, by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3,300 tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 249 Majority 125 Favorable 248 Contrars 1]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3 in the amended text. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 3 in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 249 Senators voting 248 Majority 125 Favorables 200 Contrars 1 Absent 47]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I will raise my hand, stand up and, I repeat, if you consider it appropriate, I will also stand on the bench. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Just raise your hand. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 253 Senators voting 249 Majority 125 Favorables 200 Absent 49]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 5. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 254 Senators voting 252 Majority 127 Favorable 203 Absent 49]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 6. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 252 Senators voting 249 Majority 125 Favourites 201 Absent 48]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u219	Mr President, the opinion is against amendment 7,100, as it is superfluous, and in favour of the G7,100 agenda, if accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u220	Mr President, on the G7100 agenda, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur and the Government is willing to accept it as a recommendation. Amendment 7,100 is actually superfluous, so we are going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u221	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G7100 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u222	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u224	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, as far as Amendment 7,100 is concerned, I wanted to point out that it is a necessary clarification of the amendment already voted by the Commission because non-EU citizens must clearly be equal to Italian citizens. In our Province there is not only the obligation of bilingualism but also the principle of ethnic proportionality, and it would be obvious for non-EU citizens to follow the same principles as Italian citizens. We do not want to discriminate against anyone, but equal treatment. Therefore I invite the Government (I also spoke with the Offices) to review the opinion (it has been reported to me that it would be in favour of it), because this would frankly seem absurd and would also put at risk our model of life already practiced for decades.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u225	I do not know whether the Minister and the rapporteur want to respond to this request, but they have already expressed their opinion. ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Can we put him down? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, there is only this amendment to the article. Minister Moavero seems to confirm that opinion. Then the question can be dealt with at other moments of study. I understand the importance of that, of course.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u226	Mr President, I repeat that we have returned to this House on this amendment. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u227	I therefore call on Senator Berger and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 7.100. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 251 Senators voting 248 Majority 125 Favorables 36 Contrari 126 Absent 86]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u228	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u229	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u230	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, I would like to keep to the acts which I and Senators Dirindin and Fattorini wanted to vote against in the previous vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u231	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 7. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 253 Senators voting 251 Majority 126 Favourites 237 Absent 14]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 8. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 252 Senators voting 250 Majority 126 Favourites 249 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Article 9. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 245 Majority 123 Favourites 199 Absent 46]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u232	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u233	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u234	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to point out that I was unable to take part in the vote on Rule 8 and that I wanted to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u235	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u236	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u237	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I should like to point out that my abstention vote during the previous vote has not been recorded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u238	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u239	We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u240	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 10. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means:
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u241	[[Senators present 253 Senators voting 251 Majority 126 Favourites 201 Contrars 48 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We move on to Rule 11, on which an agenda has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u242	Mr President, we believe that the G11.100 agenda can be accepted as a recommendation, with a view to promoting possible changes to EU legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u243	The Government accepts the agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u244	The G11.100 agenda was adopted as a recommendation and will not be put to the vote. I put to the vote Rule 11. It's approved. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u245	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u246	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u247	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I repeat for the fourteenth time that I am standing on every amendment. I ask the whole Presidency to pay due attention. I'll always ask you for the electronic vote, calmly enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u248	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u249	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u250	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, if we want to play, we can also play, but we are simply exercising the rights that Parliament's regulations have assured oppositions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They are insured in the Assembly, they are not from the opposition: simultaneous voting can also be requested by the Morra majority (M5S). We are not doing anything that is not regulated at all, but something that is granted to us by the regulations. If we want to reform the regulations, which means that we cannot even speak, then let us know, but the citizens will have to know as well. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As you can see, you can talk. MORRA (M5S). Senator Santangelo has on several occasions, on behalf of the Group, kindly asked for the simultaneous vote and has also anticipated that for all subsequent articles he would make the same request. If you go straight to the vote by show of hands, without checking the possibility that some of us, because I also speak on behalf of the other groups, have the desire, however, in the exercise of your right, legitimate, it seems to me, to ask for the electronic vote, we are in another country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u251	We are in Italy with the current Regulation. We shall now proceed to the debate on Rule 12, on which an agenda has been tabled, and I would ask the presenter to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u252	Mr President, Article 12 deals with the 2010/2045 infringement procedure concerning the incorrect application of Directive 1999/70/EC. This infringement procedure concerns trade union representatives in companies. Unfortunately, however, this act of the Senate does not contain the infringement procedure 2010/2124 relating to the same European directive, which instead concerns the abuse - I stress the abuse, not the use - that Italy makes of the fixed-term contracts of the staff of the ATA school and teachers. Given the importance the education sector must have for this House and for the work of the Government, I think it is important to draw attention to this further infringement procedure, which is not only at the stage of supplementary notice, under Article 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, but is also the subject of several appeals that precarious teachers have put in place, many of which have already reached a judgment of first instance in favour of teachers themselves. Therefore, since the draft law No 588 does not close all disputes related to the transposition of Directive 1999/70/EC, with this agenda we ask the Government to speed up the definition of issues relating to the infringement procedure 2010/2124, relating to the abuse of fixed-term contracts in the school sector. This is precisely to meet those teachers who, instead of being protected and valued in their very important role, see their rights trampled on and are therefore forced to appeal against the State to see its recognition. I therefore hope that the Government will accept this very important agenda for the school sector and that the House will be able to vote in favour of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u253	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u254	The opinion was opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u255	With regard to item 1) of the agenda, the Government's opinion is in favour. With regard to point 2, the Government calls for a rewording, in the sense of adding the following formula: "to assess the appropriateness of predicting" after the word "times". If accepted, the opinion was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u256	Senator Bocchino, do you accept the proposed reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u257	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u258	Rapporteur: Mr Cociancich, what is your orientation in the light of the reformulation? COCIANCICH, rapporteur on draft law No 588. The opinion was in favour of the reworded text.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u259	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G12.100 (text 3) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 12. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 251 Senators voting 250 Majority 126 Favorable 239 Contrars 8 Absent 3]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u260	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u261	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u262	CALIENDO (PdL). Mr President, I believe that we will not be able to approve the whole measure today, given the timing. As for the last text adopted, it is probably correct - I voted in favour - but honestly we do not know the rewording or the debate that has taken place. I think it would be much more appropriate to postpone the follow-up to next week, so that we can have the text of the amendments in order to understand them.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u263	I understand, Senator Caliendo. The sitting will be closed at 2 p.m. We continue; the Groups and the House are sovereign over the progress of the work. The Conference of Leaders approved a timetable setting at 2 p.m. the end of today's sitting, except for different decisions, which I cannot take, and even less individual senators. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 13. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 243 Senators voting 240 Majority 121 Favorables 225 Contrars 1 Absent 14]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u264	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u265	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u266	AELLO (PdL). Mr President, I would like to point out that I was unable to vote and that my vote wanted to be in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14. SANTANGELO (M5S). We request and kindly request the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 14. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 245 Senators voting 243 Majority 122 Favourites 241 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 15. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 246 Senators voting 243 Majority 122 Favourites 241 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 16. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 16. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 245 Senators voting 243 Majority 122 Favorables 240 Contrars 1 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 17. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 17. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 247 Senators voting 242 Majority 122 Favourites 241 Contrars 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u267	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u268	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u269	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I was wrong to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u270	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u272	NUGNES (M5S). Me too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u273	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 18. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 18. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 245 Senators voting 243 Majority 122 Favorable 242 Contrars 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 19. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 19. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 250 Senators voting 248 Majority 125 Favorable 247 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u274	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u275	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u276	IN MAY (SPI). Mr President, I have not been able to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u277	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u278	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u279	D'ONGHIA (SPI). Me too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u280	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 20, on which agendas have been presented and which I call on the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u281	Mr President, Article 20 transposes the directives on the disposal of waste from extractive companies. I come from Carrara and therefore I know quite well the world of quarries, indeed very well. Management relationships between businesses and local administrations often have a pseudo-mafia style. I therefore ask the Government, since we are talking a lot about Europe, to make its own the commitment on the G20.200 agenda in order to ensure the adoption of uniform criteria to ensure the full environmental sustainability of mining operations. When working in the quarry the environmental damage is immense: we go not only to disfigure the landscape but also to overthrow the balance inside the mountains. The quarries of Carrara, for example, insist on the park of the Apuans and constitute the largest mining basin; the quarries of Livorno, on the hills of Campiglia Marittima and San Vincenzo, are one of the most resounding cases of landscape and environmental devastation. In the state, in Italy, there are 5,736 active quarries, while there are more than 13,000 abandoned ones. I remember that the quarry, when it is abandoned, often becomes an open-air dump. In the municipality of Massa, the former Viti quarry is now a landfill that has become almost legal as an abuser without anyone doing anything. This is what Italian politicians have done on our territory. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover, for the relationships that have been established over the years between the local entrepreneurs and the administrations that have followed, the concession fees must be revised, according to a unique criterion throughout the territory. Some regions legislate on the mining action, but no one then goes to check whether the rules are actually being complied with. With the agenda G20.200 I therefore ask the Government to take the commitment to prepare the appropriate measures to improve the efficiency of the mining activity and constant monitoring of the state of the quarries. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u282	I shall be brief, Mr President, to explain the G20.100 agenda and read it: The Senate, in the examination of the bill containing "Provisions for the fulfilment of the obligations deriving from the belonging of Italy to the European Union - European Law 2013" (A.S. n. 588), said that: Article 20 novella the legislative decree 30 May 2008, n. 117, through some modifications to the provisions for inert waste deriving from the operations of prospecting or research, extraction, treatment and storage of mineral resources and from the exploitation of quarries; the letters g), h) and i) of paragraph 1 of Article 21 rewrite the first two paragraphs of Article 8 of the legislative decree cited in order to make them more adherent to the text of the corresponding article of the directive. In particular, a new and more detailed framework is introduced on public participation in the authorization procedure relating to the deposit of extraction waste, providing for appropriate forms of advertising; (...) commits the Government: to assess the desirability of ensuring full and transparent information on the authorisation procedures relating to the deposit of extraction waste to all citizens living in the territories involved in the exploration or research, extraction, treatment and storage of mineral resources and the exploitation of quarries, including through the publication of the information documentation on all newspapers distributed both regionally and provincially. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u283	The G20.200 agenda can be accepted in my view as a recommendation. I am in favour of the G20.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u284	The G20.200 agenda was adopted as a recommendation. I accept the agenda for the G20,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u285	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u286	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u287	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I do not quite understand: are the agendas both accepted?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u288	Both were accepted, one fully and the other as a recommendation. The G20.100 you presented was fully welcomed, while the G20.200, presented by Senator Bottici and other senators, was accepted as a recommendation. As the proposers do not insist on the vote, the G20.200 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. Having been accepted by the Government, the G20.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 20. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 20. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 241 Senators voting 240 Majority 121 Favorable 238 Contrari 2]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 21. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 21. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 240 Senators voting 239 Majority 120 Favourites 239]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 22. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 22. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 243 Senators voting 239 Majority 120 Favorable 238 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u289	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u290	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u291	ZANONI (PD). Mr President, in the previous vote the electronic device did not register my vote, which wanted to be a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u292	We take note of that, Senator Zanoni. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 23, on which an amendment and agendas have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u293	I am opposed to Amendment 23,200 and to the G23,100 and G23,101 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u294	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u295	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 23,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 23.200 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 243 Senators voting 240 Majority 121 Favorables 59 Contrari 181]] The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u296	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u297	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u298	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Mr President, I voted in favour of the enthusiasm, and in fact I wanted to vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u299	We take note of that. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G23.100 and G23.201 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 23. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 23. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 243 Senators voting 242 Majority 122 Favorable 189 Contrars 48 Absent 5]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u300	It is at 2 p.m., the time that had been set for the end of the sitting. I do not know whether the Group's orientation is to continue our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u301	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u302	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u303	EXPOSED Joseph (PdL). Mr President, I also heard the views of the other groups: we would be prepared to continue the work until the end of the amendments, postponing the explanations of vote and the final vote until the next sitting. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u304	It seems to me that the consensus of this House enables us to proceed in our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u305	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u306	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u307	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for clarification regarding the resumption of our work. Does Senator Esposito's proposal mean that at 5 p.m. on Monday we resume with explanations of vote? Do we start again with this measure and not with constitutional reforms? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's what it's supposed to be. We continue with the arguments not concluded, then we will continue the examination of this measure. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). The only clarification I would like to make, Mr President, is as follows: as for Monday's sitting the timetable provides for the discussion of constitutional reforms, does this measure precede the constitutional reforms planned for Monday? [[Applause from Senator Morra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u308	The text of the timetable provides for the possible follow-up of unfinished topics. The debate on the draft Constitutional Act, which, as you know, seems to have already concluded its procedure in the Commission, is already scheduled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u309	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u310	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u311	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I have a doubt about the proposal to continue the work, since at 14.30 we all have untenable commitments in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u312	We all know that: we have commitments in the Commission. We will assess this at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u313	We move on to Rule 24, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u314	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u315	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u316	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would ask you to be able to endorse Amendment 24,200 if Senator Orellana agrees. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u317	I am against Amendment 24,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u318	I agree with the rapporteur, because Article 28 solves the same problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u319	Amendment 24,900 by the rapporteur is necessary to transpose the opinion of the 5th Commission, since it is the economic invariance clause.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u320	MOAVERO MILANESI, Minister for European Affairs. I am in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u321	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 24,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Orellana and other senators to vote by simultaneous electronic ballot on Amendment 24,200. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 239 Senators voting 238 Majority 120 Favorables 69 Contrari 168 Absent 1]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 24,900. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 24,900 tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 230 Senators voting 226 Majority 114 Favorable 179 Absent 47]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. I'm picking up a number of mis-voting reports from senators. (Senators Cirinna, Ginetti and D'Anna report that they were unable to vote.) We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 24 in the amended text. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 24 in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 239 Senators voting 237 Majority 119 Favorable 236 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 25. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 25. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 239 Senators voting 237 Majority 119 Favourites 234 Contrars 1 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 26, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u322	Mr President, the amendments we have tabled to Article 26 concerning derogations from the rules on hunting for protected species and the system of controls are aimed at improving the work done in the Commission with the priority objective - I say this clearly - to respond satisfactorily to the infringement procedure which was opened against Italy in 2006, and concern issues relating to the opinion of ISPRA. I would like to point out that if the views expressed by the rapporteur and the Government are opposed, as I believe, I, Mrs Cirinna and the other signatories are prepared to withdraw them in order to turn them into agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u323	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u324	I call on the rapporteur to give his opinion on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u325	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator De Petris for her announced willingness to withdraw the amendments if there were an opinion to the contrary. I know this has been a particularly complex debate. I really want to acknowledge the great willingness of everyone to find a satisfactory wording. With regard to the amendments tabled by Senator De Petris, I call for them to be withdrawn and turned into an agenda. As regards Amendments Nos 26,101 and 26,102, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u326	Since Senator De Petris had already said that she was available to this effect, the amendments she signed were intended to be put on the agenda for G26,200. I call on the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u327	Mr President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u328	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u329	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u330	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to point out that the amendments I have tabled re-propose the article as proposed by the Government before the amendment was tabled in the Commission. It seems to me rather curious that a contrary opinion should be given on what the Government itself had written.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u331	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u332	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u333	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, I rise to repeat the same thing. I was rapporteur for the draft law during the examination in 13a The Commission and indeed the amendments reproduce the text of the Government. In addition, it is a question of allowing the holders of certificates to give an opinion in independent institutions, including regional institutions. In our Province the Faunistic Observatory works very well and from the scientific point of view is the most serious one can imagine. I don't see why we have to take away this possibility. I therefore ask, if I may, to add my signature to Amendments 26,101 and 26,102, announcing my vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u334	I take note of that. Does the rapporteur confirm his opinion?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u335	Yes, Mr. President. However, the Region is not excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u336	Having been accepted by the Government, the G26,200 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 26.101. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the first part of Amendment 26.101, tabled by Senator Candiani, up to the words "scientific and organizational." I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 240 Senators voting 239 Majority 120 Favorables 30 Contrari 158 Absent 51]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. The remainder of Amendment 26.101 and Amendment 26.102 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 26. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 26. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 234 Senators voting 230 Majority 116 Favorable 170 Absent 60]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 27. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 27. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 237 Senators voting 236 Majority 119 Favorable 184 Contrars 1 Absent 51]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u337	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u338	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u339	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, I would like to point out that on Rule 27 I mistakenly voted in favour, while my vote was against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u340	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 28. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 28. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 234 Senators voting 232 Majority 117 Favorable 231 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 29. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 29. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 235 Senators voting 234 Majority 118 Favourites 232 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 30. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 30. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 238 Senators voting 237 Majority 119 Favourites 234 Contrars 1 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 31. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 31. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 233 Senators voting 230 Majority 116 Favorable 227 Absent 3]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 32. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 32. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 236 Senators voting 235 Majority 118 Favorables 233 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u341	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u342	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u343	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out that I was unable to vote on Rule 32.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u344	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 33, on which amendments and an agenda have been tabled. A proposal for a deletion has also been tabled, which I would ask the rapporteur to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u345	Mr President, there has been a need for further information on Article 33, so I would ask for the whole article to be deleted from the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u346	The proposal to delete S33.1 has priority in the vote over the amendments referred to in Article 33. I invite the representative of the Government to comment on the proposal to delete S33.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u347	The Government returns to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u348	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for deletion S33.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, by Rules of Procedure, you vote by show of hands. I put to the vote the proposal to delete S33.1, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. The amendments and the agenda referred to in Rule 33 are therefore not included. As a result of the adoption of the proposal for the deletion referred to in Article 33, the provisions contained therein will be incorporated into the autonomous bill No 588-a, entitled: •Provisions implementing the European Commission Implementing Decision of 17 October 2012, with reference to the natural disasters affecting Marche and Umbria in 1997, Molise and Puglia in 2002, Abruzzo in 2009 This bill will be immediately assigned to the relevant parliamentary committees. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 34. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 34. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 237 Senators voting 236 Majority 119 Favorable 215 Absent 21]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, President. Let us turn to the amendments aimed at adding additional articles after Article 34. Amendment 34.0.200 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u349	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u350	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u351	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 34.0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u352	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 35. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Rule 35. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 231 Senators voting 229 Majority 115 Favourites 225 Contrars 2 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the joint debate on draft law no. 587 and 588 and documents LXXXVII-a, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u353	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u354	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u355	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, I was unable to vote in this last vote on Rule 35.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u356	The Presidency takes note of this. I shall refer the following to the joint debate on the drafts of legislation and documents in the course of another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u357	At this point, there would be the end-of-session speeches. Since there are hearings being held at certain committees, I would ask my colleagues to postpone the speeches at the end of the sitting, not because we are going to lunch - at least I am not going to - but because there is a very important hearing in the RAI Parliamentary Supervisory Committee and there are other work in progress. I would therefore ask colleagues to postpone the speeches at the end of the sitting, of which I understand the importance, to other sittings. If there are no comments, then we shall proceed. Thank you and good work, since lunch is off.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-58.ana.u358	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 14.20 a.m.
