ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 12 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.05).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with her the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Senate of the Republic commemorates today Senator Giulio Andreotti, who died on May 6, 2013. Four years ago, in celebrating its ninetieth birthday, this Assembly recalled its extraordinary cursus honorum at the service of the Republican institutions. His figure has been identified to such an extent with the history of our Republic to become, in the widespread perception - nourished by popular culture, literature and cinematography - almost an icon of the exercise of political power and the highest public functions. Andreotti claimed that "governing" is distributing discontent equally, meaning "not having an office manager." His life was, also in this, a sign of realism and irony. When he was an orphan of a young father, he had to work from a very young age during his university studies to help support his family. At the same time, however, he began to engage and assume positions of responsibility within the Italian Catholic University Federation. In 1939 he became director of the journal of the association and, three years later, succeeded Aldo Moro in the national presidency. In that storm that saw the first underground attempts to reorganize a political presence of democratic Catholics in the face of the increasingly evident crisis of fascism, Giulio Andreotti held a meeting that would mark his future. As he loved to tell those who asked him about the origins of his political career, he recalled that, being at a political meeting in the house of Giuseppe Spataro, he recognized there a severe employee of the Vatican Apostolic Library who a few days earlier, in front of his research on the history of the Pontifical Navy, had apostrophato: But you don't have anything better to do? It was not a reproach, but a higher call to responsibility, for that librarian was Alcide De Gasperi. Having become one of the closest collaborators of the Trentino statesman, he entered the government in May 1947 as State Secretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in the fourth Cabinet De Gasperi. Andreotti wrote about him as follows: "De Gasperi invited us to promise voters a little less than we were sure to keep. It was the beginning of a governmental experience destined to last more than forty-five years: except for two short interruptions in the V and the VIII legislature, in fact, all the Governments of the Republic until 1992 included Giulio Andreotti among their members, seven times with the office of President of the Council of Ministers. In 1954 he was the youngest Minister of the Interior of Republican history, at only thirty-five years of age, and, in the following years, he was called to hold the Dicasteries of Finance, Treasury, Defence and Industry. In July 1970 he was first appointed by President Saragat to form a new government, but the attempt did not succeed and was forced to give up: only in February 1972 he managed to form his first government, but he did not gain the confidence of the Senate, thus opening the way to the early end of the 5th legislature. After the elections, he was again called to preside over the Council of Ministers and remained head of the Executive until June 1973. Minister of Defence in the last Rumor Government and Minister of Budget in the IV and V Moro Government, Julius Andreotti again presided over the Executive in July 1976: the result of the elections held in June had led the political forces to create a government composed of Christian Democrats and supported in Parliament by the abstention of all parties in the so-called constitutional arch. Thus began a political season among the most difficult in the history of the Republic, marked by the economic crisis and the spread of terrorism and political violence, which culminated in the devastating story of the kidnapping and vile murder of Aldo Moro. The choice to become leader of the line of firmness towards the requests of the Red Brigades in defense of the authority of the State was for Andreotti cause of a tearing suffering, made even more acute - as he himself confided to Francesco Cossiga - by the widespread perception of his apparent indifference. The experience of national solidarity ended in 1979 and for the entire duration of the eighth legislature he did not take office as a government: he was elected President of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, and in that new capacity he was able to make a valuable contribution to European and Mediterranean relations, during the period when the instrument of parliamentary diplomacy began to be established, to which further development later contributed in the role of President of the Political Affairs and Disarmation Committee of the Interparliamentary Union. In 1983 he was again called to the office of Minister of Foreign Affairs in the two Governments led by Bettino Craxi, as well as, in the next legislature, in the Governments Goria and De Mita: for six years he guided Italian diplomacy between the serious international tensions of the period, with the Mediterranean and the Middle East shaken by the terrorist threat - which, as we remember, hit on numerous occasions the Italian soil and interests - and bloody regional conflicts. In the summer of 1989 he again presided over the Council of Ministers, and in this role he was confronted, in the following three years, with the very rapid transformations of that season: from the sudden collapse of the systems of real socialism in Central and Eastern Europe to the dissolution of the Soviet Union, from the reunification of Germany to the resumption of the path of Community integration, which with the Maastricht Treaty laid the foundations of the European Union. Epochal changes, which will soon manifest their effects even within our country, helping to determine, within a few months, a radical change of the entire political system. And he didn't miss his scratching irony on these themes as well. Andreotti said: "Italians are very Europeanist but little European." In this long journey at the service of our country, President Andreotti was able to count, as is well known, on exceptional human and political qualities: an unparalleled confidence in dialogue and mediation, both on the level of internal policy and on that of international relations, and an uncommon ability to seize with speed and effectiveness the specific aspects of the issues and problems over which he was, from time to time, called to exercise his role. This was accompanied by an extraordinary political fantasy, able to find, on many occasions, the way out that no one had yet thought of, and its acute organizational qualities, demonstrated since early youth duties. At the international level, it proved a capable and tenacious will to defend, on the most diverse occasions, the essential core of national sovereignty and independence, even if in coherence with the fundamental choices relating to the international location of our country. For him loyalty did not mean subordination, but sincere, respectful and, above all, mutual friendship. Serious, but never serious, also on international politics stated: Explaining Italy to foreigners is not always easy: from us slow trains are called "accelerated" and the "Corriere della Sera" comes out in the morning. But the political and institutional history of Giulio Andreotti is not exhausted in his unmatched experience of Government. It has always rested, equally firmly, on sixty-eight years of uninterrupted membership of the Parliamentary Assemblies: from the National Council (to which it was called in September 1945, at the age of twenty-six), to the election to the constituent Assembly the following year, and then to be confirmed by the electoral body in the mandate of Member for ten successive legislatures. In the fifth legislature he was also President of the Parliamentary Group of Christian Democracy in the Chamber of Deputies, at a time when the new Regulations, adopted in 1971, began to give parliamentary groups and their presidents a fundamental driving force in the work of the Assemblies. In 1991, during his last post as Government, he was appointed senator for life by President Cossiga for very high merits in the social and literary field; he thus became part of our Assembly, continuing to express with authority, in every act and in every intervention - as he had already done in the long experience of Government - his firm confidence in the centrality of the parliamentary institution. A deep conviction, manifested also through the assiduousness and attention with which he participated, as long as health allowed him, in the work of the Assembly and of the Permanent Commissions, even during the period, for him most difficult, of his judicial affairs. His speeches, always sagaci in spirit as measured in tones, were able to capture the attention of the whole Assembly, which turned towards his scranno aware of drawing, beyond the different political positions, a comfort of wisdom and experience. An uncommon cultural sensitivity always accompanied the usual concreteness and the constant will - with a profoundly democratic character, consistent with its fundamental political options - to spread knowledge and make it usable even outside the narrow circle of experts on the subject. He knew how to grasp the vices and evils of Italy with singular frankness and are famous his sentences: In Italy it is considered undemocratic to speak of duty. We are children in this sense. The fiscal conscientious objectors are much more numerous than the others. It was appreciated by all his talent for popular writing: his intense and well-kept editorial activity, has produced real novels of historical analysis, treated in a lucid and tight style, but always open to the understanding of non-professionals, together with an unparalleled production of memories and comments, which offer us a unique testimony on the main events of recent history. This dual nature of a political man and a man of letters received the most important recognition - as we recalled - in 1991, when President Cossiga did not fail, in the decree of appointment as a senator for life, to remember also his very high merits in the literary field. Colleagues, a great and complex figure like that of Senator Andreotti can not only be solemnly commemorated, but must be handed over in its completeness to the thoughtful and serene judgment of history. He wrote Massimo Franco, before even as a biographer and journalist, from his deep acquaintance: Andreotti was the embodiment of an Italy that emerged traumatized by the fascist regime. Terrified of new adventures. And for a long time clinging to those institutions that have guaranteed her well-being, normality in the framework of the Cold War, and a system of civil and religious values: Vatican, United States, Europe. And family. It is on these architraves that Andreotti built not only his political career, but his philosophy of life. With its paradoxes the Andreotian culture continues to trace the paradox of an Italy that is only now awakening from the illusion of prolonging the "sweet life" told by Federico Fellini. And it is a painful awakening, which Andreotti helps to explain and decipher with the example of his mystery and his contradictory personality. Some of his "pills" still make you smile today. Others shudder, thinking of the role that the senator for life has played in some of the darkest events of Christian Democrat Italy. Others, finally, have the taste of the fiele, because they appear a premonition of the almost congenital defects that Italy is paying. I like to conclude by recalling his meditated suggestion: I see Paradise as the place of total serenity. A lack of concern. Of not having haste, not having anguish, not having revenge to perform. Yet perhaps even today if he were present in this Chamber he would tear us yet another smile and for his commemoration he would say: I'm posthumous to myself. Finally, I would like to express on behalf of the Senate the closeness and participation of our institution to Mrs. Livia and her children Marilena, Lamberto, Stefano and Serena, as well as to those who over the years have collaborated with Giulio Andreotti in the various roles played in the very long course of his history in many extraordinary aspects. I'll ask you for a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, Misto-SEL, Misto LN-AUT, GAL and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u7	Comrade (GAL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate today honours the figure and work of Giulio Andreotti. The Senators of our Group, beginning with our colleague Giovanni Mauro who in the party and in the Andreotian current (among other things, in Sicily) has always proudly militated, recognize in his story... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I apologise, Senator Compagna, however, since it is all speeches that commemorate the figure of Senator Giulio Andreotti, I would like you to pay attention in this House. Please continue, Senator Comrade. Comrade (GAL). As I said, we recognize in his personal and political history an extraordinary and very high testimony of Italian and European democrats. Of course, Andreotti will remain tied above all to the Chamber of Deputies where he was, from the beginning, even to the Consultant, then to the Constituent, young scholar and then teacher of a civil parliamentarism and even - you have remembered - of regulatory technicality, when together with Pietro Ingrao, the leader of the Italian Communist Party, were launched those Regulations of the beginning of the seventies. It would be wrong, however, to limit Andreotti to his parliamentary history. His season and his activity here in the Senate from 1991 until that very sad day last spring were important: in the Chamber, in the Commission, in the parliamentary delegation to the OSCE, to which, for more than a parliamentary term, he was able to give prestige, strong of the passion and competence of whom such an international organization had invented. It was even conceived at the Helsinki Security and Cooperation Conference in the mid-1970s. Andreotti was in the Senate a clear good example of how, after an almost uninterrupted fifty-year experience in the executives, we can continue to love Parliament, to use its instruments and resources to continue to serve that certain idea of Italy and Europe of which it had begun to dictate the lines in the degasperian legislature. In Andreotti, that same idea came even before he met De Gasperi and demonstrated it, perhaps especially as a great writer. You were right, Mr President, to stress its fineness and depth of literature. I remember one of the most beautiful books and greatest novels of Italian literature Â Thirteen hours: the Minister must die Â Â Â. We were in the '70s. Two were the great literary products of Italy then. One was this by Andreotti, set in Pellegrino Rossi's Rome; the other, no less beautiful, by Giorgio Amendola, is a choice of life. It was his autobiography, but it was more beautiful than a novel. From this point of view, in Rome where Professor Pellegrino Rossi arrives, who is the Minister who must die, there is a structure almost yellow. In addition to having inspired a great novel in that Rome papalina and even traveled by the worst anticlericalism, with Cicerùacchio (Angelo Brunetti), that the great reformer Pellegrino Rossi will kill at the Chancellery, Andreotti sought, when Italy and Europe were still embryonic ideas - we were in the mid-nineteenth century - the roots of a civilization of coexistence, crossed by modern constitutional law, that of Benjamin Constant and Pellegrino Rossi, of the guarantees of freedom. I am talking, in short, about what would have been a century after the roots of that degasperian Italy of which he had to be a great protagonist. It is true, Mr President, that President Cossiga's appointment as a senator for life was a high recognition of how the culture of politics is to be respected as an authentic culture, as a culture with the "C" maiuscuola, which, colleagues, applies to other great exponents of the culture of politics who have become senators for life, from Sturzo to Valiani, from Bobbio to Spadolini and I do not want to neglect either the legal culture of Francesco De Martino or the economic culture of Mario Monti. In the Senate Andreotti had to live very bitter moments, but from those moments he knew how to draw important considerations and reflections and with great generosity he wanted to make them available to this House. In 2003, after a decision of the Supreme Court that freed him from a ten-year nightmare, my colleague Andreotti asked for the word for personal fact and, as in the great tradition of the parliaments, also the Italian one (let's think of Spaventa, let's think of Minghetti), that intervention by personal fact was an intervention by general fact, of extraordinary sensitivity, adherent to the political history of his country. At one point Andreotti - I remember it with a thrill - remembered how in a passage of his sentence he read: Inclinations towards judicial protagonism or the cynical pursuit of possible benefits, in the awareness of the importance that would have been attached by investigators to a contribution that would strengthen the accusatory framework charged to Senator Andreotti. It had happened that that gun, the premiere legislation, the mechanism of the repentant, that Andreotti had wanted at the disposal of his country, at a certain point had been used against him. Words of the sentence, not political or lawyer evaluations. I remember Andreotti's surgery. It was a very nice debate; Senator Angius intervened, Senator Schifani certainly intervened, D'Onofrio (I remember him with particular friendship), and what came out? It turned out that with that sentence not only Andreotti but Italy came out of a nightmare. We must not pretend that there should be special favorable protections for high-level politicians. But when, after ten years, sentences are pronounced that say that, instead, special forms of prejudice, of hostile judicial action have been used against those politicians, precisely the terrible mechanism of anti-mafia legislation, then comes the hope that judgments such as those can also rehabilitate the judiciary. Friend Casini is here; then he was a congressman and I was a senator: he and I never had doubts that Andreotti's innocence would emerge, but it took so long. And then, from this point of view, a problem of the mechanisms between justice and politics was there and it was good for President Pera to give the floor to Andreotti on that occasion. He brought it as a personal matter, with the elegance and sillyness of those who love Parliament to the point of knowing how personal facts can not exist there. The relationship between justice and politics can be organized, regulated and lived in many ways, but Jacobinism is the worst and from this point of view a great political and parliamentary story, such as that of Giulio Andreotti, including his sufferings and including his bitterness, is still a point of reference for the future of Italy. Our Group, Grandi Autonomie e Libertà, bowed to his memory, expressing particular solidarity with the family. [[Applause from the LAG, PD, PdL, SCpI, LN-Aut and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u10	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, as a Group for the Autonomies, PSI-MAIE, and in particular as representatives of linguistic minorities, we can and will say that with Giulio Andreotti one of the most authoritative protagonists of republican history has disappeared and the one who rightly we have always recognized as an important point of reference for the autonomy. As already mentioned by the President, his political history had its origins in his relationship with Alcide De Gasperi, of whom he was secretary and close collaborator at the time of the negotiations for the Paris Agreement of 5 September 1946, concluded with the then Austrian Foreign Minister Karl Gruber, who constitutes the Magna Charta of our special autonomy, namely that of the Trentino-Alto Adige Region (Südtirol). Senator Andreotti looked at autonomy with the respect that is of those whose political history has its own constitutional reasons and motivations, which are principles of guarantee and protection that guide the institutions and political actors in a parliamentary democracy. For this reason, we can say that he has been part of our history, because he has been able to operate so that the perspective of autonomy was part of the Italian Constitution in 1947-1948, with Article 6 referring to linguistic minorities and, even more, with Article 116, which establishes the constitutional rank of the Statutes of autonomy. It also played a key role in the implementation of the so-called 1969 package and the 1972 second Statute of Autonomy. He has always followed with attention the development of the negotiations, which have made significant progress in particular during the periods in which Senator Andreotti took over the leadership of the Government. In 1992, thanks to the commitment of the then President of the Council Andreotti, the international dispute with the Republic of Austria finally came to an end with the release and deposit of the official notes to the United Nations and to the Council of Europe. In addition to this political commitment to our autonomy in Rome, he has always followed with great interest our issue: he visited South Tyrol almost every year, staying in Merano with his friends, the Eisenkeil family, in their hotel. He has always supported the centrality of Parliament as a fundamental body of representative democracy and non-self-referential policy. His responsibilities as a government, his political role, do not recall, as it would be superficial to say, reasons for power. Its cultural and political heritage, as rarely happens now, is the reason for reflections whose profile is not conservative at all, but of intellectual openness to the need for dialogue, mediation as a more elaborate point of synthesis and not as a diminutive moment of political life. These qualities would have been even more fundamental in the face of the indispensable constitutional reforms and the reform of the electoral law to which the political system is called today, at the most acute stage of its representative crisis. Senator Andreotti has never adhered to the opinion, today so widespread and so arbitrarily referred to the majority system, that different elaborations of political thought are the premise to the delegitimization of antithetical positions or different from their own analyses. On the contrary, the diversity of opinions has always been the reason, for Andreotti, for their legitimacy and confrontation as an act of responsibility in the politics and in the life of the institutions. Senator Andreotti was also one of the promoters of the establishment of the Autonomous Group in the Senate, which took place for the first time in 2001. His accession, also in this legislature, to the Group that I chair was the natural conclusion of an institutional, political and cultural path, in which the role of linguistic minorities and autonomy has always been recognized as essential by Senator Andreotti. The Senate of the Republic, the institutions, the country can not fail to use its political thought and its institutional culture as an indispensable heritage for the constitutional and parliamentary reforms that the country is waiting for. In his view of politics, the safeguarding of constitutional principles and the rules of parliamentary democracy has always been combined with an indispensable assumption of responsibility on the part of political forces, because the policy of dialogue, which he has always pursued, has never been conceived in a conservative way but as a reformer evolution of the social and political life of the country. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] , PD and PdL. Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, as a Mixed Group and SEL member we wanted to take part today in this commemoration day, because undoubtedly Senator Giulio Andreotti was the political man who, more than any other, linked his name and his biography to the parable of the First Italian Republic. What must be said about man, that is, that his political story is made up of great lights and great shadows; it can be said, for the same reason, about the long political phase of which he was undisputed protagonist. In those decades Italy has been rebuilt by the foundations on the economic, political and also ethical level: from a country destroyed by war, intimately plagued by twenty years of dictatorship and a bloody civil war, it has been led to be a modern and democratic industrial power. In those same years large grey areas were built and protected, marked by never really clear connections with areas of legal and illegal power and, in the context of the Cold War, with national and international secret operations among the most turbid. In this two-faced path, on which it is not up to us to express a judgment, which is now the responsibility of history, Giulio Andreotti has always been at the center of the scene. He was the man who more than many others contributed to the reconstruction, for example, of the Italian cultural industry, but he was also the undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council who, in the years of the Cold War and reconstruction, tried to exert a strong pressure on the contents of Italian culture in those moments of political and ideological clashes very strong in our country. It was the man of government on whom, more than any other, there were suspicions of covering, in the name of the reason of state, even the darkest operations of our secret services, but it was also the President of the Council that some of those maneuvers publicly revealed. He was among the most hostile Christian Democrat leaders at every opening on the left, but he was also the one who, in a serious situation for the country, did not hesitate to take over the leadership of the only governments of the first Republic also supported by the Communist Party. In the contrast between the international blocs that marked that era, Andreotti - we know well - was certainly not equidistant; however, especially in the eighties (and not only), he was able to set up a forward-looking and autonomous (and not only Mediterranean) foreign policy, even at the cost of reaching strong moments of tension with the allies. I would like to remind you that I met him at the time of my first election in 2001: then it was the years of discussion in this House and in the Commissions also of dramatic choices for our country and for the world (I speak of Afghanistan and Iraq). I would invite everyone to reread his speeches, which are the concrete sign of a far-sightedness, especially in the light of the years that have passed, of what has happened and is happening even today at international level, of how he has marked a foreign policy, which, unfortunately - alas - then our country has not been able to honour, which was, in fact, equidistant and far-sighted. I repeat: it is not up to us today to express a historical judgment on Giulio Andreotti and on the political phase that always saw him as a leading interpreter and director. But something can be said with certainty today: at no stage in his political life was Andreotti guided by greed or private interest. No one has ever raised doubts about his honesty. One can and, indeed, one must discuss the conception of the reason of state, which for over sixty years has directed its political action, often leading it to choices that we have not shared and have, indeed, fought then and that we will certainly not pretend to share today. But it cannot be suspected of having used politics for different and other purposes. He was the son of an era in which even the most serious mistakes were made in the name of politics and not enslaving politics for other purposes. I repeat my recognition for setting some of the cornerstones of our foreign policy. Giulio Andreotti was accused of serious crimes, both politically and personally. I do not recall, however, a single statement in which he abandoned charges against the judiciary that made those accusations. He defended himself by sword for very long years, but never by sheltering behind the screen of political persecution; never by trying to delegitimize a power of the State to improve its procedural situation. He didn't do it when those charges were made. He did not do so during the trials, in which he always defended himself, but from which he never tried to defend himself. He did not do so even after the acquittal, when it would certainly have been easier for him. Of Andreotti we have always been political rivals, direct antagonists. We will not pretend, therefore, today to forget those clashes, doubts, criticism of the opacity of his work. But we will not allow those doubts and criticisms to cloud us to the point of denying the recognitions and the respect that it deserves by right. I would also like to add a personal note: today President Andreotti would be very happy, not only for the commemoration itself, but for the whole day. Probably would accompany us with a lot of irony, even on our speeches, but for him it would still be a very nice day, because his great passion for a football team today would find satisfaction, since Rome, at least in these first three days, is driving the championship, and I know that this would be very pleasing to him. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, PdL and SCpI Groups and Senator Anitori.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u16	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to thank the Senators and the Senators for being so numerous right now. I would also like to thank the Presidency for the fact that its speech has already outlined not only the historical but also the human profile of President Andreotti, with his nuances and ironies; it is a pity that not everyone has understood this, but these are things that happen. Certainly President Andreotti has crossed the whole history of the Republic, with that form of political fare that came from a strong political culture, in which, however, the recognition and respect of the opponent was always present. He went through it by making politics in the government, but also in a party in which, in that clarity of the time, so we knew who the opponent was, it was necessary to find, precisely in the internal dialogue, the best line to be also propositive and winners, which unfortunately does not always happen today. Senator De Petris is right: I think that today President Andreotti would be happy with what is happening in this House. In fact, Madam President, today we are talking about politics. President Andreotti's opportunity to talk about him allows us to talk about politics. What I have heard so far is certainly a political debate, which I believe is good for all of us. It's time to get some reason back, too. President Andreotti, among other things, has made important contributions - you have reminded them - in a very long history, but there are ideas that still today, perhaps, should be resumed, because of their great topicality at this time. I remember, in particular, when he placed on the foreign table his original vision of the role of Italy in the Mediterranean, that opening which he made courageously, although so opposed, for example, to the Palestinian leader Arafat, where he began the thaw, at a dramatic moment in world history, which just then reached its climax. And he imagined that Italy had to have a different role at that time: to look to the North and look to Europe. He was a signatory to the first Maastricht Treaty, in which he made a commitment to become something more for this Europe, but also looking at the Mediterranean. And perhaps some teaching from that reasoning would still be current today. Of course, President Andreotti was also the subject of a lot of satire, including a film in which certainly his representation is not positive, but I think he then laughed, and laughed in part also of those who did it, because this was his irony. On the other hand, it had become the synthesis image - as you, Madam President, represented it - of a political period and perhaps a power that was not him, but a piece of our history, to which all those who had power at that time competed: majority and opposition. It was mentioned earlier, and it is useless to remember it again: we all know that. The synthesis is that surely - you have all said it, and I agree with you - we have handed the judgment to history. We are perhaps not today, being many of us even in part contemporary of President Andreotti, able to give a historical judgment. Certainly it is an unreplaced figure, even if someone thinks they can do so, for example in important relations with the Catholic world. I do not want to go too far, because I do not think that this political moment should be touched today with any controversy. I would simply like to conclude, Madam President, by using two brief sentences from President Andreotti for a joint reflection. The first is his statement on history: History is a serious matter. I belong to the chronicle. I think that this teaching should also be collected by many people in this House, who are not history and are not even chronicled. And then another thought: a journalist asked President Andreotti why he came to the Chamber of Deputies on Monday to follow the general discussion, notoriously not very frequented. He replied: "It seems fair to me that young colleagues who intervene do not feel alone; and then there is always something to learn from everyone." I believe that this applies to many who today think they are leaders, but they are very far from the figure of Andreotti. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PD, PdL and SCpI Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u19	CASINI (SCPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I really think it is appropriate to say - and I agree with my colleague Mr De Petris - that history will be the one to give an accurate judgment by Giulio Andreotti, the man who has represented Italy, the State and our institutions for over fifty years. From the collaboration with De Gasperi, in the first post-war governments, as Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council, to the last years of his life in this House, with the attention (which my colleagues in the League - and I am pleased - have remembered) that he has always shown for all his colleagues, whether important or minor, for the Senate Chamber and for the parliamentary committees. Andreotti has represented and perhaps embodied power in our country for all these years. Great statesman for some, synthesis of the vices of the worst politics for others, but by all a unanimous recognition: a man of extraordinary humanity, of great intelligence, of wit, of self-irony, of international prestige. I would just like to mention a few aspects, because I think that a more accomplished judgment will obviously have to be much more meditated on. I want to remember him not only as a believer of deep faith, but also as a Christian engaged in politics, an expression not only of the ruling class of this country, but also of the complex and varied world of the universal Church that has its temporal dimension in the Holy See. Always, in every mission, in every delicate task that he had, he was able to keep in mind the interests of our country and the dimension of the universal Church, the importance that he has always grasped, the great opportunity for our country to have the Holy See in this specialty relationship. Every act of Giulio Andreotti's international politics has had as a point of reference dialogue, confrontation, international relaxation, diplomatic work for religious freedom. In the years of the Cold War - we remember this because, as you rightly said, Madam President, since the very first moments of the post-war period he has been the protagonist - he has never tired of talking. When it was almost impossible, when there were strong ideological and practical iron walls, it was always a reference, between Russians and Americans, between Israelis and Palestinians, and in this capacity it used not only the instruments of the Government but also, on several occasions, the parliamentary seats. As President of the House's Foreign Affairs Committee, as President of the Interparliamentary Union, he was a courageous forerunner of the choices discussed. I would like to remind my colleagues, who forgot, of the debut in Arafat's international diplomacy, here in Rome, in the parliamentary institutions, in the Chamber of Deputies, at the invitation of the simple Member Giulio Andreotti, then in his capacity as President of the Italian Section of the Interparliamentary Assembly. I remember a few years ago in Geneva, when with an act of exquisite courtesy he wanted to accompany me on the day of my election as President of the World Interparliamentary Union: I witnessed a real procession of all the delegations in the Italian banks; everyone had identified the presence of Andreotti and everyone, from Cubans to Venezuelans, Israelis and Palestinians, came to pay homage to a man extraordinarily considered on a planetary level. From this - because I don't want to cloud other aspects - you can understand how dismayed the Palermo trial arose in the world, the accusations of collusion with the mafia, and even more the Perugia trial, in which it had to defend itself from the absurd accusation of being the sender of a murder, later fallen, as it was natural. Today, however, I would like to pay tribute to the President-in-Office of the Council who hardened the prison for those convicted of the Mafia. In fact, if we want to historicize the event, he was dragged into the dust when he had become too politically weak to defend himself. Andreotti was indeed the emblem of the declining democratic Christian power and of the end of a season, the man who had to drag to the bar to pass the judicial equation according to which the history of Italy in the post-war period had been a criminal history and not a battle, even if it does not lack shadows, to affirm the economic development and the rules of democracy. I would like to address my fellow Members from the other branch of Parliament, who have tabled a proposal in recent days, including my party colleagues, for the establishment of a single-camera investigation commission on the abduction and death of Aldo Moro: history is too serious a thing to make scenes from yellow films or comics. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups and Senator Rizzotti]] We try to avoid taking the pretext of every opportunity to reconstruct history according to fallacious, fake suggestions, most of the time. Well, in that dramatic judicial season, Giulio Andreotti brought out his great institutional coherence; at no stage of his or her ordeal there was no lack of confidence in the State, the almost trustworthy belief in the rules of the rule of law, respect for his own implacable accusers. For fifty years he represented, without ever being its secretary, Christian Democracy, giving priority to government leadership, ministerial management to direct commitment in the party, with which he also had a relationship not always easy. We all know that Andreotti's relations were not always simple with the race horses, Fanfani and Moro. He was a follower of De Gasperi against the "professorini" Dossetti and Fanfani. He was for a long time animator of a minority centrism in the party, protagonist of the revival centrist with the Government of 1972 with Malagodi and the Liberals, but at a later time Andreotti, capable of great political conversions but actually led by the polar star of Christian Democracy and the State, was the manager of national solidarity, during the days of the dramatic end of Aldo Moro. And then, for a long time able to weave a dialogue with the Italian Communist Party. He was perhaps the least ideological of the "big" Christian Democrats. And it is said, in reality, that in every party there were men close to him and in any case not immune from his political charm, right and left. We owe him extraordinary anecdotes, and our President has reminded us of some very good stories. The most famous: The power wears down those who do not have it, it was for many the most illuminating expression of its political journey. But Giulio Andreotti was also many other things: the young fervent Catholic; the tireless manager of an electoral consensus that deeply rooted him in Rome, this city; the man able to speak also with the last elector. He was one of the most illustrious fans of Roma Calcio, but also tireless Latinist, lover of Marco Tullio Cicero, distinguished writer, actor in the film "Il taxinaro" by Alberto Sordi and also tireless man in weaving relations with a thousand personalities of the planet, were protagonists of politics, men of culture or great saints, as mother Teresa of Calcutta. It will be history that will give a final judgment on Giulio Andreotti, who has been Italy over the past fifty years: Italy to which we reproach, and rightly, the excess of public spending, but also Italy capable of giving great impetus to European unity, signatory to the Maastricht Treaties; Italy of economic reconstruction, of the fight against terrorism; but also Italy less noble of many political contradictions. I want to end by remembering - was present then the president of the Senato Grasso - on the day of the farewell to Giulio Andreotti, in a church full of many Romans. I have seen political, state, institutional personalities, but I have seen above all the Roman people, the people who loved him, very much, and who were there almost to demonstrate the anxiety to continue the dialogue with this statesman that he had since 1948. I want to say to Giulio Andreotti, who, as Mrs De Petris has reminded us, will certainly follow us with much irony, that there are those who, in this Chamber, still feel the detachment alive and feel the lack of this great personality of Republican Italy. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, PdL and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u22	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, certainly the figure of Andreotti, as has been mentioned in this House, is complex: perhaps it is the most complex figure in the history of our country in recent years. Many have mentioned many aspects of his political action. But there is in this country those who have tried to dig and deepen the aspects that here have been overshadowed, darker, of the political history of a man who has spent the terrible seasons of our country, that we cannot forget: the seasons of massacres, the night of the Republic, the seasons and the massacres of mafia. It was the judiciary that handed over its portrait of Andreotti to history and that we in this House cannot ignore. The judiciary considered - these are the words of the judiciary - the following: With his conduct (...) he has, not without personal gain, consciously and deliberately cultivated a stable relationship with the criminal association and made, however, a strengthening contribution to the same manifesting his willingness to favor the mafias. The Court considered that the offence of participation in the association for criminal offences - which had been declared prescribed until 1980 - was not visible in the conduct of an eminent national political character, of very strong influence in the general politics of the country and foreign to the Sicilian environment, which, over a reasonable period of time, even outside of an explicit negotiation of electoral support in exchange for its interventions in favour of a mafia organization of very important territorial roots in the island: a) ask and obtain, on behalf of its partners, representatives of the association, para-legal interventions, even if for non-reprobable purposes; (b) meetings repeatedly - I repeat: meetings repeatedly - with summit members of the same association; (c) maintain the same friendly relationships, strengthening their influence also with respect to other members of the same partnership who are cut off from such relationships; d) Authentic interest in relation to events particularly sensitive to the life of the Mafia association; (e) indicate to the Mafia, in relation to these events, the paths to be followed and discussed with them also of serious criminal events perpetrated by them in connection with the same events. Madam President, in this case the Court is referring to two journeys, which have been tried, made by Andreotti in my land, in Sicily, one before and one after the murder of Piersanti Mattarella: of that murder - says the Court - Andreotti discussed it with the mafia before they did it, to prevent them from doing it, and then, to reproach them for not having followed his advice. And nothing in the middle. He didn't address the judiciary. He didn't turn to law enforcement. He didn't do as much as a powerful man like him could to stop this crime. He omitted - says the Court - to denounce elements useful to shed light on facts of very particular gravity, of which he became aware in relation to direct contact with the mafias, and gave - says the Court -, in good substance, to such mafia exponents genuine and not merely fictitious signs of friendly availability, suitable also, outside the implementation of specific and effective relief interventions, to contribute to the strengthening of the criminal organization, inducing in the affiliates, also for its political authority, the feeling of being protected at the highest level of legal power. Madam President, in this House it has been said that Andreotti is Italy. For many, for millions of Italians, Andreotti is not Italy: Italy was General Carlo Alberto Dalla Chiesa and Pio La Torre, not this man. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u25	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Madam President, it is difficult to speak after the last speech. [[Applause from Senator Casini's PdLe Group.]] [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u26	Senator Giovanardi, please do your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u27	GIOVANARDI (PdL). But just to honor Senator Andreotti, I must say first of all that I am honored and moved to be able to commemorate him as a man, because I knew him, as a Member of Parliament and as a servant of the State. I remember first of all his family: married since 1945 to Livia Danese, he had four children, two males and two females, as she recalled, and four grandchildren among whom one bears his own name. A discreet, united family that never let people talk about themselves. Then the Parliamentary Giulio Andreotti, deputy and senator from 1946 to 6 May 2013, uninterruptedly for 68 years. It can be said that Parliament was its second home. It has always ensured a constant presence in Parliament's work. He loved Parliament, he knew all its inhabitants, from the last of the clerks to the Secretary-General, not to mention his colleagues, of whom he remembered everything, even if known in the forty and fifty years, in very distant times. Andreotti has also honored Parliament in the context of its extensive production of successful books, which have had dozens of editions, including the economic one, including the famous book "Shut up," which accompanied readers to know the real life of Parliament. There is no doubt (it has been remembered by many colleagues): Giulio Andreotti was the most well-known Italian government man in the world for many decades, but also the deepest connoisseur of the bureaucratic machine, the Ministries, the men and women who were going to represent the State at various levels. All this would not have been possible if, from five in the morning until late at night, the Senator's day had not been full of meetings, of personal relations, by the voters who wanted to meet him and have always gratified him - it has been remembered - with plebiscitary suffrages at the time of preferences, because they appreciated also the normality of a man who attended the horse races, cheered for Rome, loved to play cards, collected stamps, like other millions of Italians, from the most humble people to the heads of state that he had to meet for protocolari reasons. On Andreotti's day there was room for everyone. But since the hours are what they are, whoever attended the Parliament, the party congresses, the conferences, he will have well aware that Giulio Andreotti, who usually arrived first (Mr Caliendo reminded me a moment ago that even in the last days of his senatorial activity, when he arrived in the Commission Andreotti was already there) and sat down to participate diligently in the work, occupied at the same time the time in correspondence, with that minute handwriting of once, as all those who had the opportunity to write them know and received his inevitable personal reply. The party, the Christian Democracy, was surely its exclusive political love, from when it was born to when it died in 1994. For fifty years Andreotti, together with great characters like De Gasperi, Moro, Fanfani, in the eyes of the world and especially of Italians, represented the vices and virtues of that great party. Giulio Andreotti, in this case a party man, in the foreword of a recent book published in 2011, entitled "CDC. The party that made Italy had written: "Christian Democracy has represented for me (...) the constant invitation to consider not occasional what happens day after day, as many facts untied to each other; but rather to consider everything as related, as through a web of spider that allows you to grasp the deep sense of the things that happen and pass by. And again, always in that book, with words of great topicality: A lesson that emerges from the history of the DC, and that can still be true today, is that without a reference point that goes beyond the occasional, the contingent, it is almost impossible to create a new political subject. And again: If there is no moral basis, I would say spiritual, then it is difficult to be able to attract people and in particular young people. Indro Montanelli wrote, ironically, that while Alcide De Gasperi, who as Andreotti attended Mass every morning, went to church to talk to God, Andreotti instead spoke to the priest. In reality, I believe, having known him, that this line should be re-examined and corrected in the sense that Giulio Andreotti, as his intense religiosity has always shown, was able to speak both to God and to priests. Defects and errors in man and statesman? I challenge anyone, even some Torquemada colleagues, not to find them to whom it was (I remember for completeness): seven times President of the Council, with the most different formulas; eight times Minister of Defence; five times Minister of Foreign Affairs; three times Minister of State Participation; twice Minister of Finance and then, again, Minister of the Budget and Minister of Industry, Minister of the Treasury, Minister of the Interior (the youngest in Republican history, just 34 years old), Minister of Cultural Heritage and Minister of Community Policy. Certainly, despite this enormous responsibility, in all his political and human history Andreotti has never renounced that Roman spirit that nourished, on the one hand, the extraordinary vein of humor a little disenchanted and, on the other hand, the somewhat fatalist scepticism of those who were born in a place that has more than 2,000 years of history and that in history has seen the most intricate and contradictory events develop. And I believe that only in the eternal city, only in Rome, could a politician be so popular that he was affectionately and maliciously nicknamed "Divo Giulio" (Divine Julius), "Uncle Giulio" (Belzebu) and "Black Pope"). But, attention: his Catholic vision of politics, contrary to perfectism, but well rooted in the conviction that human weaknesses and original sin will never allow to build Paradise on this earth, led him to cultivate that spirit of tolerance that helped him suffer years and years of judicial torment. As many colleagues have said and the President herself, history will judge this painful phase of her life, including friendships and political attendances with environments at risk. I recall, however, that even then, even in those times so difficult, significant gestures of solidarity have not been lacking, such as that accomplished by Pope John Paul II who, for the 80 years of the senator for life, sent him this message: "I hope that the trials and sufferings, poured upon you in recent times, may, in the mysterious designs of Providence, prove to be a source of good for His person and for the entire Italian society." What can be said, however, without the subject of being denied, is that never has any government, like those he presided over, done so much in terms of punitive measures against the Mafia, when the State finally realized the mortal danger that this criminal association represented - and continues to represent - for our democratic institutions. I am perfectly aware - and I conclude - that it is a fearful undertaking to summarize in ten minutes the profile of a character that characterized the Italian political history from the first half of the last century to the first ten years of the third millennium. I believe, however, that it is right to remember, finally, the affability, courtesy and helpfulness that has always shown towards colleagues of every political side and renew their condolences to the family present here, whom I greet, imagining Giulio Andreotti who looks at us from that Paradise in which he has always believed, even if ironically thanked God for the many extensions that he had granted him to arrive without haste. [[Applause from the PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u30	Mr Corsini (PD). Madam President, drawing up a portrait, albeit concise, of a controversial and debated personality such as that of Giulio Andreotti - certainly the longest-lived character in the Italian political history of the decades following the Second World War - is an arduous undertaking to be entrusted to the search for historians. They will thus be able, sine ira ac studio, to define the salient features of a presence that has certainly left a significant mark on the history of contemporary Italy, as rightly pointed out on the occasion of the disappearance of President Giorgio Napolitano. As far as I am concerned, it is worth the commitment of a commemoration, that is, a public remembrance that, if on the one hand serves passions still not extinguished and a critical distance not yet filled, on the other evokes the responsibility of a respectful and fair judgment, inspired by balance and moderation. Although, in fact, his life has been continuously illuminated by the spotlights (his public life I say, because his private and family life has been protected by him with absolute discretion and has never crossed, as often happens), no matter how much his jokes and his mottos have entered into the vocabulary of politics, belonging to the current expressiveness of the Italians, the personality of Giulio Andreotti remains in many ways unfathomable, often in direct contact with the mystery that has enveloped passages and salient developments, frequently linked to pages not yet written fully, nor sufficiently revealed of national history. There is, however, a unifying trait that holds together politics, psychology, religiosity, custom and impulses of the character. This was clearly identified by our colleague, historian, Miguel Gotor, when he pointed out that Andreotti is fully inscribed within a tradition of political realism of counter-reformed Catholic origin and, in particular, in the specific variant of the doctrine of the ecclesiastical reason of state, of which he was the last interpreter of the twentieth century, the most skilled and refined. Therefore, to affirm the reason of state, politics as an art of government, as a woven plot of relationships and relationships, as prudent, cautious and prudent management of power in which nothing is removed from calculation, the evaluation of costs and benefits, a sort of vertigo of instrumental reason. Beyond any demonization, the place where, as Nietzsche wrote, you have to wash your hands with dirty water and hold the compass firmly to the end: in order that for him it is the national interest defined by an insurmountable limit. It can allow, yes, rifts, compromises, understood with the enemy, but provided that it is not crossed: that is, for Andreotti, the Atlantic balance. In short, the interest of a country to be stabilised, struggling as it is for entire decades with a civil war of political intensity, divided between revanchist impulses and subvertive anxieties, in some fringes well beyond the organized presence of the strongest and most solid communist party of the West. From here, of the many figures of Christian Democracy (the Catholic and anti-Communist party, the western and European American party, the Keynesian national party, the party of the pure mediation, the central and centrist party) Andreotti, who paradoxically from the DC has never received party positions, becomes a long-term interpreter, in the exercise of repeated positions of Government (Subsecretary, Minister, seven positions as President of the Council), of the party-state, crossroads of an all-Italian complexity that crosses Vatican and United States, Arab world and Jewish question, terrorism and secret services, occult powers and mafia plots. Therefore, the most remarkable trait in my opinion, of every other more distinctive: Andreotti a man of government rather than a man of state or of party, as were De Gasperi and Moro, and a man of government able to gather around him heterogeneous forces, components even minority and to translate them into a force thanks to a wise conduct, a flexible tactic, without prejudice, able to bend the course of things, of events, to the political objective of the Government, that government that "logora who does not have it." A model, this, established throughout the entire period of the cold war and deriving from a geopolitical system in which Andreotti is perfectly at ease, he always coherent and identical to himself, almost a representation - observed the philosopher Emanuele Severino - of the immutability of being, besides the changing appearance of becoming: the becoming of the Christian Democrat primacy, the alternating succession of alliances that however cannot change the status quo or, much less, distort the democratic envelope. Up to the point of supporting "I am posthumous of myself," almost to recognize in the twenty years characterized by Berlusconian supremacy its irrelevance, if not as an expression of a moderate Italy, surpassed, yes, by the accelerations of modernity, but still inclined to rewrite its autobiography. The best of himself, of his ability not separated from a vision, Andreotti gave it to the Ministry of Defence, led for long periods from the end of the fifties and until 1974, as well as to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, held for five times. Here it is given to recognize an almost demiurgical role for the assumption of a function of equilibrium as a privileged interlocutor as guarantor, through a dense plot of diplomatic relations and the relationships established with the various apparatuses of the Italian and foreign State, especially the United States, of an embankment that recognizes areas of initiative and clearly defined limits of action, attributable to a limited autonomy, to a sort of limited sovereignty in the international framework and in a world still bipolar, non-multilateral and non-globalized. A world in which Italy and Western Europe are advanced watchmen of an entire civilization. His is a realistic management that knows how to combine Atlantic and Europeanistic choice to the prominent interests of the country, despite the presence of a situation that leaves no room for manoeuvre or many alternatives to the blocks in which the world is divided: without forcing, but claiming a greater presence of Italy in the Mediterranean area and exalting a Middle Eastern vocation, not simply the result of a geographical location or the need to ensure the country's indispensable energy supply, as a result at a time of the pervicaciously pursued will to assert a quasi-arbitrary and controlling role in areas of influence against which France and Great Britain appear in increasing difficulties, and to assign to Italy the task of joining an Arab pole favorable to a negotiated solution of the conflict with the Israelis, in short, becoming the protagonist of a perspective of peace. Indeed, it is possible to recognize an interdependence between Andreotian foreign policy and the events that have seen it for many seasons at the heart of the Italian political system. Here too, it is not simply to assert itself as the pivot of a system of power, even if it is always to be cunningly linked to the irreplaceability of one's own person, but in order to manage, on the one hand, the convention to exclude the PCI and, on the other hand, the anti-fascist prejudice operating in the constitutional arc as levers of a policy responding to the desire to reproduce the prevailing moods in the electorate and aimed at confirming over time the inmobility of Christian Democracy as the founding axis of the Republic of the parties. It is recognized, therefore, a capacity to continually vanish the cards, pursuing from time to time opposite positions, now in the direction of the right, now in the direction of the left, to which more than the ability almost eel or, as someone said, luciferina with which Andreotti escapes from all appropriation, must be charged a static, Ptolemaic vision of political development and certainly not the lack of a coherent design or determination with respect to his own convictions, to those assumptions from which he has taken his commitment since he was very young. So in the years of centrism first, of the center-left then, of national solidarity later, of the preamble later. It remains to be said of the judicial events, of the infamous accusations, of the trials in which he was involved in relation to disturbing events of mafia and evil, events that, rolling on him like boulders, intertwine crookedly crime and politics. Far from the written text I say to my colleague Giarrusso with absolute tranquility, and more from the point of view of the historian than of the politician, that reducing Andreotti's story to the judicial affair is completely misleading. [[Applause from the PD, SCP, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, LAG and PDL Groups.]] Beyond, however, the judicial results that, however, project long shadows not dissipated, saying of an almost inextricable tangle made of contempt and collusion, of a gorgo produced by underground and melmose currents, remains exemplary the imperturbability of an obstinate defense and stab, conducted in the process and not against the process, as an extreme anchor to the impersonality of the norm and as the last reliance to a superior judgment, where, would say the Manzoni, 'can be gastigo, can be mercy. Certainly the militant and partist advertising has not spared epithets and corrosive denominations to Giulio Andreotti, up to infierire even on the conformation of his physicist and on the modalities of his posture. Far, however, from drawing a persuasive judgment or drawing a satisfactory balance of his work, all this refers to the need for a work of deepening and digging that certainly cannot be carried out by a parliamentary historiography, however non-existent. Nor can we be satisfied with a synthesis that is certainly effective and even fulminating: "Andreotti," the Vatican and Roman politician, "Andreotti," the intersection between a Chinese mandarin and an eighteenth-century cardinal, "Andreotti," a powerful general of the eighteenth-century Jesuits, "Andreotti," an external minister, "interpretations how reductive and partial," at least until we are able to deal with our history, to finally read it in relational and systemic form, as characterized by vices and virtues that belong to one another, until the disposition to fulfill ourselves and to deliver the opponent to the damnatio memoriae, yielding to the misleading temptation of a justiziera history and a vindicatory policy. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups) and GAL and Senator De Petris. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u31	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u32	Madam President, Senators, on behalf of the Government I join in this solemn commemoration of Giulio Andreotti, the absolute protagonist of the Republic, both criticized and loved. The presidency of the Senate Assembly and the speeches have already represented biography, chronography, historical and human profile of President And'ti. To me the honour of some considerations on the long-term man of government in the history of our Republic, but also the greatest supporter and defender of the centrality of Parliament. It is necessary to remember his great willingness to dialogue and that extraordinary ability to be, by language and style, marked by an intelligent and subtle irony, in harmony with generations so distant from him. I remember the meetings with the young people, with the young students in whom he participated with joy, always with the particular attitude of those who still had to learn. I also remember his ability to respond with calmness, always, without ever appearing weak. He did not need to shout to be heard because the contents prevailed over the tone of the voice. And it is interesting, in this particular historical and political moment that we are going through, to recall an excerpt from an interview that Oriana Fallaci did to him, who asked: But she never gets angry? And he said, The people who raise their voices and even say bad words give me such an annoyance. If you're convinced of something, you don't need to beat your fists on the table, sweat, get excited. In Italy there is a tradition of resounding controversy, shouted out. And then he concluded: "I play little, I bet little, but I usually win." With him disappeared a statesman who marked the most important stages of post-war political and institutional history and denying it means not recognizing the history of our homeland. A true man of state who has contributed with his vivid intelligence, with his profound culture, with his coherence and the values of popular Catholicism, with his capacity as a man of government, almost always in fundamental roles, to bring Italy back from the first De Gasperi Governments, to strengthen parliamentary democracy and the European vision of Italy, to keep the government action firmly in years terribly marked by terrorism. Giulio Andreotti has been a point of reference for many members and Christian Democrats for years, but he has often worked within the party, more with a unitary action than with a fraction for the benefit of his own current, and this has always been recognized by his internal rivals. I conclude by expressing once again the government's closeness to the family and friends of Senator Giulio Andreotti, a man so intelligent that he could afford the luxury not to perform it. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u33	We greet the family and the illustrious guests who followed the commemoration of Giulio Andreotti. [[The Assembly stands. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u34	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1014. I call the President of the 7th Permanent Commission, Senator Marcucci, to report on the progress of the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u35	Madam President, as regards the number of amendments tabled, the debate is continuing. Therefore, we ask that the beginning of the examination of the decree-law on the agenda be postponed until tomorrow morning at 11 a.m., so that there may be time to conclude the work in the evening or in the night, with a further margin tomorrow morning to deal with eventual occurrences. My request to the Presidency is therefore to postpone the examination of draft law No 1014 until 11 a.m. tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u36	As represented by President Marcucci and in order to allow the 7th Standing committee to complete its work on the decree-law, tomorrow's afternoon sitting will begin at 11 a.m. instead of 9.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u39	PELINO (PdL). Madam President, I have an obligation to make known to you and to my fellow senators a serious situation that my city, Sulmona, in the heart of Abruzzo, is living in these hours. The lawyers of Sulmona's forum decided to start the hunger strike to protest against the reordering of judicial geography, which also provides for the suppression of Sulmona's court. What seriously worries me is that this strike, as it has been deliberated, will be in excess and will be interrupted only when the Minister of Justice comes to Sulmona to realize the serious damage that the communities of the vast area, mostly mountainous, would suffer with the suppression of the court. I therefore call on Mr Chancellors, through this House, to take my request to heart as soon as possible, supported by local institutions and a genuine human chain. All this to avoid serious and irremediable consequences. [[Senator Razzi's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u42	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to point out to you and the House two very serious facts. Last week, exactly Monday, in my city, Brescia, a gazebo of political propaganda prepared by our militants was attacked by the usual known. But this is the least serious fact. Friday night the city secretary of our movement was quietly walking in the center of Brescia when he was attacked and beaten savagely simply because of the North League section secretary. Now, Madam President, I'm starting to be a little angry, and I don't use another word. When we talk about politically correct and perhaps someone misses a word we are outraged, while we are no longer indignant if the local secretary of a party is beaten on the street. That's the problem! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PdL and M5S Groups.]] We know that often it deals with the usual known ones, those who travel to Val di Susa, those who throw paper bombs in other situations. The thing that bothers me the most, however, is that at national level it becomes a bad word and not violence against the representative of a party. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u43	I think it is important that it is the words, but above all the acts of aggression are totally banned. Therefore, as far as the Presidency is concerned, there is solidarity with the Secretary-General of the Northern League who has been attacked.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u46	Mr Corsini (PD). Madam President, I am urged to speak from Senator Volpi's statements. These are statements that bring to light an episode of hooliganism that has worn out in my city to the detriment of the city secretary of the party of the North League. And so, having in the past had some responsibility for the administrative management of the public life of Brescia, I can only express my solidarity with my colleague, Mr Volpi, and join in the denunciation of a political struggle that is absolutely unacceptable and is utterly unbearable. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u49	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, on 9 September last, the gip in Taranto issued a measure, placing under preemptive seizure real estate and financial availability for almost one billion euros of the Riva Group. In the following days the ownership of the group decided the immediate closure of the seven plants outside the perimeter of Ilva and already on the afternoon of last Thursday the workers who were preparing to go to work on the second shift found the gates closed. So, since last Thursday there are 1,400 workers who find themselves without a job, without a salary and without any social shock absorber. The seven factories are all located in the North: one in the province of Cuneo, in the Piedmont Region; one in Verona, in Veneto; five in the Lombardy Region: three in the province of Brescia, one in the province of Varese and the last in the province of Lecco, my province. The government has already moved and in the last few hours there is a rebound between the gip of Taranto and the property. What is a fact is that, however, 1,400 workers are not working. In those seven factories there is no environmental emergency; indeed, they are factories with growing production and the foreign competitors of the steel industry are currently laughing because one of their competitors is missing. The Group of the North League, just today, has presented an urgent question to the Minister of Economic Development and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, with which they ask whether they intend, and how, to work and to work for the adoption of immediate, urgent and effective measures that allow the restoration of the operating and economic conditions of the Riva group, in order to protect the workers, but also to allow the resumption of the normal business activity of a productive sector that is considered strategic for the competitiveness of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u52	CARRARO (PdL). Madam President, I would like to refer to what my colleague from the North League said about Ilva. It is truly absurd: there is work, there are workers who can work and they must be put in the fund of integration. By the way, since the integration fund has few funds, because it has unfortunately been overexploited in this period, there is a risk of avoiding it from those who really need it in order to survive, because it is intended for this purpose. I would urge the Government, in the persons of the Minister for Economic Development, the Minister for Welfare and the President of the Council, if necessary, to examine this issue. We have converted a decree into law: if it is necessary to introduce another one, but we cannot afford to witness such a great mockery, not only for the workers, but for the entire country, because then the whole economy loses. I would ask the Presidency to interpret the need to find a solution to this problem, stating its willingness to examine a decree-law, even quickly, if it were necessary to put an end to this issue. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u53	Thank you, Senator Carraro. We'll interpret your need.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u56	CUOMO (PD). Madam President, I am speaking because on 20 September three years ago - it was 2010 - a woman was brutally killed. The case aroused much emotion in the country: this woman was called Teresa Buonocore. I met her personally, she was my fellow citizen. Teresa Buonocore was 51 years old and was murdered on the way to work, in an area called the French Bridge (it is the area of the junction of the port of Naples, close to the city of Naples and the city of Portici). This woman had been wronged to defend her underage daughter sexually abused by a pedophile who had already been convicted in a first trial and who was later found guilty as the instigator of the killing of Teresa Buonocore. This person, sentenced to life imprisonment by the Assize Court of Naples, was able to take advantage of a notary service while being held. On 21 January 2012, a notary, after having been authorized, upon request addressed to the court of appeal of Naples, to the fifth section and to the gip of office 26, entered the penitentiary in which the man in charge of the murder was held, already sentenced for crimes of pedophilia. On that occasion he managed to have a special prosecutor signed by the prisoner, who was then - I repeat - sentenced to life imprisonment as the sender of the killing of Teresa Buonocore. When Perillo was found guilty in the court of Assize, a commission of EUR 200,000 was decided as compensation for the damage against Teresa Buonocore's two underage daughters and the amount of the damage owed to the civil parts was determined. However, in June 2012, the sentenced person's special prosecutors sold his real estate. I therefore intervene not only to commemorate the figure of this extraordinary woman who put the defense of her daughter before her own life, but also to point out, taking advantage of her Presidency, Senator Fedeli, a further case of malpractice in our country: the civil parts will not be compensated, because he has allowed a prisoner already sentenced for serious crimes to be able to take advantage of a notary service in the institute of punishment in which he was imprisoned, thus allowing the disappearance of real estate, sold by his brother and his wife as special prosecutors. Mine wants to be not only the memory of Teresa Buonocore, but also the memory of a woman who believed in the State and in justice. I appeal to this House and to its sensitivity as President so that this case of malpractice can, at a time when there is so much talk of justice, draw attention to ordinary citizens like this extraordinary woman: an Italian woman, a woman from the South, a woman who believed in institutions. May he rest in peace and have justice. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and Senator Airola groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u57	I believe that we all agree - and the Presidency certainly does - with the words expressed by Senator Cuomo, whom I thank.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u60	GRANAIOLA (PD). Madam President, Costa Concordia is back on its feet, the world is moving and the island of Giglio is exulting. As Tuscan senators, we want to express our gratitude to the Head of Civil Protection, government commissioner for Giglio, Franco Gabrielli. As Italians we are proud that a recovery operation like this, which has seen 500 men at work, has gone well despite the weather conditions not excellent. The recovery of the bodies of the Indian waiter Russell Rebello and the Sicilian Maria Grazia Trecarichi remains our priority, as Franco Gabrielli confirmed. We hope that the operations carried out so far will lead us to this result, which we consider very important. I wanted to point out, at least for once, something that we did well and with great professionalism. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u61	This night and this important event have been an emotion for everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u62	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-103.ana.u63	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 18 September, in two public sessions, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.48 p.m.
