ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 4 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u4	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, yesterday we reported to the House the case of the two Kazakh women who were improperly - and I use euphemism - handed over to foreign authorities, even though they are on Italian territory. Well, following our intervention, Senator Giuseppe Esposito specifically said: If for some parties it is not possible to have information for existing international agreements, there is the COPASIR that is delegated to examine such episodes...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u5	Excuse me, Senator Morra, if you are referring to a speech at yesterday's afternoon sitting, that is not the subject we are now discussing. We'll talk about it this afternoon. We are now approving the minutes of the afternoon sitting on 4 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u6	Yes, Mr President, but precisely in relation to this, I wanted to understand what the COPASIR had to do with it and if Mr Giuseppe Esposito had information as Vice-President of COPASIR himself.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u7	I understand, Senator Morra. We'll talk this afternoon, if you don't mind. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u8	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u9	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u10	The next item is the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 813 and 343. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the draft Constitutional Law No 813, of the Government's own initiative, establishes a Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms. As the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Letta, and Minister Quagliariello have said on several occasions during numerous meetings in the Commission and also during a debate in the House, the path is not intended to inaugurate a constituent process, but merely to activate what is called the exercise of an established power, which is confined to the revision of the second part of the Constitution. Legitimate concerns and a very heated debate had accompanied the start of the constitutional review process when this, on the basis of the indications from the so-called Committee of Wise Men constituted by President Napolitano, seemed oriented to contemplate the hypothesis of a joint committee of parliamentarians and lay people, which would ensure precisely the reforms of the second part of the Constitution. This text has another sign. It reiterates Parliament's central role; Parliament is entrusted exclusively with the reform process. With regard to the content of constitutional reforms, the work of the Chambers remains absolutely central. The procedure required further analysis and analysis of every aspect involved, and I must say that the work in the Commission has seen very detailed reflections and critical considerations that have been very useful, not only for the completeness and quality of our work, but also for its promptness. I would like to take this opportunity right now to thank not only all my colleagues who have participated very actively and assiduously in the work of the Commission in order to enable us to come to this House today with a meditated text, and I must also say that I am assisted by a large majority, but also by the Offices, which have contributed with their work and with their excellent cooperation to the definition of the text. Article 1 provides for the establishment of a Parliamentary Committee, consisting of twenty Members and twenty Senators, appointed by the Presidents of the Chambers among the members of the Constitutional Affairs Committees of the Chamber and Senate. The Presidents of the two Commissions in question shall take over the Committee's Presidency in law, and an amendment specifying that they are members of the Committee in addition to the members appointed has been accepted. It will not escape my fellow senators that the Committee's equal composition is faced with a need and concern, which I believe to be absolutely justified, about the disproportionality existing between the number of members of the Chamber and those of the Senate, disproportionality accentuated by the majority prize, which allowed the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. This concern is absolved by the Committee's equal composition and, subsequently, also by the analysis of the texts which will be hesitated by the Committee from each branch of Parliament. Members shall be appointed on the basis of the nomination of the parliamentary groups on the basis of a new criterion on which the Commission has drawn attention. It is a criterion that combines the numerical consistency of the Group with the criterion of the percentage of votes obtained from the list or coalition of lists. The same attention was paid to the need to ensure that at least one representative per group and one representative of linguistic minorities were present. In an amendment, the Commission further considered that the representative of linguistic minorities should be elected to one of the districts in regions whose special status provides special protection for these minorities. No one can escape the fact that the question of the composition of the Committee and the adoption of a new criterion is something on which, of course, particular attention must be paid, so that the representativeness of the Groups is ensured in such a way as to allow work, and also a climate within the Committee which is as fruitful, fruitful and serene as possible. I must say that on this point they have been tabled by the colleagues of the League of Amendments, in particular one which concerns precisely the power of the Presidents regarding the composition of the Committee and the allocation of the proportional quota to each of the parliamentary groups represented in the House and the Senate. It is a further point of study. Let me say that, in agreement with my colleagues, the general discussion of this measure will not be a ritual act. On this point and on others, the rapporteur, in agreement with the members of the Commission, intends to use the general discussion to formulate any subsequent amendments that are better suited to the needs proposed, not only by the members of the Commission, but by how many fellow senators intend to intervene and propose their own positions. A central issue is the time-scanning of the process. It is obvious that the setting of deadlines does not only have a regulatory function of the process, but also has the task of imposing deadlines that are verified and verifiable in relation to the progress of the work. Every time it was possible to correct these deadlines in a more reasonable way, the Commission intervened by adopting amendments. It is clear that we do not reason for peremptive terms. Perhaps it is good to clarify that, because even the public debate on this point is sometimes not precise. These are not peremptory terms, but they are terms that have an exquisitely political meaning, because on the one hand they are an expression of the desire to achieve a positive result, on the other hand they mean the determination that Parliament takes on the absolute necessity of reforms, especially considering the many, too many failures that have marked the path of constitutional reforms in recent years. As regards the time limits referred to in Article 1, the Commission first referred to the time limit laid down in paragraph 2. We have reduced all the time that could be reduced with the activation of the parliamentary groups so as to allow as soon as possible the constitution of the Committee that would concern the convocation of the same by the date of approval of the law. This allows us not only to speed up the process, but also to recover time to better meditate on texts by the Committee. In this sense, as you will recall, on a path that is identified and that must last eighteen months, we have considered to extend the time available to the Committee for the investigation of draft laws from four to six months. In the Commission we also considered reducing the number of members of the Committee's Bureau: in addition to the two Presidents who are members of the Committee by law and the two Vice-Presidents, we have provided for two secretaries instead of the four initially envisaged, and a rule has been inserted which prohibits the possibility of replacing the members of the Committee, not even for a single sitting. It is a point on which, of course, there has been a deepening and discussion in the Commission, but which the Commission itself has considered central: the Committee must work in the same composition, also in order to exalt what we believe - I am speaking on behalf of the Commission, of course - one of its strengths, namely to follow all the reforms from start to finish and therefore to be able to grasp and implement the need for consistency of the work that is being carried out, not only with regard to the internal coherence of each measure but also - I could say above all - with regard to the overall systematic coherence of the work that will be carried out on the different stages of reforms. Another point of priority for the Commission was the Committee's competence. The draft law provided for it to examine the draft laws relating to the articles in Titles I, II, III and V of Part II of the Constitution relating to the matter of the form of State, the form of Government and bicameralism, as well as the consistent draft ordinary law on the reform of electoral systems. The Commission has taken further steps on these two issues. Firstly, it was considered to remove the explicit reference to the words "form of state", "form of government" and "bicameralism", for the reason that the expression "form of state", as many colleagues know, has been and is the subject of a particularly heated debate that could deviate about the interpretation of the scope of competence and the possibilities of the reform work; and also because we felt that we did not use expressions that do not use in the Constitution and therefore, although used, for example, in the founding law of the bicameral Commission, they could appear to be technical. The second concern was to ensure the consistency of the Committee's final work, as I said, both with regard to the systematic coherence of each bill and its autonomy and with regard to the overall coherence of the system that will be achieved at the end of the reform process. In this sense, of course, the Committee is given the competence to act exclusively - I do not use the same expression as you will find in the article, but I will come back to this - those changes that are essential to maintain the systematic coherence of the reformer intervention. The other question concerned the power of the Committee, or rather, rectius, to confer on the Committee powers in electoral matters. Here too, the Commission has endeavoured to define precisely the scope of the Committee's competence by reserving it exclusively for electoral purposes to modify the electoral systems of the Chamber and Senate as a result of any constitutional changes. Therefore, the power of the Constitutional Affairs Committees of the House and Senate to proceed, should they assign and insert electoral reform measures, regardless of the work of the Committee, and I would say before the constitutional reform and subsequent reforms of the electoral systems of the House and Senate, a modification of the current electoral law in force, remains intact. Since we have taken very seriously the issues raised, on which I have just spoken, namely those relating to the Committee's competence and, in particular, its strict demarcation, this is a point on which the rapporteur, following the debate, reserves the right to return and possibly also to submit further amending proposals, should it appear from the debate in this House that the wordings adopted do not seem to be fully satisfactory in relation to the requirements which have been expressed in the Commission: and this despite the fact that the text submitted to the House, in the opinion of each of us, already contains a precise and precise definition of the Committee's competence. A further innovation breaks the heated debate that had developed before the presentation of the Government's draft law on the Committee's parliamentary powers. As my colleagues know, it has obviously been envisaged that the Committee should examine the draft laws in the referee (in accordance with Rule 72 of the Constitution, which prohibits examination in the drafting of constitutional amendments) in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. As has already been the case with other bicameral committees, the Committee is expected to adopt, by an absolute majority of its members, additional rules for its operation and for the performance of its work. This is similar to that provided for in the Constitutional Law which established the Bicameral Reform Commission in the 13th legislature. Of course, a clause has been introduced in this respect which reaffirms the primary value of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Deputies. With regard to the appointment of rapporteurs, welcoming a suggestion which emerged in the debate in the Commission, it was made clear that the Presidents of the Committee appointed one or two rapporteurs per measure and that, where the rapporteurs are two, one should be a Member and the other should be a Senator. This is another way to work on that rebalancing on which much of the debate had focused before the presentation of the Government's bill. Paragraph 6 of Article 2 provides that, at the end of the examination, the Committee shall transmit to the Presidents of the Chambers the texts of the draft law or the unified texts, adopted as the basic text. It will therefore be the Presidents of the Chambers who will receive the amendments made by Members and senators respectively, and then forward them to the bicameral body. This is an important point, which probably needs to be clarified: the Presidents of the Chambers will receive the amendments, in order to make the first assessment of the admissibility of the amendments themselves. It will then be up to the Presidents of the Committee, when examining the draft law by that body, to assess the admissibility of the texts, and then there will be opinions on the substantive aspects. An amendment tabled by colleagues from the North League introduced an important innovation: the Committee was given the power to consult local authorities in order to involve them in the reform process. This is of course an important point, since the field of constitutional reforms provides for the reform of Title V of the Constitution and therefore a matter on which consultation of territorial autonomy is necessary, as well as extremely useful and appropriate. In Article 3, we have settled another sensitive point, which concerns the work of the Chamber and Senate Assemblies, which examine the texts defined by the Committee in the referent; and we have ruled out that the two branches of Parliament are dealing at the same time with separate proposals. This is also due to a practical reason: the Subcommittee (or the so-called Committee of Nine, to use the terminology of the Rules of Procedure), which is obviously composed of Members and Senators, would not otherwise be able to follow the work of the two Assemblies in one branch and the other of Parliament. However, I think I must stress another requirement, which is exactly that of continuous tension to the systematic coherence of the overall work that we must do, which can only be assured if - pass me the metaphor - the pieces of the puzzle are studied and observed also in their location and in the possible consequences that can be determined on the rest of the system and also in the relationship between the different constitutional bills, with a work that sees precisely the Assemblies occupied one at a time on each text. The limits proposed to the emendability of the text are well known to this House and are those provided for by the Rules of Procedure for certain ordinary legislative procedures, with reference, for example, to the draft stability law and European law. We have worked to extend the time available to those entitled to submit sub-amendments, which are each Group President or at least twenty Members or ten Senators, compared to the government's amendments. In other words, we wanted to establish a more costly procedure for the Government to allow the House and the Group Presidents - as has already been said - or the ten senators or twenty Members, entitled to submit sub-amendments, to have sufficient time to examine the Government's proposal and possibly to study sub-emendant hypotheses. I have for a long time focused on the need for the systematic coherence of the texts and to a lesser extent on their autonomy. This is, however, an issue that I would like to discuss now with the debate on the discipline of the referendum contained in Article 5 of the draft law. The need for each constitutional text to be autonomous in itself, as well as consistent from an internal and external point of view, is strictly functional to the fact that, with a strengthening of the guarantee provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution, it is provided that each approved constitutional amendment text may be submitted to a referendum even if it has a two-thirds majority, therefore the majority however required by Article 138 of the Constitution in the presence of which this article does not provide can be given rise to a referendum. The Government's will - I must say shared by the Commission and frankly, I believe, also by many parties in the public debate - bears witness to the continued interest in the fact that constitutional reform laws are then further sanctioned, despite being approved by a very large majority, by the electoral body. However, it is also a testimonial that has followed our whole debate and has found, in different forms, presence and dignity in our debate, first, and it will also find a substantial echo in this House. I refer to the fact that, beyond the instrument of the referendum, with action by the Government, on which Minister Quagliariello will certainly not hesitate to report, and with a common commitment adopted in the Commission, the work of the Committee can be followed not only with the ordinary tools of advertising, but also with means of participation through the use of an online platform. This certainly represents an innovation in the way the Senate works and I believe that it is one of the positive and fruitful fruits of a debate, which has involved in particular the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, who, on the subject of advertising and participation in the Committee's work in a public debate, have strongly insisted on their amendments, and still insist on an agenda. Article 7 lays down the conditions for the termination of the duties of the Committee (after completion of the work or the termination of the term of office). Article 8 regulates operating costs and Article 9 lays down the traditional entry into force clause. This bill is combined with that of Senator De Poli, connected to that of government initiative and which is proposed to absorb. It provides for the establishment of a Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms composed of 35 MPs and 35 senators, appointed respectively by the Presidents of the House and Senate on nomination of the Groups in order to respect the existing proportion, and with a Bureau of Presidents. The same draft law provides for a derogation from the revision procedure referred to in Article 138 of the Constitution: the reference phase, instead of taking place in the two branches of Parliament, is entrusted to a single bicameral body, which is responsible for the task of drafting the text to be submitted to the Chambers. The Commission observes the rules laid down by constitutional law and those of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as they apply. By 30 June 2014, according to the proposal, the Commission must send the Shareholders' Meeting for examination and approval of one or more projects on each of the subjects covered by Part II of the Constitution. At the end of the procedure, which in the first part (ordinary) requires two deliberations, as provided for in Article 138, a mandatory confirmation referendum is introduced within three months of the date of publication of the constitutional law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the work carried out so far by the Commission and the main issues we discussed during the debate, which was, in my opinion, an example of how we can, even in the diversity of approaches and opinions, contribute to the construction of joint work. We all attach great importance to this day. It is true that for now we are stopping at the adoption of the procedural law, but I believe that it is already a challenging step, because it will describe the intent, the will and - let me say - also the climate with which we move into such a delicate field as that of constitutional reforms, so demanding, but also so inescapable because of past failures. I would like to thank Mr Quagliariello because, from this point of view too, the Commission's work has been an example of constant, thorough and active participation in the work done by Members of Parliament. It seems to me that our work also needs good institutional practice. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u12	I declare that two questions have been referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. I call Senator Campanella to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 5 Star Movement, with the question of a preliminary ruling, Mr QP1 asks that the Senate Act No 813 should not be examined for some reasons. The current parliamentary assemblies have been elected by a law whose constitutional legitimacy has been strongly doubted, as an authoritative source. We believe that this should be a brake on the proposals for constitutional revision. We note, among other things, that the changes that we are now preparing to make are not small in size. With this bill, in fact, we are preparing to define a derogation from the normal system of revision of the Constitution, with the intention of going to bring to the Constitution very, very important changes and capable of distorting the institutional order. As has happened to some scholars, the question arises as to whether what one wants to exercise constitutes the exercise of a constituent power or of a constituted power and, that is, defined and moving along the paths of constitutional legitimacy, something on which we are now going to argue. In other words, the attempt to form the Committee of which we are talking about, in its derogation from its normal way of revising the Constitution, basically lies outside the intended path and the acceptable path. Moreover, these Assemblies, elected without direct indication by the electoral corps, should have and should have limited their influence on the Constitution. With regard to the derogation from Article 138, our Constitution provides for a well-defined and extremely guaranteeing procedure for its amendment, because our Constitution is a rigid one, in the consideration made by the constituent Fathers that the Italian electoral body has particular characteristics, contrapositions between parties, a "composity" that is peculiar to it and that requires precise guarantees. Now that we are going to imagine an important modification of the Constitution and not the adjustments that the constituent Fathers predicted, how do we plan to do so? By way of derogation from that article, which provides for the power of amendment to be held in the Republican Parliament in its own seats and, in so far as it should be entered into the confirmation referendum, in the electoral corps. Going to change, as the majority proposes to do, and going to set up this Committee, substantially reduces the guarantees, the spaces of the opposition and of the individual parliamentarians, in order to speed up a process that is given in some way as already pre-educated for the discussions that have been held for years and years on the subject of the reform of the Constitution. We believe that this compression of the powers of individual Members of Parliament and of the Constitution constitutes an unacceptable derogation from the process of constitutional revision; so unacceptable that it is considered to be an intrinsic irrationality of the proposal. Moreover, this compression is also due to the indication to Parliament of time limits and limits in the powers of amendment. The fundamental problem lies in the fact that the government, through the production of a draft law, has been admitted, but also in the creation of a Committee of Wise Men, as an active part of the constituent process that is proper to Parliament. To the derogation from Article 138, which - I repeat - constitutes an improper and surreptitious flexibility of the Constitution, where it is decided to intervene more strongly on it, we also add the derogation from the fourth paragraph of Article 72, where it is stipulated that the normal procedure of examination by Parliament must be followed for constitutional and electoral laws. Basically we go to overcome, derogate and put aside those articles that guarantee the rigidity of the Constitution and, with it, all citizens, just when we intend to affect the Constitution so heavily that we go to change the architecture of the State. Finally, I would like to recall the judgment No 1146 of 1988 of the Constitutional Court, where it refers to the supreme principles of the Constitution which cannot be subverted or modified. In this sentence we speak specifically of the republican form, but the principle of rigidity of the Constitution implicitly is part of those supreme principles that we cannot derogate or subvert. That is why we in the 5 Star Movement are asking this Assembly not to proceed, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, to the examination of draft law 813. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u14	I call Senator De Petris to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have long considered, as a group, whether to present a preliminary question on the constitutional legitimacy of the constitutional bill today in our examination and we have scrupulously wanted to participate in the work of the Commission precisely in order to try to make our contribution and, through the proposition of amendments, to modify those parts which we had already considered as not fully legitimate at the time of the presentation of the measure by the Government from the constitutional point of view, in particular with regard to Article 138, as can be seen from the motion then tabled by our Group. The progress of the work and the further changes made to the draft law in the Commission's examination, in particular the amendment to Article 2 by means of an amendment by the rapporteur, have led us to present this preliminary constitutionality without delay. We believe that in order to start this process of constitutional reform the procedure provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution has been abandoned, which is, I would like to remind you, a guarantee rule that should always be held firm as provided for by the Constitutions, precisely in order to avoid that the Constitution can be changed for economic and instrumental needs and now, given the times, on demagogic and populist pushes. Article 138, although it can be amended by Parliament in accordance with the rigid constraints of the Charter, is never derogationable: it is modifiable, but never derogationable. On the other hand, there has been a choice between the use of an extraordinary constitutional revision procedure to amend Titles I, II, III and V of Part II of the Constitution, and - and this is the highly alarming point, as amended by the Commission's work - all the strictly related provisions of the Constitution or of constitutional laws. In our view, this means that we are faced with a paraconstituent power which exorbitates from the powers of Parliament and which is likely to involve, not only Title IV of the second part of the Constitution (which has been discussed extensively in the newspapers), but also the Part Before the Constitution and therefore the Republican form itself. I would advise colleagues in the Democratic Party to reread Togliatti's speech on Article 1 of the Constitution and therefore on the essence of the Democratic Republic. Therefore, when we talk about the possibility of involving the same republican form, which according to Article 139 of the Constitution cannot be the subject of constitutional revision (from here comes the just rigidity of our Constitution), we obviously do not think of a coup to return to monarchical forms, but to the essence of the Democratic Republic. We also believe that the procedure put in place with the draft law under consideration compromises two essential elements of constitutional rigidity, which - I repeat - is an immanent principle of our Constitution and to which any hypothesis of reform, and even of amendment of Article 138, must necessarily be consistent. The two elements we are debating are, in our view, essential. I am referring, first of all, to the centrality of Parliament. The draft law outlines a procedure that compresses the role and functions of the Chambers, to the advantage of the Government that, in addition to taking the initiative of the reform process, aims to see recognized a privileged regime in the exercise of the power of amendment, substantial equivalence, during the legislative process, of its powers with the powers attributed to the Committee; in our opinion, therefore, the first paragraph of Article 71 of the Constitution is disregarded, which equates the prerogatives of the Government and of each member of the Chambers in the legislative initiative, and therefore in the emendability of the rules during the legislative process; the prohibition of submission during the procedure in the Committee of preliminary, suspensive and non-transitional questions to the articles; the amendments of the Government and of the Committee, as provided for in paragraph 3 of Article 3, may be submitted sub-amendments only by a Group President or by at least 20 Members and 10 senators. If a member of the Chambers is in disagreement with the Group, the possibility of amending is precluded, deleting in fact the qualitative difference that provides for the dissent from the Group, explicit through the presentation of own amendments or, as stated in paragraph 1 of Article 84 and paragraph 2 of Article 109 of the Rules of the Senate, in the interventions. The second critical element, which contradicts the substantive principle of the procedure, is that a long, weighted and consistent regulatory process should be envisaged with the aims that are proper to any constitutional revision process, i.e. weighting and reflection. These requests are largely contradicted by the tight timing and timing of the timetable proposed by the Government and today by the text of the measure under consideration by the Assembly. In particular, the procedure outlined in Article 4, albeit lightened by the use of the verb "allow", provides for eighteen months for the conclusion of the parliamentary procedure, however peremptory term, totally unrelated to the nature of the review procedures that call for a weighted and repeated assessment of the regulatory options to be examined. This extraneousness is also found in the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 1, which provide for the replacement power of co-active designation by the Presidents of the Assembly. Another issue worthy of note, in our opinion, is contained in paragraph 3 of Article 2 in which it is expected that the Committee, when examining the draft laws assigned to it in the contact person, uses the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies; moreover, it allows to introduce further provisions for the conduct of the work, thus giving the Committee the power to self-regulation and to introduce further procedural anomalies. Article 2, which sets the timing of the Committee's proceedings, completely derogates from the legislative procedures provided for by the Senate's Rules of Procedure, as well as foreshadowing an emptying of the prerogatives of the Constitutional Affairs Committees of the Chamber and Senate. Paragraph 3 provides that the Committee will examine draft laws in accordance with the rules of the Chamber of Deputies, and under the perfect bicameralism regime this is not justifiable. The deliberate indeterminate nature of the rules of the procedure laid down in the text to our examination therefore introduces a clear element of uncertainty which inevitably leads to problems beyond time. The procedure assigned to draft law No 813 is that provided for by Article 77 of the Senate Regulation, which reduces the time taken to examine the approval procedure. All this is contrary to what is expressly provided for in the fourth paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitution, which requires the normal procedure of examination and direct approval by the Chamber (...) for the constitutional drafts of the law, thereby excluding that the abbreviated procedure may be adopted in such cases. Another issue that we consider absolutely fundamental, always with regard to the timetable and timing, is the reduction from three months to one and a half months provided for in Article 138 which, in our opinion, has been stubbornly maintained, while extending the time frame compared to the initial forecast. The last issue that we want to bring to the attention of this House is the question of the Committee's membership criterion, which, in our opinion, is, in addition to a clear forcing, another of the critical points that we consider absolutely not respecting what is required in order to ensure the principle of proportionality of the Groups. Therefore, for all these reasons we do not revisit the constitutionality requirements for the entire text of bill 813. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per group will be able to speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u19	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution of the Republic has accompanied our country for over sixty-five years. Our Constitution has allowed a country destroyed by war, proven by the fascist dictatorship and divided into two large opposing political blocs to be reborn and resurrected from its ashes without falling into the civil war. Our Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, has accompanied us in the dark and terrible years of the night of the Republic, when right-wing and left-wing terrorism and the dark plots of diverted services and no all plotted to break down democracy and narrow down the spaces of freedom. Our Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, has accompanied this country in the terrible years of the massacres of the Mafia, when a criminal power thought to oppose violence to a weak and corrupt policy thinking of overpowering it by imposing its own rules. Our Constitution, in all these long and sometimes terrible years, has been a bulwark and a garrison to protect the freedoms of all citizens, regardless of sex, race, religion or political orientation. This Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, was able to carry out its very high task because it was the result of the encounter between two cultures, the Catholic and the Communist, which could not be more different from each other and which contrasted visions of society strongly different and sometimes mutually incompatible. Yet, colleagues, yet, these two so different and contrasting cultures have been able to give our country a document of extraordinary and very high value, studied, appreciated and even taken as a model all over the world. And they were able to do so, colleagues, because the women and men who wrote our Constitution had a common past that had made them united in diversity. These men and women all came out of the dark, black and horrible tunnel of civil war and world war: the horrible tunnel of the fascist dictatorship. The constituent Fathers had experienced the horror of a country without freedom, in the hands of a corrupt despot and imbecile, which had led Italy to destruction. These constituent Fathers, even in their radical diversity of thought, had a clear principle: that freedom was a value that was independent of political ideologies, which was a common and superior good that had to be defended at all costs. The password of the constituent Fathers, colleagues, was one and only: never again! Never again did Italy have to fall into the hands of a despot. Never again did Italy have to lose the freedom regained with suffering and blood. The constituent Fathers had very clear that the great dictatorships of the twentieth century (the Bolshevik regime in Russia, fascism in Italy and Nazism in Germany) had all a common and obvious distinctive feature: all had gone to power through democratic elections and, attacking and exterminating oppositions, had then modified the form of Government and suppressed the freedoms of their own citizens. Colleagues, our Constitution was designed and purposed precisely to prevent, through an extemporaneous majority dictated by contingent factors, one party could overpower another by imposing a form of liberticide government. The instrument to prevent libertarian reforms was to provide for a rigid Constitution: a Constitution, that is, that had to follow a clearly defined path to be modified, that is, the one dictated by Article 138. Article, this, wanted by the constituent Fathers to prevent their own handstrokes of extemporaneous majorities, providing for repeated rereading of the act, minimum times between one reading and the other, qualified majorities, possibility of intervention of local autonomy and citizens. The draft law that we are going to examine today, on the other hand, derogates precisely from Article 138 of the Constitution, vulnering the principle that had been set up to protect our Constitution. An examination of the constitutional rules is entrusted to a Committee whose composition is confused and inaccurate, since the rules speak of a composition of twenty senators and twenty Members, but then there are members of the law; therefore, the composition has changed without changing the total number that is indicated in forty. The drafting of the most important rules for our country and our democracy is, therefore, brought out by Parliament, which thus is unlawfully emptied of its powers. The composition of the illegitimate Committee is confused, Mr President, unclear, and refers to excessively discretionary acts by the Presidents of the Chambers, which will determine the composition of the body in question by establishing the distribution of members between the various political forces. The re-reading times are compressed by the two Chambers, thus preventing and compressing the possibility of debating and examining in a comprehensive way the rules to be approved. The rights of Members of Parliament are being compressed, with the right to table amendments being reduced and restricted. But there is more and worse: the reform of the Constitution would already be under discussion in another body, completely extra-parliamentary, whose work is not even public. I say 'would be' because the work of this abnormal body is secret and hidden and therefore the citizens and their spokesmen in Parliament are not even able at the moment to know what reforms the Committee will be called upon to ratify. There is also an unheard-of and unacceptable imbalance in favour of the Commission, which has been granted enormous amending privileges to constitutional rules. Without extending beyond what my previous colleagues have said - and I agree with that - I would like to express clearly, strongly and unequivocally here that the 5 Star Movement considers this procedure to be totally illegitimate constitutionally and a source of enormous dangers for the democratic holding of our country. Such a far-reaching reform of the Constitution cannot be the result of an act of force of a gathering majority, but it must instead result from a wider consensus. All the provisions of the bill under discussion, however, aim to compress the spaces available to the opposition to interrogate and participate in the amendment of the Constitutional Charter. It is, therefore, precisely the risk that the constituent Fathers wanted absolutely and in every way avoid. Then there is another and not indifferent reason for opposition to this procedure. The Constitutional Court, while not repealing it in order not to leave a legal vacuum, has pronounced itself on the obvious unconstitutionality of the electoral law that has caused this abnormal majority, which, for these reasons, should absolutely refrain, for the sake of prudence and respect of the citizens, from radically modifying our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution in 1948 united a country divided and devastated by war. This change, on the other hand, risks dividing our country in an insatiable and irreparable way. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement appeals to all MPs of good will, belonging to all parties, so that, for a moment, they exceed their belongings in order to return to being, at least for once, the spokesperson of the citizens, preventing the demise of our Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u22	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to announce our vote in favour of both the preliminary constitutionality presented by the SEL component of the Mixed Group and the preliminary constitutionality on which Mr Giarrusso has just spoken for the 5 Star Movement. We believe, as Senator De Petris said just now, that the path that the Government has taken, although starting from a shared assumption, that of intervening on representative institutions to give a series of answers to the pressing demands of public opinion, in particular on the topic of the crisis of politics, does not grasp the fundamental issues of this extraordinary and dramatic historical passage that the entire country is going through. In particular, we consider this strange choice to abandon (for the first time in republican history) Article 138 for constitutional revision a vulnus. This article, in fact, although it can be amended by Parliament in accordance with the rigid constraints of the Charter, is never derogationable, as has been said. Moreover, the use of the extraordinary constitutional revision procedure, intended to amend Titles I, II, III and V of Part Two of the Constitution, as well as the constituent ordinary laws and all changes related to the previous Titles, compromises two essential elements of constitutional rigidity. In particular, we have been reminded of the centrality of Parliament and, again, the forecast of that long legislative process, a genuine constitutional guarantee, which is exactly a process consistent with the aims of each revision process. As far as the first point is concerned, the role of the Chambers seems to us to be entirely compressed for the benefit of the Commission, at a historic stage in which, on the other hand, it would be very desirable to restore political centrality to the Republican Parliament. In our opinion, the first paragraph of Article 71 of the Constitution, which equates the prerogatives of the Government and of each member of the Chambers in the legislative initiative, is disregarded, as well as the prohibition of the submission, during the proceedings, of the questions of preliminary rulings, suspensive and non-transition to articles. On the second point, that is, on the legal procedure, in the presence of a measure that completely derogates from the legislative procedures provided in particular by the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, we retain the same doubts. Moreover, the same paragraph 3 (current paragraph 4 in the text proposed by the Commission) of Article 2 provides that the Committee will examine draft laws in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, as if the Senate had already been abolished. I would urge you, fellow senators, to reflect on this point. We have all expressed doubts about the perfect bicameralism and the need to intervene, if necessary, overruled the Senate and the establishment of a federal Senate. Frankly, however, considering this organ, this Senate of the Republic, already deprived of its powers, seems to us a gigantic political error. In view, therefore, also of the completely questionable criteria for the Committee's composition, for all the reasons we have said, we do not revisit the constitutional requirements for the whole text. And we do so - let me say this, even in relation to the speeches I have heard - because we think that we really need to take great care of our Republican Constitution. We have all said that, and so will the Senators who will vote differently from us: our Constitution is the result of an extraordinary compromise, perhaps the most extraordinary compromise that has been produced throughout the history of the Republic. Different forces, the Catholic ones, the secular ones, the communist ones that gave life to the Anti-fascist Resistance, first produced an extraordinary struggle and then, probably, the highest result that could be achieved. Mr President, we who always remember - and we would like to remind you all of you - the lesson of the Fathers of the Constitution of our country, the lesson of Calamandrei and others, we really see a sidereal distance between that compromise, which was first of all a compromise of people that allowed Italy to walk the path of democracy, and this compromise of today, which, on the other hand, that Charter risks distorting. A compromise, fellow senators, without people, in which the people, different from the past years, are not there and we think they do not have the power and not even the sufficient moral legitimacy to upset our Constitution. That is why I address all of you, individually, because I listen to you often and have listened to you all these years, even when we were not outside Parliament, to declare the fidelity and fairness of our Constitutional Charter. That is why I am addressing all of you: to put at the centre of this debate the dignity of the national Parliament, the Republican Constitution and the extraordinary struggles through which these balances were achieved. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u23	I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Campanella and other senators (QP1) and Senator De Petris and other senators (QP2). It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Petris, the outcome of the vote is so evident, in this case, that I do not accept the counterproof. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u24	Mr President, President Finocchiaro has explained in detail the work done by the Commission to try to enable Parliament to carry out serious and essential work in relation to the task that this Committee has set itself. It must be said that we have been talking about reforms for thirty years. To date, many attempts have been made, however, without any result, to modernise our institutions in order to make them stronger and more efficient; but this time we have an extra push: a failure would not, in fact, be the defeat of either side, but would be the defeat of the entire political class. From 1948, the year in which the Italian Constitution came into force, until 1999 25 constitutional and constitutional laws were enacted concerning certain specific topics; I mention some of them: the modalities of election of Chamber and Senate; the number of Regions; the composition of the Constitutional Court; the criminal responsibilities of Ministers; the power to dissolve the Chambers by the Head of State; the modalities of granting amnesty and indult; the institution of parliamentary immunity; the statutory autonomy of the Regions, etc. All of these were ad hoc, targeted interventions. From 2000 onwards, however, there has been different action: except for two interventions, on the abolition of the ban on entry of the Savoy in Italy and on the concept of equal opportunities, there are only interventions on organic constitutional reform projects, but the real needs have been lost in view. In fact, we have no longer focused on specific issues, subject to some sporadic cases mentioned earlier: we have spoken about the modification of Title V of the Constitution, on federalism and on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. The inefficiency of the institutions has therefore constituted and constitutes a cost also economic that we cannot afford and that our country can no longer bear. If, therefore, compared to other countries, characterized by a more labile social fabric and by less solid economic bases than ours, the crisis has made itself felt with greater hardness and impact, the ratio is certainly to be found in the inadequacy of our institutional structure, not within reach and not in line with the decisions to be taken. There is currently a debate in the country: there are those who claim that reforms in Italy must necessarily be put in place, but there are those who believe that reforms are only a mere escamotage to which the very survival of the Executive is linked. On the subject, then, is consumed a hard confrontation. You see, we are of the opinion that reforms are essential and that it is strongly necessary to start a period of far-reaching institutional reforms that is above prejudice and the prevailing political dichotomy and gives the same reforms the same importance as social, economic and financial reforms. Institutions that work mean a stronger, more modern, more competitive Italy. In setting out a path to achieving this goal, three needs have therefore been taken into account: to ensure the centrality of Parliament, to define reasonably certain times without compressing the debate; to facilitate strong political cohesion in the two branches of Parliament, which will protect the reforms as far as possible from the tensions of everyday life. These requirements have been met in the course identified by the draft law. Parliament' s central role is assured; the time frame is sufficiently broad, but it is time to reach the target within 18 months. In addition, the decision to start with a joint chamber and Senate committee in equal composition is synonymous with a guarantee of cohesion and respect, especially when we are dealing with reforms that concern the structure of Parliament itself. In addition, Article 138 is strengthened when it comes to the possibility of requesting one or more referendums, even if a two-thirds majority is reached in Parliament. Another important aspect is also stated, which certifies the willingness to seriously implement reforms: it is, in fact, the decision to define the new electoral law together with the form of government. For too long it was thought that we could change the system by changing the electoral law alone: with what results? For the first time, it is finally recognized that the electoral law is complementary to the form of government and that it cannot, alone, determine the balance of a political-institutional system. This is also an important and winning goal. Different is the discourse that concerns the law in force. There is an order from the Supreme Court that has returned the current electoral law to the Constitutional Court; we do not know what will happen if it is deemed admissible and if so how it will be assessed. It will therefore be up to the political forces and parliamentary groups to consider whether an agreement is possible for a safeguard clause that, pending the definitive electoral law, corrects the aspects of the current law on which doubts of inconstitutionality have been expressed, thus avoiding that it is the Court to change the electoral law and also that the country is unable to go to the vote if there are events that make it necessary. Another theme that I would like to mention briefly is that of the Provinces. The Constitutional Court, in its ruling on the illegality of the provisions contained in the so-called Salva Italia decree, has paved the way for an indispensable reform of the entire planting of Title V of the Constitutional Charter. The problem therefore lies not in the usefulness or not of the Provinces, but in the ineffectiveness of the apparatus itself, at all levels of government. Our aim must be to find the method and structure that can ensure that the country has a renewed institutional structure. The hope is therefore that Parliament will intervene in a structural way on institutional reforms with interventions consistent with the constitutional set-up, achieving an administrative political structure capable of responding to social needs with a clear redistribution of competences and functions. The Commission has worked well on the aforementioned draft law, in a climate of cooperation and mutual confrontation, without the emergence of problems or any sort of hesitation. Outside, in the meantime, polemics based on nothing have broken out, because no one has ever thought of tears or amendments that had a meaning other than what was then recognized; time is gallant man and the facts have denied such speculations. In fact, I am sure that the government has understood the issue and that it follows the only possible path: that of the implementation of a serious constitutional reform in Parliament, that looks at the real needs of the citizens and a rationalization that cannot go through the abolition of fundamental elements of our institutional system; but above all a road that restores to the Belpaese that constitutional dignity that has been lost for too long. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u25	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was doubtful about my speech today in view of the sensitivity of the matter and its specificity: lawyers and professors of law are more competent than I, who am an engineer, on the subject. I would, however, like to address this issue from an organisational point of view, namely that which, in the opinion of those who have decided to adopt these new procedures for amending the Constitution, is the real strength of the path we are about to take. That is why I have examined the processes, but also the history of previous attempts to modify them, and I must say that the picture is not very encouraging. Twenty years ago, this Parliament had entrusted itself to a body, called the Bicameral, chaired by a well-known leftist exponent, which failed after so many hopes it had generated, between recriminations and mutual accusations. Then, finding that it was impossible to reach an agreement with the enemy, the season of unilateral changes began. First came the modification of Title V, Part II, of the Constitution: a disaster that we are paying for today's consequences; then the reforms of the centre-right, hit by anathema and plunged with great joy by a popular referendum. After that, nothing to this day. I said to myself: this time history will be taken into account, solid foundations will be laid for the reform process; it is about building the common home: things must be done properly. But then I thought about the history of this unfortunate XVII legislature and I thought about a Parliament that has been paralyzed for two months, without the standing committees, because it was not yet clear who the majority and who the opposition were. I have thought of a Parliament which has not been able to elect the new President of the Republic and which has found itself having to ask a 88-year-old gentleman to resubmit his candidacy: an exception to the very large constitutional practice. I was astonished at the speech by Mr Napolitano, President of the European Parliament, who confirmed the inability not only of this Parliament but also of the political class of which he was an expression. I was even more surprised to see the surreal scene of a Parliament that, beaten like never before, applauded its whistleblower. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, at that point I would have expected a leap of pride and serious planning for reforms, but once again the rationalist who is in me was wrong. How, in fact, can a Parliament that is continually exonerated by the Government, remaining unarmed, be able to decide on something? How does a Parliament that extends too many Commissioners' managements indefinitely decide to take responsibility for itself, without delegate? In fact, exactly what was predictable happened: Parliament decided, in essence, to externalise the process of building reforms. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In Italy the process of outsourcing has become simple, legal, blessed by Europe. Large industries like FIAT and others have moved labour and responsibilities in this way, adopting new employment contracts, often worsening, and sometimes closing activities, firing their workers, in the name of profit and with the excuse of the crisis. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, you are doing the same thing and you are following the same bow: if this provision passes you will certify your incapacity; more, you will certify your worthlessness. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] An external committee will decide for you what the best system is; perhaps they will argue less, but they will certainly not feel the need to confront this House. When and if they have given birth to the project, then they will have the privilege of speaking to a few of us, chosen from among us, or to a Committee, and only in the end will we be given to adopt the procedures referred to in Article 138 of the Constitution. At that point, however, will we really have decided something or will we be reduced to notaries, ready to ratify a decision made elsewhere, above the heads of the citizens? At that point, ladies and gentlemen, when we have certified Parliament's uselessness as a place where laws are formed, where outsourcing is the best solution, do you not think that someone might reasonably think that this institution, which has already been dejected and delegitized, can be legally ignored, exceeded, closed? Ladies and gentlemen, mine does not want to be an anathema and I do not want to be a novella Cassandra or a prophet of misfortune. I just want you to open your eyes, make pride prevail (not the selfish and destructive feeling, but the pride of representing the citizens of this country) and forcefully vindicate the right and duty to be protagonists of the reform process. Please, as an engineer and as an elected citizen: let us forget this madness and build together the house of the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that everyone feels the solemnity and responsibility of the moment and, in this respect, the need not to resort to easy dialectical arguments and rhetorical escape routes. From this point of view, two are - in my opinion - the considerations that emerged in the debate that deserve to be refuted. On the one hand, there is Parliament's full legitimacy that the slope of an appeal does not exclude. It is not clear why this Parliament should be delegitimized only because, in its own order, the Supreme Court raised the question of the constitutional legitimacy of the electoral law. In this way, we delegitimize ourselves, not Parliament, but the institutions. Legality is something different from politics and constitutional legality is to a greater extent so. With regard to the second consideration, Article 138 of the Constitution does not pose a problem of unchangeability, but of rigidity linked to more complex procedures that avoid what has happened under the Albertine Statute, namely the possibility of modifying the Constitution by ordinary law. There is also the limit of the revision, which cannot be a revolution in a technical-legal sense. This last hypothesis is absolutely different from that, which we are discussing and want to discuss. Having said that, I do not think that the intention process is acceptable. Let's open a process of constitutional confrontation. No one can accuse others, at the level of intellectual and political honesty, of wanting to bring about a change in the Constitution. I do not think that this can be part of a serious political dialectic, at a time of such grave institutional responsibility. It's another escape route. Let's deal with the problems. Let us remember that Parliament and the people will still have the last word. Therefore, even if Parliament were to arrive - as some fear - at solutions proper to the power not constituted but constituted, there will always be the last control of the people. That is the point on which I think we need to think very strongly. I understand that a legal argument may appear, but we are in the context of a legal process, such as the legislative process of constitutional revision. Article 138 of the Constitution is amended in two respects. First of all, the three months are brought to forty-five days, i.e. the term for so-called double reading is reduced to half. This amendment makes the possibility of a referendum out of balance even when, at second reading, draft legislation is adopted by a two-thirds majority. This is a constitutional guarantee, it is a forecast of respect for the sovereign people and, therefore, of absolute consistency with Article 1 of the Constitution. The amendment of Article 138 can be discussed. I have stated my doubts about this. I do not believe, however, that we can make that simplistic and in some ways mystifying reading, according to which the amendment of Article 138 "sells" the rigidity of the Constitution. Objectively, that's not the case. I repeat that we can be in favour or against, but that is something else. With the constituent process, however, a field of confrontation opens up, which arises from the need to efficient a system; a field that must be practiced not forgetting that democracy is fatigue and necessarily has its own times. You can't simplify everything. From this point of view, a review of the mechanisms lies in the reflections of the constituent Fathers themselves: I recall once again, in this regard, Dossetti's speech held in Parma in 1995, containing an indication of the rationalization of the parliamentary system. I believe that this idea will have to be discussed for a long time on the path that opens. However, I would like to stress another point: let us not forget that the field of confrontation is not only the form of government, which is not even a preliminary. We must face the revision of Titles I, II, III and V. It is therefore necessary that a field of confrontation be opened immediately on all these issues because the efficiency of the system passes not only through the efficiency of the parliamentary system, but, also and deeply, through the system of local autonomy and their reform. The subject of the Provinces is emblematic, whose reform must be rethought in the redesign of the system of self-government, in a clear and organic distribution of competences between active administrative and management competences. It is a system that must be modified as a whole with an overall redesign because the full elimination of the Provinces, for example, would have the only effect not to make the system efficient, but to load it with inefficiencies without spending savings. [[Applause from the PD Group]] From this point of view, I believe that the redesign must be done organically and that this is a central point of all reflection. There are also other aspects which concern the same legislative competence as Parliament. I believe this is an opportunity to redesign the subject of the decree-law from the point of view of the assumptions and limits of the contents. Again in terms of legislative competence, I believe that a reflection can be conducted against the deteriorating practice of laws or omnibus law decrees. There are so many issues on which the constituent process must start and it is essential - I repeat - that we do not identify a preliminary issue because the form of government, precisely, is not. The form of government is one of the issues that will have to be addressed, but let us avoid the mistake of blocking ourselves on this and not going on about anything else if we do not first find the solution on it. Then there is the very important issue of electoral law. I believe that on this subject the reflection that is ripening, pushed by the Democratic Party, leads to consider the need for an immediate amendment of the electoral law itself, except, then, to modify it at the end of the constituent process. I think that on this level Parliament will be able to increase its credibility no less than with the positive outcome of the reform process. I hope that a solution will be found in this regard, which will lead to guaranteeing the citizens the right of choice of their parliamentarians and introducing electoral mechanisms that effectively guarantee governability, for a reflection on the overall interest of the nation that is the first demonstration that this constituent process is a challenge of responsibility, political and institutional maturity and that it is not a rite that is put on the field to distract with respect to socio-economic issues, which remain the other point of attention on which, I believe, neither Government nor Parliament will lower their guard. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u29	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that thirty years of speeches and unsuccessful projects have made appeals and exhortations on these repetitive, appalling and unbelievable issues; yet I believe that Italy does not actually have an alternative: it can only start from the rewriting of the Constitution and the electoral system, capable of founding a genuine majority democracy. I remain of the opinion that last February's electoral results and the difficulties encountered at the beginning of the parliamentary term do not show a normal political crisis, but a deeper system crisis, which threatens to lap the same principles of political representation. It is true that the rules of the game cannot provide alibi to indolent players, on whom mainly the responsibility lies for the disaffection and protest of the voters, but I find it reductive and, in some ways, even misleading, to say that the current crisis only concerns the reliability of the political class and not the constitutional and electoral rules, especially if we consider that, as we know, the rules can still condition forms and ways of politics. It is hardly appropriate to emphasize that a weak system of government was wanted by the Constituent, so that no political side could win to the end and no one could be cut off entirely from the Government. The presence of two chambers invested with the same political powers and legislative powers is the most blatant contradiction that has no equal in other parliamentary democracies. We must therefore avoid falling into the trap of making our present institutional system the lightning rod on which to discharge all the responsibilities of the serious shortcomings of politics, but we must not escape the fundamental problem: the crisis of legitimacy of public institutions and political power. For a long time the parties have been able to compensate for the weaknesses of the institutions; now it is time to create robust institutional structures that are able to give, themselves, strength to the parties and other channels of participation. The time has come to move from an abstract invocation of policy reform to more timely reforms of political institutions. That is why we would have preferred - as we have said on other occasions - to start with the proposals and not the procedures. This government was born of exceptional cooperation; between otherwise alternative parties to make exceptional choices; therefore, we would have preferred that immediately the proposal for reform of the Government had been put on the agenda of the Committees of Constitutional Affairs, following the procedures of Article 138 of the Constitution, especially if we consider that the changes that are being discussed, many times promised and again postponed and contradicted, have already been widely debated and specified also with legislative proposals presented in this and in the past legislatures. So there is nothing to teach, it is rather a matter of choosing: if there is political agreement, there will not be a few hundred amendments calling it into question; if there is no political agreement, it will not be a parliamentary committee, even if it is special, which will create it. On the subject, I would just like to comment on one point. As we know, the Committee has an exclusive function of reference, which results in the allocation to the Committee alone of all the constitutional or ordinary draft laws presented since the beginning of the legislature. The text, with regard to the draft laws reserved for the Committee's exclusive reference examination, in paragraph 1 of Article 2, contained the words: "coherent drafts of ordinary law for the reform of electoral systems": then, after examination by the Commission, an amendment has been made which amends this wording to: "Consequent drafts of law". In both cases, the wording wanted to restrict to the general electoral subject, a smaller number of legislative initiatives: both the term "coherent" and the term "consequential" indicate the correlation of a reform of the electoral law with the constitutional reform that is being approved, as the rapporteur has also pointed out. We believe, however, that it is appropriate to point out and clarify once again that, where this correlation does not arise, the function of reference remains with the Committees on Constitutional Affairs. In the blackberries of the constitutional revision, the timing of which, according to this draft constitutional law, are necessarily long, it is necessary to agree to be able to change the current electoral law for the Chambers transiently. After all, it is not a mystery to anyone that one of the reasons for the crisis lies precisely in the inability of politicians to assume their responsibilities. Coming to a more fundamental and more general question, it is believed that in the history of united Italy it is possible to identify a robust line of continuity represented by an orthopedic and pedagogical approach to the problem of the relationship between the legal country and the real country. This approach is based on the conviction that Italy is morally and materially backward, that it must be modernised, that it must be straightened out and re-educated, as quickly as possible that it cannot be modernised other than with instruments in a political sense (the State, the public administration, the mobilization of parties and so on) and that consequently it is absolutely priority to identify the right political elite, provide it with the right tools, keep it as far away from the conditioning of society as possible. Of course, not all the history of Italy can be traced back to this line of continuity, much less we can forget the abyssal differences that separated the liberal season, the fascist and the republican one from each other. However, the orthopedic and pedagogical way of thinking about the relationship between the legal country and the real country has greatly affected our first 150 years of unitary life. Historians of great value have supported the need for this pedagogical and orthopedic approach adopted by the various Italian political elites and of course the history of that tradition is not just made up of limits and failures. However, the various re-educational projects of the country have not only failed to achieve their goals, but have often ended up leading to results exactly opposite to those they pursued, confirming in Italians the conviction that the State was not exclusively, but above all an enemy from which to defend itself. The reaction to the failure of the class of government has invariably consisted, in every period of the history of Italy, in an attempt to identify a new political class - in general also this strong propensa to orthopedics and pedagogy - that by capacity and morality gave guarantee of wanting and being able to carry out that work of reeducation and righting of the country. In this way, however, Italy continued to insist on the same question, which Karl Popper considered wrong: who should govern? Unfailingly answering, after trying and discarding one answer after another: the best. How will you remember the correct question, according to the Austrian philosopher, is another: how can we organize our political institutions in such a way as to prevent bad or incompetent rulers from doing too much harm? Here, our country has never come to the step that according to Popper marks the liberal democratic modernity, that is to change not answer, but question and ask not who should govern, but how it is possible to build an institutional mechanism that allows to peacefully replace the rulers when they think they are unfit, which in our country has always happened with much effort. Insensitivity towards the institutions is a characteristic element of the Italian story, as is the emphasis on the renewal of the political class. What always matters is who holds the power, to identify a virtuous elite that can deal with and solve quickly, radically and magically Italian problems. Even more so, what matters most of the time is to identify who should be excluded from power. What matters is never how organized, disciplined and limited power is. Well, constitutional reform remains the only possible way to create the conditions for a truly more coherent, rapid and efficient government work, especially when we consider that we act within political institutions in which, for the historical reasons mentioned, the moment of counterweights and guarantees is largely oversized compared to that of the decision. So the real rift with our national story will be to emphasize the role of the institutions and the possibility that the elites circulate according to the will of the voters. We must give ourselves, Mr President, coherent and well-functioning institutions that allow the peaceful replacement of the elites, and stop thinking that they can make Italy magically different from what it is. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u31	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u32	Mr President, as I have already pointed out, the entire process of constitutional reforms provided for by the Government's draft Constitutional Law, we do not agree with the SEL component of the Mixed Group. First of all, it is spoiled by a fundamental twist, that is to say by the fact that we have wanted - in our view, too casually - to introduce a wide-ranging derogation from the revision of the Charter, as laid down in Article 138. I have just pointed out, but I repeat, that for the first time in Republican history this article is exempted, moreover through a simplified procedure. This raises a problem of particular gravity, if only because in this way the timing of the procedure is choked and therefore it is not possible to give a thorough and serious weighting to the proposals for revision of the Charter. Moreover - and I am addressing Senator Maran in particular - we are not convinced and can not temper our judgment the forecast of a confirmed referendum. Of course, we fully agree with the idea of a confirmation referendum, but in our view this does not alter the political fact resulting from the constitutional bill that we want to denounce, that is, the risk of causing a vulnus to the Constitutional Charter. In fact, we believe that this will be the effect if we do not at least correct Article 5 and therefore clearly establish that homogeneous and autonomous texts, that is to say separate from each other, will be put to a referendum vote so as not to require a single vote for the whole of the changes made, perhaps thinking that we have more popular agreement on some measure, at this time particularly awaited by the public, but that it risks bringing with it measures instead much less expected. We believe that there is indeed a risk of overturning the Constitutional Charter and we also take it from a not insignificant detail of the parliamentary resolution that accompanied the draft law, where the formula "extraordinary constitutional revision procedure" is used. It seems to us that this formula already removes the usefulness of restricting the subjects to which it is claimed to intervene with this singular revision procedure, which is extraordinary in the sense that it is a derogation from the procedure laid down in Article 138, as I have pointed out several times today. In fact, it is a solid conviction of the doctrine that there is an intimate connection between principles and constitutional norms, because this is why any changes to the Charter must be punctual and must focus on precise topics. The fact that we want to amend a large part of the Constitution can only weaken the whole building. As proof of what is highlighted, consider that the forecast of article 2, paragraph 1, which admits modifications of every part of the Charter (and therefore also of Title I) provided closely connected, more than a reassurance represents the confirmation that the risk of twisting is not in fact avoidable when it is going to affect such extended parts of the constitutional dictation. This is because, for the very architecture of the Constitution, the delicate balances regulated by the Charter can be compromised. Moreover, I would remind you that several authoritative constitutionalists have noted that the prediction of such extensive changes as those outlined in the draft law under consideration, namely Titles I, II, III and V of Part II, which have a profound influence on the form of government, can only affect the form of the State, which, as you know, is obviously a very sensitive subject. It seems to me that this topic already has a critical profile in itself, but we would not like to give up on other open issues, starting with the issue that I have already raised of the squeeze of parliamentary prerogatives. In fact, if the possibility of submitting sub-amendments by individual parliamentarians is excluded, since this measure is reserved only for the Presidents of the Groups or at least 20 Members and 10 Senators, it is clear that the same prerogative of the legislative initiative of the Government and of the individual parliamentarians, provided - as we know - by Article 71, first paragraph, of the Constitution is disregarded. In our view, it is also unconvincing, Mr President, that the draft law provides not only for the use of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies in the examination of individual draft laws, but also for the withdrawal of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies from the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. As I have already said, it will be true, Mr Quagliariello, that the reform of the perfect bicameralism seems no longer to be postponed, because it is a rage of the people, if I may use this expression. But it seems that it was intended to be realized, let's say, de facto before de iure, and this thing worries us not a little. As it is not a small detail the stifling of the times of the debate, for which in fact the constitutional bill is equated to a norm of ordinary law, cutting down the times provided for by the ordinary procedure of revision according to which, between one resolution and the other of each of the two Chambers, they must spend three months to allow them an adequate weighting and a serious reflection (for this reason exactly). It is not just the question of opportunity that needs to be considered here. Here, too, we are dealing with a constitutional rule, namely Article 72, which, through the combined provisions of the second and fourth subparagraphs, requires the normal procedure of examination and approval for draft laws in constitutional matters. We consider this stunt to be inappropriate, and we think this even more because this is made clear by the provision of Article 4, which indicates the 18-month deadline for the conclusion of the procedure, again in this case, by a break with the procedure provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution, which is further amplified by the provision of substitute powers for the co-active designation of the Presidents of the two branches of Parliament when one or more Groups do not appoint their representatives to the Committee within five days. In addition, we would like to highlight another which, in our opinion, appears to be a violation, in particular, of Article 72 of the Constitution, such as that which entails a derogation from the composition of the special committees. If, in fact, this article provides that the Commissions should reflect the proportion of the parliamentary groups, paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the draft law under consideration combines the double criterion of the numerical consistency of the parliamentary groups and the number of votes obtained by the lists and coalitions, which is, as we understand, only an abstractly correct path. I think I can say, and I do not have to explain it here, that this introduces an element of possible will into the composition of the Commission, which can be exercised according to all political choices and assessments. That too seems to me quite obvious. I would like to say, if ever there is still a need, that even this last provision, which is to be read in conjunction with the almost null amending power granted to Parliament, shows that the two Chambers risk being reduced at least to entities emptied of their prerogatives and being completely subordinate. It is as if the procedure anticipates its outcome, that is, as if the effect were before the cause. We would like to say this as clearly and clearly as possible: we do not think it is right, that it is correct to pay this price for the survival of the present Government. Less than ever do we think that there should be any link between institutional reforms and the reform of the electoral law. On the contrary: free yourself now, immediately, the field from the "porcellum" and immediately restore the previous electoral law, that is, the "Mattarellum." We believe that only in this way, by clearing the field of blackmail and cross-border vetoes, can a serious reform of the Constitutional Charter be put in place which adapts the new Charter to the questions, without overwhelming its spirit and without surreptitiously changing the form of parliamentary government, but rather by bringing the Republican Parliament and politics back to the functions and prerogatives which they are entitled to and which we will defend to the end. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed Groups and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u33	Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I personally, as well as the Group to which I belong, believe that this further attempt to reform our form of government and many important parts of the Constitution is right. I hope and believe - and I say this to Mr Quagliariello, to Mr Finocchiaro and to ourselves - that this is the right time: too many times we have tried in Parliament to change, to facilitate, to make everything more efficient and then to bogged down in the end. Look, colleagues: there is no escape to anyone who, together with the economic crisis, which grabs a very large part of this country, the political inability, demonstrated in particular in the previous legislature, especially to reach an agreement on electoral reform, which was a step away from reaching the Senate, was one of the fundamental reasons for an important disaffection of public opinion towards the traditional political forces, and I also believe in the success, beyond what is anticipated, of the 5 Star Movement. I want to say that the more we continue to try reform paths that do not come to an end, the more the charms on the fire of anti-politics, or at least of the dispute, are fed, at this point I would say legitimately, because if we are not able every time to reform a Constitution, no matter how beautiful it is (up to 1948, an institutional and political moment, post-war and post-fascist dictatorship, which was naturally contingent) this certainly goes to our demerit. I therefore believe that this is a fair attempt; I think that an important balance has been achieved, also thanks to the work that the Commissions, and in particular the constitutional affairs, have been able to do with the Government and with the political forces. I think everything can be improved, but we have to go and be fast. The opinion of those who say that we must not deal with this matter, which people do not eat today with institutional reforms, is absolutely irrefutable. It is wrong, first of all, because there are so many of us: 1,000 Members of Parliament can very well deal with the revival of the economy, employment and even institutional reforms; we must not all be focused on a particular subject. We have the possibility, the tools, the numbers and the will to do so. Secondly, because a more efficient, less bureaucratic state, with a more active government and a Parliament capable of giving faster answers to the questions of society, is a state that approaches citizens and their needs: it is a return to the policy of collecting consensus to solve people's problems. Often, compared to what we are proposing in the electoral campaign, with such an important burden of institutional architecture, with all good will, we are not able to put into practice all our intentions. Therefore, a more efficient state also means better economic reforms; it means being ready to seize economic cycles, and ultimately means more employment, being more modern. Therefore, for the future of us and of the new generations a commitment is absolutely necessary to make this state more efficient. Perhaps the failures of the past years have led us to this institutional, political and economic cul de sac in which this country unfortunately pours. Compared to the electoral law, I personally believe that the double turn of college with semi-presidency is absolutely a useful tool for reforming this state. I also think that, by now electing the Italians directly the mayors and presidents of the Regions, we have all the institutional antibodies to give this turning point to the State as well. However, even in order not to make yet another fool of what the Constitutional Court has already told us, we must first launch an electoral reform, or in any case be equipped and ready to go and vote without this damn electoral law that the Constitutional Court, as well as the citizens, challenge us. I know that in many parts, especially on my political side, the centre-left, the return to the Mattarellum and the colleges is hoped for. Apart from this, we could discuss it, because the colleges also had a form of candidacy that had fallen from above and removed from the territory, and it was already known before what the results would have been (so perhaps even in that case the freedom of choice of citizens was questionable, but anyway it was much better than this electoral law), at this time, with this political majority, with this Parliament, we must try to change the electoral law if there is to be a precipitate of events. The compromise. The word has been muzzled. But it is wrong, because compromise comes from the Latin cum promise, promise us one thing together. It is wrong that compromise is a delegitimized and delegitimizing word - we have delegitimized it - because politics is also the art of compromise. If we are in a Parliament in which our idea, for the electoral result, cannot go forward, we must prepare ourselves, with the other political forces that are in place, to ensure that the current electoral law, at least at first instance, can be changed immediately, giving citizens the opportunity to choose, perhaps thinking about what we have done for the municipalities. In fact, I do not understand why we never talk about introducing double preference even in the general elections. We did it for the municipalities, whether you vote in Locri, Reggio Calabria, Monza or Rome. People with dual preference promote substantial gender equality in the institutions and have the option to choose. I believe that at first we could change the "porcellum" with double preference, putting a barrier threshold for the majority prize, because it does not seem aberrant to me, and talk about a regional distribution of seats, at least as far as the Senate is concerned. I think a first maquillage can be done if you want to. Then, if each of us remains in our positions - we want the colleges, others because they want us not to touch this law, perhaps because it allows a leader, of all parties, to make electoral lists - we must not complain if we see a further 30% increase in political forces in the next elections, which rightly oppose the more traditional parties. I close on bicameralism: I am in the Senate, which will most likely be the House most affected by constitutional reform. Some authoritative colleague approached me by talking about the virtues of bicameralism, that is, the possibility of correcting laws that had been wrong in the other branch of Parliament and the need for greater regulatory deepening. These arguments do not convince me because the final result in fact is that it legislates the government. 90 percent of our time is spent either converting decree-laws or transforming government law into law. The centrality of Parliament has been distorted, so much so that we fill our mouths. Objectively, legislative initiatives by individual Members, more than approval in the Commission or, perhaps, in the House they belong, do not go. Instead, I think that bicameralism needs to be reformed and that there must be only one chamber that reads. However - I come from the provincial and regional experience - I am not very convinced (I say to President Finocchiaro and Minister Quagliariello) the Senate of the Regions or the local autonomy. I therefore ask you to go further on the subject of the model of the American Senate, that is, a much leaner Senate than the present, that does not have a legislative function identical to that of the Chamber, that has important functions of representation of the Central State, with senators that in certain matters, I think of those typical of the American Senate... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Astorre, I invite you to conclude. Mr ASTORRE (PD). I ask that this reflection be carried out on the model of the Senate: to maintain it, but with a function of state guarantee. I mean, we have the last chance to reform. This time either we do it or we are really in danger of being overwhelmed by citizens. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zanettin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u36	Mr President, Mr Quagliariello, ladies and gentlemen, what we are experiencing is indeed a historic opportunity to undertake a thorough review of the form of government of our country. This reform, however, has been mentioned for over thirty years. We can really do this reform, in this extraordinary season in some ways, with a majority of broad understandings, the only possible result of the election. We insist on calling this majority strange, but it is strange only in Italy, and certainly not in Europe where, on the other hand, broad agreements are tested without scandal whenever it is necessary to launch important reforms which, as such, require broad sharing. This majority has, for a singular astral conjuncture, on the one hand the need to launch these reforms, in pain of losing credibility and its own reason to be and, on the other hand, the strength to launch them, on the strong push for change that rises from the country. Woe, then, to miss this unrepeatable opportunity. The Commission of the 40 or, better, of the 42 (the so-called bicameralina), provided for by this constitutional bill, will enable us to speed up the time taken to launch the reform by amending the procedure laid down in Article 138 of the Constitution. It is good that it has only a referent and non-drafting character. It is good that it guarantees the centrality of Parliament in this reform process, respecting the spirit of the constituent Fathers. It is good that, under certain conditions, it provides for a popular referendum, even if it is approved by a majority of more than two thirds. It would have been quite different, however, for us to judge the Convention which, as it was supposed at a certain stage in the political debate, would have emptied Parliament of its roles and functions. In this debate on reforms, I want to introduce a subject which, in my opinion, has been completely neglected in the public, academic and media debate and, when it was introduced, was immediately expelled. I am referring to the Constitution as a factor in the economic competitiveness of a country. Let us remember that about 35% of our huge public debt is still in the hands of foreign investors. We like it or not, the refinancing of our debt, our rating, the notorious spread, in essence our well-being and our future development depend on the opinion that we have in the rest of the country. We like it or not, even our institutions, our way of working in Parliament and our form of government do not escape that judgment. I ask you, then, Minister Quagliariello: a Constitutional Court like ours that, in order, cancels the contribution of solidarity on the highest incomes; declares illegal Article 19 of the Workers' Statute on representation in the RSU; and, finally, rejects the cancellation of the provinces constitutes an element of competitiveness of our country system? Or, instead, is it just a factor of rigid and bureaucratic conservatism that little adapts to the needs of the moment? In the light of these decisions, is a multinational company induced to invest its resources in Italy or, if anything, to relocate the residual investments still present in our country? We shouldn't be surprised if Italy, according to the International Institute for Management Development in Lausanne, ranks in 2013 only at the 44th place in the world in the ranking of competitiveness. A few weeks ago, a report was published by the JpMorgan business bank, which raised a great scandal. What did the JpMorgan bank say that was so upsetting? I quote: When the crisis began - alludes to the economic crisis - the idea was widespread that these intrinsic limits had a purely economic nature (...). But over time it has become clear that there are also political limits. The political systems of the countries of the South (of Europe), in particular their Constitutions, adopted following the fall of fascism, have a number of characteristics that appear unsuitable to favour the greater integration of the European area. Against these judgments, immediately raised of shields, parliamentary questions, sarcastic comments of the usual well-thought-out, conformist and politically correct commentators. But these reactions are only clear proof of the provincialism and self-referentiality of our debates. In fact, much of the arguments put forward, apart from some obvious excesses of criticism of the protection of labour and the weak, in the opinion of those who speak, are largely acceptable. It is true that our Constitution was launched after the war and served the mutual distrust of the PCI and the DC. It is true that a system of weights and counterweights, son of another age, has made our democracy incapable of making decisions, of adapting the country to the changed political, economic and demographic contexts. It is true that weak Executives have emerged. It is also true that our regionalism, with the exception of some rare, indeed very rare, virtuous examples, has proved to be a source of waste of resources and corruption, expressing on too many occasions a very mediocre ruling class. It is true that in our system electoral consensus is all too often achieved with clientele practices and that this then prevents the political forces targeted by this consensus from real reformative action. It is therefore clear why our Constitution, in some parts of it, is now outdated and what the reform must aim for. Let us, therefore, leave aside the inconclusive debates. Ladies and gentlemen, let us change this bicameral, let us give ourselves certain times and let us get to work. Perhaps, in doing so, we will recover some of the credibility lost in the eyes of the citizens, and our country will also recover some image abroad. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u37	Senator Scalia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I have been very concerned about the desirability, if not about constitutional legitimacy, of a draft law introducing a one-off derogation - but having very long-lasting effects by definition - from Article 138 of the Constitution in order to carry out a comprehensive revision of our Constitutional Charter. This is because - as many have said here - we are touching on a crucial principle of our Constitution: the constitutional rigidity that is placed in function of the preservation of its essential characteristics. A rule, moreover, Article 138 of the Constitution, which aggravates the process of constitutional revision in a less heavy way than is provided for in other laws, so much so that the same rapporteur of the norm in the constituent Assembly, Paolo Rossi, wondered if the solution then chosen should not be rather talk about a constitution not rigid, but semi-rigid. But much more serious concerns have arisen from the introduction, since the 1990s, of majority electoral laws or in any case characterized by the presence of majority prizes, which allowed parliamentary majorities representing only electoral minorities to approve, in 2001 and 2005, significantly incisive reforms of Part II of the Constitution, seriously weakening - regardless of the merit - the guaranteeing scope of Article 138 and the other quorums provided for in the Constitution. However, there is a clear and pressing political need to close the debate on constitutional reforms which has been going on for more than thirty years now, characterised by aborted attempts and reforms which, as I said, have been played on one side of the political side against the other. The draft law in question surely responds to this need, defining a procedure that allows to deal, according to a coherent plan, with the reform of the second part of the Constitution, already favoring with the criteria for the constitution of the bicameral Committee the widest sharing of the same and planning a sure time that allows to arrive in port in a defined time. All this is done by attenuating a lot, if not eliminating altogether, the highly problematic profiles in terms of consistency with our constitutional structure of the proposal of the essays appointed by the President of the Republic, which had recorded the significant dissent of a scholar of the carature of Valerio Onida, whose remarks today are almost entirely accepted. In fact, the draft law we are about to approve preserves the deliberative centrality of the two legislative assemblies in the process of constitutional revision, assigning to the bicameral committee only reference powers, thus overcoming one of the greatest doubts deriving from the establishment of a drafting Commission that would have forced the House to express itself in a dry and without any amending power, thereby also derogating from the provision of Article 72, fourth paragraph, of the Constitution. In addition, the draft law balances the compression of the times with a wider possibility of recourse to the confirmation referendum, whose indictment is made possible on this occasion also in the event that the draft is approved at second reading with a majority of two thirds of the members of each Chamber. Finally, an important supplementary provision states, unlike the constitutional laws of 1993 and 1997, that the draft laws approved by the procedure under consideration would be submitted to the voters formulated in separate questions, each with its own homogeneity, thus removing any potentially plebiscytic characterization typical of the involvement of the electoral body in the form of a block vote on heterogeneous objects. In fact, it must be said that this last choice, although unexceptionable from a systematic point of view, risks having some problematic effects on which I would like to draw the attention of the Presidency and the House. What would happen, in fact, if several constitutional bills, relating to the different Titles of Part II of the Constitution, but parts of a single reformist design, so much so as to have one's own justification in the other, were to bring back different popular judgments, confirmation in some cases and rejection in others? In short, while we can say that the genuineness of popular expression is adequately preserved, the coherence of the reform plan of Part II of the Constitution, the outcome of the referendum, the state does not say that it is. Although the point has already been the subject of the attention of the Commission and the rapporteur, Senator Finocchiaro, this is a very difficult technical solution. This is also in the light of the forecast introduced last in the text that we are examining, so there are possible changes related to additional objects of the Constitution compared to those that are at the center of our attention if they are closely related to them. Well, in this case, for example, the organization of the judiciary can easily fall within the scope of this hypothesis, in case we move towards a semi-presidency model. I believe that we should continue to think about this so that we do not face problems of difficult technical solution or that we do not pre-constitute opportunities for a blockade of the reform process, which would be very serious. Just as, and I conclude with a statement that wants to be an indication of the work that awaits us in the coming months, we must always keep in mind that we are derogating from Article 138 of the Constitution, remaining within the framework and within the boundaries of the constitutional review process; we are a power constituted, and it could not be otherwise, as Senator Finocchiaro has pointed out in her report. We therefore have limits even in the choices of merit that we cannot evade. For example, I believe that if we can - and we must - rationalise our form of parliamentary government, overcoming the bicameralism of equality, recognizing more incisive powers to the President of the Council and introducing mechanisms that have a strongly conforming value such as constructive mistrust, we must at the same time remember that we do not have white paper even in the context of a re-discussion of the form of government, because there is a delicate relationship with the fundamental structure of the state. So it is if you want to create a presidential or semi-presidency republic without the necessary counterpowers. This even applies (as the review attempted by the centre-right in 2005 teaches) to the same Parliamentary Government, where excessive powers were concentrated in an omnipotent Premier. Beyond any assessment of the substance, I believe that we do not have this power, if anything of a specially elected constituent Assembly. However, to express a truly conclusive consideration on the merit of choosing the form of government, I would be very careful to import norms and systems from other countries, imagining that we reproduce them with the same characteristics. The Constitution is not a simple set of rules, but it lives in the most comprehensive context in which those rules operate and in the way in which they are interpreted by the operators, starting with the political forces: in other words, it is the reversal of those norms in the historical, social, cultural and political context in which they operate. In order to give, with a joke, the sense of what I mean, the South American Republics are also presidential, not only the United States of America; while the Republic of Weimar was semi-Presidential, whose collapse, although due to a plurality of facts, not all attributable to questions of rules (among them, I would like to highlight the weakness of the parties), does not evoke still calming memories. For these reasons, I feel that I must appeal to myself and to you to ensure that the reform process takes proper account of the specific nature of our history and does not pretend to make up as much as possible, by means of rules, for the deployment of political processes, which only in part can be induced and which must first and foremost ripen from our behaviours and choices. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u39	Senator Tarquinio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, it certainly makes the House's desert feel a little disappointed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are debating such important issues, with respect to which we claim roles, and then there is practically no one in this House. I will use less than the ten minutes I have been given to say first of all that I am satisfied with one fact: I am happy that the Committee is composed of 20 Members and 20 Senators plus the two Presidents of the relevant Chamber and Senate Commissions. This defeats a hypothesis which I thought was negative and criminal, namely that of seeing the wise men who tell Parliament what to do. Parliament is at the heart of everything and must be at the centre of everything: we have got used to it very badly in previous periods, when Parliament was merely ratifying; this can also be seen in some meetings, where it is surprising if someone expresses their own views and claims a role. The role we must gain is ours: beyond what we will approve - which I agree with and on which I do not go into the matter - it is important that we have the capacity to be legislators, not to give in to commonplaces and not to pursue for a fashion what people want. Who establishes that? The information and the press, what tell us that things aren't working out? The press, commenting on the decision of the Constitutional Court, which with serious and concrete reasons puts a brake on the abolition of the Provinces, says that this is the example of how the reform of the country is delayed. If the reform of the country passes through the abolition of the Provinces and the reduction of the number of parliamentarians and if in this way you think to solve all the problems - this is in fact what has been represented - we are faced with a comedian. So I want to go a little against the tide and tell all my colleagues and the government, who proposed it, not to proceed so lightly. If it is proposed to abolish and close the Provinces, we must actually look at the consequences and benefits. Initially it will be a disaster: the regions like the one I come from, which gave a mountain of delegations to the Provinces, will have to go back, with enormous problems. We will see the proliferation of unions of municipalities, other boards of directors, other directors-general and as much as you want. This is true with regard to costs, and even with regard to dysfunctions it will be a disaster, but it is, and we are all getting used to it. On the reduction of the number of Members and senators, I would like to ask everyone a question, with serenity: I am not speaking for myself, because most likely, if this parliamentary term lasts 5 years, at its conclusion I will have reached the age of 68 and will go home. At the age of 70 I will not be here in the Senate: I say it with the utmost serenity, beyond any other consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All evoke and all speak of the Constitutions of 1948, who were people of high cultural level, came from dramatic experiences, from a period of dictatorships, suffering, death and war. The question then arises why they decided that the number of Members was 630 and 315: one reason will be there. I would like to say to the press and others that there is a lot of talk about caste, but that if we reduce the number of parliamentarians, then the caste will really be there at that point; there was a principle of democracy and maximum representation, and not the way to kill democracy and maximum representation. Then we can discuss how to elect, reform the Senate, presidentialism. We have the example of the greatest democracy in the world, at least until now, the United States of America, which has a very strong President and a bicameral system with powers that balance those of a President directly elected with two thirds of the votes, with the power of veto to the decisions of a President of the Republic. I do not know why they do not want to take or see or borrow certain examples. We have to go by fashion. Honestly, I'm not in the mood. What the press decides that we must say and do is not in order, and I am not in favour of the press of my political side. For years there has been a continuous delegitimation of everything, and we all accept supines. That is unacceptable. There can be no A-series citizens and no B-series citizens. It doesn't have to happen that someone can go to jail and someone can never go to jail. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , and this concerns only two categories. Other categories ask. That's not possible. A lot of things are different. There is no real balance. The judicial order is autonomous and you, President, know him better than I do. Unfortunately, however, it has become a judicial power by order. It's a very different fact. It is not possible that there is something superior everywhere, in any democracy, about Parliament, and not about Members of Parliament. We are denouncing our republican tradition, our democracy. I would like to make these comments to my fellow Members, beyond the line-up to which they belong. Do we do it, or do we supine move on? Today we are examining this measure which I sincerely vote for, first of all because it brings everything back to this House. The ability to discuss everything in this House and in the Commissions is ours. But if we're absent, we're not there or we're not listening, that's something else. There were more senators present during the examination of draft law No. 587, of which I myself was rapporteur, than on a subject of this kind that concerns us and, through us, seriously affects all the Italian people. We represent the Italian people. It is not represented by RAI 1 and Mediaset, nor by the Republic, nor by the Corriere della Sera, nor by the Journal. It's us. On the contrary, we read the newspapers that teach us the daily lesson. Do you agree on that? Honestly, no. I feel elected. I'm a former regional councillor for more legislation. I have always been elected to ask the citizens for consent, with serenity. I don't feel nominated by anyone. I am in my party and I fight against it by expressing my opinions, always and in any case, really feeling that I have my freedom as a Member of this Republic, which I invite you all to recover. Are we ready to do this? What concern is there? If we are not ready, it is another question, but everyone must abandon their ideological regiments and make reference to what good this country has expressed and has, and which we find in that lesson of 1948 of the Constitution. Read those debates. Maybe we'll all get rich and figure out a lot of things before we move. Beyond everything, I don't want a single party in charge, there doesn't have to be one man in charge. We have a serious republican tradition. We need to get her back. Let us stop delegitimizing ourselves every day, accepting supinously the delegitimation that has lasted for years and is cyclical. When someone doesn't like it, some great informational power begins demolition. It always starts from one point. Today there is also war in the newspapers on those who must have an absolute majority in a society. That's the real point. We bring everything back, through this law, to the centre of Parliament. I think we can do that. We report or not but, after doing so, each of us must exercise our role with serenity and confront ourselves seriously. I'm telling everyone. You don't have to think I own the truth. If I smile at what others say, I only show arrogance. It is necessary to have the ability to listen and then reach the meeting points, but having at the centre only one thought: Parliament as the driving centre of this nation, the only deputy and legitimate place to express, to make laws, to choose the future of the country. When we are autonomous again, when politics and Parliament are above all else, we will have served the citizens in full. We now have the opportunity, then it depends on us how to practice it. [[Applause from the PdL, PD, M5S and SCpI Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u41	Senator Morra is a member of the House, who will also present the G115 agenda in the course of his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u42	Mr President, I will take very little time and perhaps precious attention from the few in this House. I would simply like to say a few things about the G115 agenda, which I am going to explain very quickly. We are asking that, in accordance with the rules of parliamentary democracy, which are rules of transparency and publicity, the secrecy, confidentiality and opacity of exceptions to democratic practices, the creation of a freely accessible computer portal for the transmission of Commission meetings for institutional reforms, as well as any documents which may be examined by the Commission, be made public without delay. This request, which I have illustrated in advance, must not make me pick up on the reflections that I want to put to the attention of those present, which I esteem to the extent that, according to their intellectual freedom and honesty, they will recognize the authenticity not of what Nicola Morra, president of the 5 Star Movement Group, said, but rather of the reflections that Senator Maran of another Group has just proposed, who recalled through wise quotations of Popper how we have cast ourselves on problems that this ruling class cannot face and resolve for now I do not know how many decades. Other reflections were put, in conclusion of his speech, by Senator Astorre who prophetically, perhaps, said that if we fail to solve the problems we will be swept away by a wave of popular discomfort that is increasingly being channeled towards forms of protest that may no longer be democratic. I would also like to refer to what other rapporteurs have said in this House. I am thinking of the fellow Member of the PDL who has just spoken before me and who, with an intellectual honesty which I acknowledge, has referred to certain aspects of the matter on which we should all be asking ourselves because the House is empty here. We are not talking about the Senate Act No. 587 which allowed us to spend, but about the rules of the game. But here obviously the game interests few also because, being our country in plaster in which not the undersigned but some illustrious editorialist of the "Corriere della Sera" has dedicated a precious volume to the caste, it is impossible in fact to change the rules because those in force maintain privilege to those who sit in this Chamber with me. However, I, like Andrea Cioffi, before I even feel a citizen, and then I invite all those present to assess the difference in style (which is first and foremost cultural difference and, consequently, also moral) which has now accompanied in Ireland a similar battle of constitutional reform process. In Ireland a body consisting of a third of parliamentarians and two thirds of citizens has been set up; citizens who thus feel 100% involved in the democratic game; they say theirs because they feel they are a state and an institution. We here very often have trouble getting out. I remember that a few months ago our Parliament was in fact armored and some Members came out escorted by public security because there were citizens who expressed their very strong dissent against something that had happened inside the Palazzi. Our idea of democracy - I hope that other Members will share it too - is such that the Palaces should be open to citizens at all stages. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What does "in all their phases" mean? Even yesterday, the President of the Assembly, who was Senator Calderoli on that occasion, invited him not to take photographs and probably did not refer to an exponent of the 5 Star Movement. We wondered: why are we taking photographs in this House? Maybe because there is the sadly famous phenomenon of pianists. Very little has been said about this by those who are alleged opposition or majority, because then it suits everyone. I would remind you that, in the past in this House, there have been some very important and beautiful discussions on meritocracy. A few years ago I heard Dossetti quoted; I am ashamed of the humble citizen, absolutely a dwarf compared to certain giants, to have to intervene to modify the Constitution, when it was unimplemented, I repeat, i-nat-your-ta, and this is the reason that brought the crisis of our country because we first made the rules, finding immediately the way not to respect them. We first, mindful of the Byzantine lesson, continue to discern the sex of angels, when instead the social, economic and financial situation of the country is truly dramatic. We first continue to deceive ourselves and, perhaps, continue to send text messages to the outside, although we are physically present here, because we believe that all this is now demagogy and populism. I don't want to be Cassandra then, because I don't hope so. I simply wish that the country, with a collective awareness, that we have a duty to urge, to encourage, know that in here too often we violate the Constitution, because if we are not democratic and respectful of the other, if we are not able to bear the effort of listening to democracy, we have no function here anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mauro Giovanni. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u43	Senator Gotor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u44	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, awareness of the need to reform the institutions is the fundamental pillar of the majority agreement that supports the current Government. In fact, it is common to believe that the Italian democratic system has reached such a state of distress that, after decades of postponements and missed opportunities, a robust restructuring intervention is indispensable, which for its genesis and scope has the obligation to be as shared as possible among the parliamentary forces. An intervention that primarily concerns the organization and functioning of the institutions, starting from the awareness that one of the main problems of the country, perhaps the main one, is the lack of efficiency of the political system taken as a whole. The growing gap between citizens and institutions, voters and representatives, a growing disaffection, mingled with anger and resignation, is worrying. It contributes to the very quality of our democracy. It is not enough to smooth the hair to a need for change, which also exists in the country, nor to take massive doses of anti-politics inside the illusion of being able to transform that easy consensus so acquired into a capacity of government: rather, we must give structural answers and this is what we are called to do because we are close to a point of no return. Politics is increasingly considered irrelevant because it is inconclusive and only a recovery of its credibility and decision-making capacity in times more corresponding to the common feeling can make it possible to recompose this gap in representation. The growing abstention of the last rounds of the local elections must also make us reflect on the extent of the silent split that is taking place between citizens and public participation. Let us be clear: the problem does not concern the quantity, at least for now, of the democracy that we are given to live in our country, but its quality, which must necessarily be reinvigorated. Not to mention that institutional inefficiency, the length of procedures and their dispersion in so many unexploited rivulets inevitably leads to an increase in economic costs, a waste difficult to accept in favorable times, but that becomes unsustainable in times of economic crisis like what we are experiencing. It must be noted that the political decision no longer meets the needs and rhythms of the country and this is the fundamental reason why, as representatives of the people, we must adapt and comply with this request that rises from the citizens. What is being called into question is, above all, our work, that of Parliament, in which the redundancy of discussions is all too often accompanied by the difficulty of taking action and taking responsibility for the consequences, as evidenced, for example, by the abuse of the decree of urgency and the ever-increasing devaluation of the parliamentary institution. Also the warning of President Giorgio Napolitano, on the occasion of his exceptional election, for the second time, as President of the Republic, must push us as far as possible to the task: the President in fact has conditioned the acceptance of the new mandate to the maximum commitment of all parliamentary forces, none excluded, on the impervious terrain of institutional reforms, demanding decisions on this matter in certain times because, as he said, if the deafness of political forces continues, he will take irrevocable decisions. All these reasons and the current political circumstances must lead us to give this legislature a constituent, pragmatic and effective footprint, which means focusing our interventions on the second part of the Constitution, as we have done; a reformative action that serves to give even more ideal momentum and strength to the first part of our Charter, which remains an unavoidable reference point for the entire national community. I hope that these first weeks of cooperation in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have cleared the field of the risk of a double error fueled by mutual distrust: on the one hand, as Mr Quagliariello rightly pointed out, the danger of seeing a sort of institutional conservatism prevail, which would in particular concern the progressive field, in which any intervention on the Charter would ipso facto constitute an attack on the Constitution. On the other hand, to recall the words spoken in this Chamber by Senator Finocchiaro, there is the risk of an iconoclastic fury, which would instead be typical of the right, namely the will exhibited to radically upset the constitutional framework to make it adhere to some abstract modeling and then, in concrete terms, do not change anything. In order to continue constructively in our work, it would be important to put these mutual mistrusts behind us. We have chosen the main road to strengthening Article 138 of the Constitution and as a parliamentary group of the PD we strongly support this path, which guarantees the full sovereignty and dignity of Parliament. We are particularly concerned about the relationship between institutions and citizenship, and this reform can therefore be concluded by a confirmed referendum even if a two-thirds majority in Parliament has been reached. The new elements do not escape us, but we consider the derogation we are voting on today from Article 138 justified by a higher common good: firstly, because it concentrates the referent phase in a single body - the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms that we are going to set up - and this will result in a beneficial procedural acceleration without losing the guarantees of a correct weighting of problems; secondly, because there is the forecast of certain times and therefore the risk of inconsistency will be avoided; finally, because there is a reasonable limitation of the object and scope of action of the Committee that we are going to establish: Title I (the Parliament), II (the President of the Republic), III (the Government) and V (the Regions, the Provinces, the Municipalities). We must proceed with prudence and pragmatism, taking advantage of past mistakes and starting from the points on which there is the greatest consensus to give impetus and encourage the subsequent reforming action on the most controversial points: the end of bicameralism equal, with the establishment of a single Political Chamber that gives confidence and a second Chamber that expresses autonomy of the Regions; the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, who must reach a European level; the reform of parliamentary regulations. All measures on which in principle there is a broad consensus among political forces and which aim to streamline the process of law-making, making the system more efficient. Of course, we are aware of the existence of more sensitive political issues, such as those relating to the form of government, which will probably be dissolved in connection with the introduction of a new shared electoral law. If the objective of giving more lasting majorities and more stable Executives is widely common, the more discussed is the question that leads to choosing the most suitable model to achieve the goal, whether it be the road to strengthening the parliamentary form and the powers of the Premier or that proper to the French semi-presidentialism. In one case as in the other, it is important to be aware that we are choosing between two perfectly democratic models and that we will still have to intervene on the institutional counterweights that are functional to rebalance the system and with a law that can regulate conflicts of interest in a strict way. So there is not only a question of a constitutional model to choose from, but also the definition of a network of guarantees to keep this model up. It will also be important for us - and I will conclude this speech - to involve citizens as much as possible in decision-making processes, guaranteeing them the right to information and the possibility, through the Network, to participate actively in the work, with their opinions. We have before us a historic opportunity that we must seize in order to be more European: quick in decisions and at the same time representative. But we do not have much time ahead of us, and for this reason too it would be unforgivable to waste the opportunity we want to seize by expressing our vote in favour of the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms, with the aim of preparing better days for Italian democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Giannini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u45	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u46	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief and concise. The constitutional problem is a real one. The transformations that have taken place in recent decades have created a very different reality from that in which the 1948 Constitution was born, linked to Yalta Europe and the Fordist economy. The world in which we live has caused problems then not even imaginable. Topics such as common goods, new forms of democracy and participation, the right of citizenship, the concentration of wealth, peace and war deserve to be addressed in constituent terms. It is not unlikely that democratic movements in Europe and on both sides of the Mediterranean will have to engage and fight in the coming years. Unfortunately, however, the direction in which the Italian Parliament seems to be moving is exactly the opposite of what is desirable. It is not in question a constitutional reform that takes into account the new needs for participation and democracy created by the social body. What is being prepared is the cancellation, in the name of a supposed governability, of the substance of the democratic guarantees guaranteed by the noble Constitution of 1948. The programme was drawn up in a recent study by JP Morgan, which identified the anti-fascism and influence of socialist ideas in the Constitutions of the countries of Southern Europe as the cause of their failure to integrate into the Community context and their economic difficulties. Not content with plundering the wealth of our nation, international finance now wants to empty, not only in fact but also in law, the participation of citizens, transforming Italy into a post-democracy. This is when we prepare yet another attack on democratic participation through presidentialism, the strengthening of the powers of the Executive, the weakening of the prerogatives of Parliament and elected assemblies, the loss of the independence of the judiciary, the privatisation of common goods. This programme, which is catastrophic for our nation from a social, cultural and economic point of view, risks winning in Parliament. The shameful union between center-right and center-left, combined with the uncomfortable inadequacy of the oppositions, makes any hugeness possible. 11.25 a.m. (De PIN follow-up). I trust, however, that Italian society will be able to respond to such a dangerous project. In the event of constitutional change, a referendum will be necessary, and I think that the Italian people will not be so easily turbulent. From the 1948 Constitution we come out to complete and improve it, not to empty it or destroy it. [[Applause from the Mixed, Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u48	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is an underlying preamble and not always clearly stated in this XVII legislature, namely that its role, its raison d'être, is to change the form of government, which is considered indispensable to guarantee the country's governance. I am among those who do not share this view. On the contrary, I fear that it may be an alibi to hide the lack of courage, the wrong choices, the opportunism of a ruling class that did not know, because of its fault, first govern development and then the crisis so hard that it hit Europe, and Italy in particular. This - I remember - despite the use of majority prizes increasingly embarrassing. However, I have to admit that the question of the form of government, such as a possible overcoming of bicameralism, is not new. In fact, we have been talking about this for at least forty years, since - I quote a historical example that the Minister knows well - De Gaulle settled in a manner, all in all, rushing to the French May, while in Italy the dispute became permanent and we lived the experience of the bombs and the strategy of tension. Just as I recognise that in a system of mature democracy that has thrown behind the cold war there is, in principle, nothing scandalous in proposing profound reforms of our Constitution such as those which would result, for example, from the direct election of the President of the Republic that (we do not hide it) is the preferred option, preferred by a part of the hemicycle, the one that lies at the right of the Presidency. Of course (this advance, but we will then talk about it in substance), if the French system were to be introduced it would be essential for it to be strengthened and not to weaken Parliament's power of control, to strengthen itself and not to weaken the autonomy of the judiciary. Having said that, what are we talking about today? A constitutional bill that dictates the times, drastically limiting them, of this reform effort and restricting the power to amend Parliament's own. The ratio is to make soon and produce an organic project, as desired in the famous speech that the President of the Republic held in Camere reunited. If this is the framework, it is true, however, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its President, Senator Finocchiaro, have done a good job in the given conditions. I'll try to explain why. Firstly, dialogue with oppositions has developed in the Commission, and it is crucial that oppositions are not excluded in any way but, indeed, fully involved in the process of constitutional reform. Secondly, we are, fortunately, no longer before the proposal to establish a Convention, a kind of ircocervo of dubious constitutional legitimacy in which they live together appointed parliamentarians and experts is not well known from whom and in what capacity. No, today we are proposing a Committee which will have to propose an organic reform project and report to the Chambers which, each in its own right, will be able to amend and, if they think so, approve it. Parliament, since the Committee is, as you know, twenty-one senators and twenty-one Members and this possibility is provided for in the Chambers, is not expropriated. Thirdly, the real weight of the various political forces will be taken into account in the formation of this Committee, thus correcting the distorting effects of the majority prize. Just as the presence of all minorities will be guaranteed. In any case, the final draft, voted in double reading by both branches of Parliament, will be submitted to a confirmed referendum. So, the citizens will finally have the last word. Moreover, the good work carried out in the Commission has reduced the drive to intervene with the pickaxe on our fundamental Charter, reducing, for example, the fields of competence of the Committee and of the process that we begin to reform the form of government and bicameralism, excluding Title IV, which deals with the judiciary, and providing that further changes to other parts of the Constitution are closely linked and consequent to the reform project, for example, the form of government that is being proposed. Just to be clear, if we were to think of a presidential reform, it would be essential to strengthen the autonomy of the judiciary and the powers of control of Parliament. Again - and this is the most important issue for me - it has been made clear in the Commission how Parliament can and should proceed with the cancellation of the electoral law called "porcellum" before the Committee's work gives birth to a comprehensive constitutional reform project, with the related and consequent electoral law. Why is this possibility of electoral reform so important before the constitutional process can be successful? Because the doubt, ladies and gentlemen, which weighs on this beginning of the legislature is that politics wants to take time, that they want to wait for the eighteen months provided for in the reform process before changing an electoral law that expropriates citizens of the power of choice of the parliamentarians and gives an embarrassing majority prize to coalitions that then - it has been seen - keep together the devil and the holy water, and therefore render ineffective the action of any government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This bad electoral law must be changed immediately, without waiting for eighteen months, the time - I remember - of a double pregnancy. In the same way, we cannot wait until the end of the Italian Presidency of the European Union (July-December 2014) to review the downhill road - I quote a sentence from Prime Minister Letta in this House - and therefore to be able to usefully intervene on the economy, correct the tax system, strengthen and modernise welfare protection. In short, if Parliament wants to defend its autonomy, it must show that it knows how to work hic et nunc; it cannot delegate to the government, pending the Italian semester, and to the forty-two, or to the constitutional process, the things that must be done. [[Applause from Senators Bell and Gaetti.]] This is essential to me. I therefore hope that Parliament will be able to reverse this fate, let us call it a waiter, of the 17th legislature, which is working immediately in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (there has been an important opening of both President Finocchiaro and Minister Quagliariello) and then in this House to a new electoral law, guarantee or transitional, call it what you want. Among other things, the adoption of the law will make the work of the Committee for Reforms, and then of the Chambers in their commitment, making it easier for the public to avoid prejudice - if it really is a matter of prejudice - that reforms, like the expectation of the Italian semester, ultimately serve to prevent our fellow citizens from voting and to keep us here for a couple of years, on these issues, and in our current functions. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Roman Senator Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u50	Mr President, senators and senators, it may seem like a pindaric flight to establish an illuminating parallel between the heartfelt words of a Pope, entreated by the pervasive aridity of the sentiments of men and women of the 21st century, in the face of the terrifying images of the serial shipwrecks in the Mediterranean, and the need also for the policy of "not letting themselves dry up" in the matter of reforms, in the presence of new scenarios demanding adequate responses to the spirit of the times. It is urgent, in any case, to take the call of Lampedusa, shaping it to contingent requirements to make it a moral law so that we let ourselves be guided by the common sense and the sober gestures to which our actions as legislators must be informed. It is evident, in the daring parallel, the horizon, that is, the centrality of man, the humanism of political doctrines aimed at the common good. Constitutional reforms, therefore, express the desire to improve, to make the beneficial intention of politics effective. That we need it, we deduce it even from the quality and quantity of the language spoken by our fellow citizens, by our fellow countrymen. Even what we quickly call "bar chatter" is symptomatic of the absolute perception among people of the inevitable need to change and make the framework of laws and norms more adherent to the problems of everyday life and able to explore the borders of the future. So let the constitutional bill come along. It is well done to put Parliament at the centre of the reformist debate, that is, the two branches of Parliament, of which I personally hope the persistence, reaffirmed the constitutional function of dual reading, the call of the constituents to the watchful role of Senate and Chamber, mutual, mutual, in order to ensure depth and depth to the laws of the State. As you know, it is under Article 138 of our Constitutional Charter that Parliament is going to intervene, to reflect, to proceed towards the goal. Well, Mr President, I would like the expedition to be understood rather as an urge to be concrete, to make work useful on the construction site. Only in this sense can the deadline set to conclude quickly be understood and accepted and the results of the parliamentary reform committee of the second part of the Republican Constitution be handed over to Parliament and the country. No imposition can be tolerated. No diktat can stay in the parliamentary classrooms. Well, let us return to the goodness of intentions, without mortifying anyone. The autonomy of the Chambers is enshrined in the Constitution. In the attempt, which we are sure will be successful, to revise a part of the Constitution, we do not end up damaging the pillars of the parliamentary building and its legislative functions as dictated by Article 71 of the Charter. But of this process that is being initiated today, of this path, which will be virtuous, I am sure, must emphasize the consultative stage in the form of online intervention of the citizens. We cannot accept the revolutionary scope of the government's initiative. On the contrary, it is necessary to emphasize this use of new information technologies. The social body, which is extraordinarily multifaceted, is made up of young people, adults, the elderly, the ruling class, the unemployed and the needy, and is asked for contributions, ideas and, perhaps, a contribution of originality and creativity. A unique opportunity to listen to the belly of the country. Will we be able to take this into account? Will we treasure a choral participation in the reform process? I therefore like to conclude with the words of an economist who theorizes the value of sharing and listening, Joseph Stiglitz: A process of building the open and participatory development strategy may lead to delays, but the counterpart of any potential cost due to openness and participation is its overwhelming advantages. It is a wish, a Vaticanio, a Viatico, Mr President, that fits well with the singular contingency that we are experiencing, cultivating democracy, feeding it with good intentions, but above all with outcomes that can change the course of events, driving resignation, banning demagogy, safeguarding the next generations from the risks of obscurantism and undoing. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Giannini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u51	Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u54	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago in this House the Senate unanimously voted on a motion which committed, and still commits, the Government to a radical change in the procedures for selecting and appointing boards of state-owned companies. The motion was followed by the MEF resolution of 25 June, which accepted this motion. All this to our great satisfaction because, symbolically, the discussion took place on the same day as the beginning of the trial in Orsi, former CEO of Finmeccanica, a process that even sees the Indian Ministry of Defence as a civilian part and, as a witness, the Minister himself. And then what happened? Last week's news was the appointment of Gianni De Gennaro as head of Finmeccanica. We asked that appointments be made through high-profile moral and professional curricula and that gender representation be guaranteed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] His candidacy, instead, we remember, is sponsored by Napolitano, Berlusconi, Letta and Letta (and it is not a repetition). [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]] This candidacy proposes Gianni De Gennaro who was sentenced to a year and four months imprisonment by the Court of Appeal of Genoa for incitement to false testimony in the trial for the bloody blitz of the Diaz school of Genoa. Its position is also in clear contrast to Law No 215 of 2004 on conflict of interest. Clearly, we of the 5 Star Movement are extremely disappointed. I conclude my speech by saying that last week was the anniversary of the birth of Giuseppe Garibaldi (and it was not remembered). We, like him, can say that, metaphorically, we left Genoa and arrived here. We are not 1000, but 160 and we will do everything to oppose this choice, which we consider illegal, irrational and immoral. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u57	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to point out one of the many dramatic stories of job losses that go through our country. However, it is still a matter of course as I speak, precisely in these minutes. In the evening of yesterday, some workers of the Tiberina di Pomigliano d'Arco climbed on the roof of their industrial complex staying there all night after having occupied for a few hours also the business canteen. We have asked - and we want to reiterate this here too - for the immediate activation of a table with the prefecture. It is, in fact, a complex matter that I want to recall very quickly. The company announced a series of redundancies in July 2012, opening the mobility procedure for 44 workers on a staff of 91. At the time of the events, some unions accepted the integration fund by way of derogation, providing for the non-rotation of all workers. The company, with this methodology, actually chose 47 of the 91 workers who continue to work regularly while, instead, the 44 excluded were placed in the fund by derogation. Subsequently, the 44 workers turned to the FIOM which, at the time of the events, was absent from the signatory unions and was asked the union to undertake initiatives to overcome the agreement and also to activate a rotation among all the workers. Following the activation of the procedure, last July the agreement was reached to activate the rotation but, inexplicably, the company has withdrawn this agreement, moreover with a very quirky procedure, that is, asking those workers who had sued on the non-rotation, to withdraw it, signing the renunciation to continue the legal way. For all these reasons, last night the workers occupied the cafeteria, went up to the roof and, of course, there is also a public order concern. Therefore, we want not only to raise the matter to the Senate, but also to ask you, Mr President, to do everything necessary to enable an institutional table to be set up to respond to this which is only one of the many dramas of employment, particularly in southern Italy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u58	Senator De Cristofaro, it will be our care to pass on his notes to those who are competent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u61	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the House's attention to an appeal published today on a page of the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" by entrepreneur Diego Della Valle to the President of the Republic of Naples in relation to the RCS Group. I read: It is in danger the freedom of opinion of an important piece of the Italian press and seeing that on the issue Rizzoli has already been involved by others, I too, and I believe many Italians, we need to know your thoughts, always addressing the President of the Republic. There is, as far as I am concerned, no dispute or personal competition with anyone; it is my firm belief that in a democratic country the press must be independent and free to express its opinions without constraints or pressures, and in the specific case of the Rizzoli Group, it is necessary to avoid anyone trying to take control of it in order to then use it as a means of pressure. The situation I would like to see, since there are no pure publishers available, would be to find a group of private investors, free investors, Italians who have as their sole objective the return of the competitive society. At this point it would be necessary for us all, the Group that I represent, Fiat, Intesa and Mediobanca, instead of strengthening our positions, to take a step back and leave the Group's share ownership completely freeing it from all the old polemics and from all the faults of every kind. I turned to you because, in order to achieve all this, considering the current unwillingness of some of the protagonists to follow this path, there is a need for a strong voice above the parts and the maximum authority that requires it in the interest of an indispensable process of modernization of the country. Mr President, the outcome of this issue does not only concern the RCS Group but will be interpreted by many Italians as a strong signal to understand whether it really wants the country to change, modernise and improve, or whether instead it wants to leave it to those who have contributed strongly to bring it under the precarious conditions in which it is located. From tomorrow, July 10, until July 16, the auction will be carried out on the Stock Exchange: the unoptimized increase not already placed, for a commitment to subscribe from 60 million euros, that it is pairs to 11.2% of the capital, will therefore be put to auction. If the auction were to be abandoned, this capital would be reduced to 49.4 million, and the banks would intervene in the purchase. The question is, what do we want to do? I believe that we must also listen to these words. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u64	ROMANI Maurizio (M5S). Mr President, on the evening of 29 June, in Florence, the historic Ponte Vecchio, which is the symbol of the city and one of the most famous in the world, was closed to the public by the municipal administration to follow up a private initiative called "Ferrari Cavalcade 2013." Our mayor, Matteo Renzi, through social networks said that the event was good for the whole city, because it allowed the City of Florence to collect the considerable sum of about 120,000 euros. That's a good idea. Why didn't we think of that earlier? But then the uncomfortable truths come out: the act of granting the occupation of public land for the area of Ponte Vecchio of the Economic Development Directorate turns out to be dated 1 July, that is the day after the dinner of the great gala of Ponte Vecchio of Ferrari Cavalcade. In the act he was obliged to always leave 3,5 linear meters free on the bridge: how is it possible to enforce them the next day? Now in Florence, with the Renzi administration, anything can happen, but we believe that on this occasion every limit of decency has been exceeded. On this matter mayor Renzi made a bad figure and used half-breeds of the worst policy to cover his work, such as announcing 120,000 euros that were needed to cover a budget hole on holidays for disabled kids, when there was neither money nor the cut for disabled kids, using the city and its monuments using its discretionary power to grab new supporters and doing favors to strong economic subjects who might, at the right time, return the favor. Finally, there is a law, No 241 of 1990, a pivotal rule of the administrative system, which states that public administration must pursue the purposes dictated by law and is governed by criteria of impartiality, publicity and transparency. Well, I personally do not understand what are these aims of public interest that the City of Florence has pursued, such as to justify the closure of a historical bridge that belongs to the citizens of Florence. I am ashamed to have in my city a mayor who only wants to appear, who says falsehoods and who wants only to become President of the Council. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let's remember when in the coming months, with the humid eye and the bewitching smile, Renzi will propose the lie of 'I love my city': his city could not care less. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is for these reasons that we will soon present a parliamentary question to the Government, so that the procedures and the manner in which this evil act has been put in place are clarified. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-61.ana.u65	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.51 p.m.
