ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u4	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to point out that the Minutes are really perfect.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u5	Congratulations on your pointer. Since there are no comments, the Minutes are approved with the emphasis of Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:33 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1015. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I must make a premise. I agreed to be rapporteur for this draft law because, of course, I shared the spirit and the theme that is being addressed and which is being tried and solved. As rapporteur, I am not in a position to carry out the political defence of the document which is, of course, the responsibility of the Government, but I believe that I have to make some comments about the fundamental aspects of the debate. First of all, I would like to focus on the qualifying issue of the measure, namely the issue of the precariousness of the public administration and the companies involved. I believe that if there is a realistic and non-prejudice approach, if there is a responsible approach one cannot deny that the problem of the precarious... (Brussio). Excuse me, I understand that the subject can be... president. Colleagues, I can understand that this is the start of the sitting, but I would ask Members to allow the rapporteur to reply. Please, Senator Pagliari, continue. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. The problem of the precarious was not born by chance, it is not the result of fate, it is the result of political choices that cannot be denied, but that a responsible political class can only assume as a theme to be solved and overcome. This requires a process consisting of rules that lead to an exit from the current problem... (Brusio). Mr President, under these conditions, I shall give up my reply. [[Recalls of the President]] The issue of the precarious poses the problem of getting out of this situation taking into account the expectations that in any case the stay in service defined by the political and administrative choices has determined; moreover, this requires a process that governs in a clear and coherent way the topic of the term contracts and in any case the temporary performances and gives clear solutions that can and must be followed. I think it should be made clear - as rapporteur for myself - that if we are a responsible Senate, the problem cannot be solved without providing a way out, a response to the expectations of the precarious public administration. It is clear that this is not the case with the extensions, which have not seen a distinction of responsibility in successive governments, but for the first time with a procedure that poses the issue of overcoming the precariousness in a clear way: it is stated that precarious persons can access competitions exceeding which they can aspire to the place, which is also subject to the availability of the budget. In this situation - let it be clear - we do not make a "pleasure" to the precarious, but we give them a chance of exit, which is not stabilization. I believe that on this level, except then to discuss the choices from the technical and legal point of view (in this regard there has been a very wide availability, which still remains), there can be absolute clarity. I do not know whether there is a sharing of this choice or not, but everyone must assume their responsibilities. I want to make this very clear because I, who have been in this Chamber for six months, have been completely sensitive to the precarious, not to rhetoric, but because at this moment the precarious is the victim of the situation and certainly not the responsible one; in my opinion, he cannot be transformed in any way into the responsible one. This path does not give guarantees, it indicates a road that does not give certainties; we all know that it does not give certainties even regarding the topic of the acquisition of the place. The competition guarantees a selection that, if carried out seriously (as I think it will have to be done), will also guarantee the selection of staff. I believe that the process of intention based on the fact that it is known how it is going in Italy is a convenient way to escape from the political decision to take. I believe that the same problem also arises with regard to the subject of the participating companies, which, from this point of view - I would like to point out - had in the course of its work in the first half of the year. Standing Commission a redefinition that limits its timing and limits its scope; the theme of the companies involved has been placed in the context of a reform plan of the whole system, starting again in this case a solution that passes through the industrial plan of the participating companies decided by the contracting authority and therefore by the public bodies, which in terms of principles can only be a guarantee. Companies closely associated with public limited liability companies of true private law cannot be equated. This is something else: they are legally so and have been politically so. I believe that this is the mistake of a system of participating companies which, especially at the level of local authorities, has been exaggerated. It was not a synergistic instrument for municipal administrations to carry out their tasks, but often an instrument through which the companies involved or outsourced decisions which, politically speaking, should have been taken at institutional level - they have been outsourced to escape institutional responsibilities - or have fed clientelism and given rise to recruitments often of a clientele nature. Having said that, the policy that wants to overcome the problems does not erase the mistakes: it looks ahead and identifies solutions that can meet the demands of sure overcoming the systems, with the need to take into account the human destinies to which answers must be given, and not stabilization but paths that allow not to be found from today to tomorrow in an unsustainable situation. We all know how the theme of participating companies interests all of Italy. We all know how it can affect the overall balance of so many municipal administrations. Then I believe that, from this point of view too, the solution found in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already offered a limited way in time, correct in terms of investment, defined and contained. With respect to this, however, with all respect for the opinions of others, I do not think we can speak of absolute privilege. In this situation we are thinking in the perspective of an organic discipline that exceeds the current one of public societies and resizes the whole system. We are therefore faced with a rule that tries to "pass the night" and leave the system inveterate. It is a rule that arises in a process of overcoming that necessarily has two areas: on the one hand, reform and, on the other, the exit from the current system. However, we do not leave the current system by closing the door behind us. Then there is the theme of the Territorial Cohesion Agency. I understand your sensitivity, but I believe that we must also do an act of intellectual honesty in this regard: we must tell ourselves whether we can afford to move forward by pretending that, in terms of the actual expenditure of European funds, we are up to Europe and we are efficient. We all know that we are at risk of losing these funds for a very simple reason: the public system, as it is structured today, is not able to decide within the necessary time. So, I believe that a reflection must be made in this respect, if we are to be brutal and I apologise for it, which is very clear. The instrument to overcome this situation must be found in terms of urgency. This explains why the Agency for Territorial Cohesion is included in this measure. It must be found having attention to the efficiency of the system and not paying attention to the dynamics that always arise in the face of these situations for which those who have the competence and have not managed to exercise it adequately to the competence, do not want to give up and prefer the status quo compared to the overcoming of this situation. Compared to this, I personally say "no" by also making another reasoning. Those who know the complexity of public organisation issues know very well that public organisation or is properly structured at all levels of function necessary for public administration to produce its decisions or know that public administration does not reach decisions. Anyone who knows the administrative machine knows that, when it jams, it is necessary to identify what is the wheel that is missing, what is the model that must be exceeded, what is the best solution. Now, I believe that the Agency for Territorial Cohesion, when it sets itself - objectively, on the basis of the discipline, on this level - as an agency that offers an investigative competence, as an agency that promotes the proper conduct of the procedures to arrive at the expenditure, as a body that is concerned to contribute to that all the public system that must provide for the expenditure of public funding, is a choice to be made because it does not fit into the current state of the legislative plan as an unnecessary body, but as a necessary one to overcome the inefficiencies. Can it be the ultimate solution? I believe that everyone should be aware that organisational changes must all be tested, but I do not believe that in this framework, as outlined in the draft law, the Agency for Territorial Cohesion poses problems such as those highlighted in the debate and that it should be an Agency that needs to be suppressed rather than initiated so that it can contribute to the process that needs to be put in place. As far as European funding is concerned, no one wants to restrict the autonomy of local and regional authorities. We all know the Constitution, but at the moment we create a body that gives those professional skills that may not exist and that nevertheless gives that impetus by acting, in a broad sense, as responsible for the procedure in this area, I believe that we do a necessary operation that does not preclude refinements along the way, but that allows us to start today. With regard to the raised issue of the quality of legislation, I believe that from this point of view there is an absolute awareness and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has repeatedly addressed this issue also through a valuable contribution from Senator Palermo. Everyone is aware that there is an issue that concerns the way in which laws are drawn up, the way in which legislation can be ordained and coordinated, and that, if the legislature takes a breath, I believe it can be dealt with because it is one of the most important reforms. It is a reform that is about democracy itself, but it is also about legislation that, rather than producing delegification, really produces the effectiveness of the law. Now, this is a general theme, it is not a theme that can be placed with respect to the single provision. I am aware that there is an issue of quality in legislation, which has been dramatically aggravated in the 16th legislature; I am absolutely aware that it must be overcome. But the problem of the positive or negative approach to the decree or to its individual parts cannot be blocked by these situations. Then there are other problems that have emerged, in the field of teachers abroad and on other subjects and other subjects related to school. I believe that, from this point of view, it is clear that it is difficult to discuss these issues here; these issues, strictly speaking, would be subjects from another point of view and to be included in a specific decree-law on school. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pagliari, you still have a minute to finish. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. I believe that the solution that has been offered is a logical and immediate solution with regard to teachers abroad. I realize the many painful choices, which do not satisfy all the precarious. From this point of view, I have the greatest willingness to continue the comparison. I mean, among other things, that there is the whole issue of trainees that is not addressed at all; but we know very well what the limits of an operation like this are in these budgetary conditions. I shall therefore draw attention to the work of the House on the amendments in these circumstances and in this spirit. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Floris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u12	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I was going to speak anyway, but, listening to the rapporteur, I would like to make a speech on the order of business that is not covered by the political side, because it is just a concern that I would like to put to you and colleagues. It seems to me, indeed, that we have scheduled this measure for Tuesday afternoon, so we will begin our work again by dealing with the follow-up to the debate. Yesterday it seems to me that there were also issues related to the opinions that have to come from the Budget Commission, in part relating not so much to the amendments, among other things many, but also to a part relating to the very text of the measure. At the Conference of Leaders, which I was lucky enough to participate with you, Mr President, it seems to me that the Government had assured us that for the continuation of the work there would be the participation of the Government with the material that was missing, so also with the technical notes, which would have arrived, possibly boiled by the General Accounting of the State, thus allowing at least to begin the evaluation in the Budget Committee with all the complete documentation. Now, it seems to me, however, that the problems raised by the rapporteur, who are of a political nature, of course, and of a political choice, relate to a second part even after this, the one relating to the adoption of the amendments. From what I understand - I am sorry to repeat - there are many amendments which are from the Commission, because out of 635 it seems to me that a hundred are from the Commission. I would therefore like to ask the following question: since we are starting work on this measure on Tuesday, would it not be appropriate for the Government's reply (if it intends to do so) to have a concrete answer on the possibility of continuing its examination, at least in the Budget Committee, so that the Commission can then work (I do not know when) so that it can do a fruitful job on Tuesday afternoon by addressing the amendments? That is to say the reflection is: since President Grasso said that we will see to make a Capigroup update, is it not that we are still on Tuesday with the work, because we do not have the opportunity to continue them in a profitable way, and perhaps it is better a reflection, perhaps informal, before a possible Capigroup? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u13	Senator Volpi, today is Thursday and the timetable approved by the Conference of Leaders provides that the debate on the amendments will take place next Tuesday. He therefore understands that there would also be time for reflections, in-depth discussions and for the work of the Commission. So this will be evaluated. But of course the Government's response is also relevant in this regard. I therefore call upon the representative of the Government, who will of course take account of the considerations just made by Senator Volpi.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u14	Mr President, the Government is, of course, providing the Budget Commission with all the necessary clarifications, including with regard to possible cover. It is clear that the timing of the debate depends on the working time of the Budget Commission and certainly not on the Government, which is ready to provide all the necessary clarifications. We believe that, if the Commission gives its opinion on the text and the amendments that have been discussed in the relevant Commission in the next few days, the House will be able to act on Tuesday: of course, the Government is ready to provide all the necessary clarifications. Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur for the measure, Mr Finocchiaro, and all the members of the 1st Commission, who have deepened the content of the decree-law in question, which is complex, because our public administration is complex. It intervenes with a series of urgent measures, which serve to correct some criticalities of the system in strategic sectors of the public administrations, also for a series of deadlines that we will have at the end of the year. It intervenes not by increasing expenditure in these areas, but by restricting it, starting with the rules concerning the so-called blue cars and advice, providing for a greater reduction of appropriations, greater controls and, above all, highlighting the need for the Department of the public service to be put in the condition of having all the data from all the public administrations and above all from the system of the Regions and the local autonomy, in order to carry out the controls whose competence is attributed by law to the Ministry. Just to give a few examples in this regard, we find ourselves having only 70% of the car park of representation and service of the public administrations, because we are not given the data in a complete way by several local authorities and regions, but, from the raw data in our possession, the cost of service cars and blue cars exceeds billion euros. It is therefore clear that there is room for intervention for a reduction in expenditure, on which we can intervene if we know in depth how these means are used and how expenditure is authorised. That is why we are calling for the extension of restrictive measures and we are calling for the acquisition of these data, further penalising the administrations that refuse to transmit useful data. In addition, we are sanctioning any contracts that are not in conformity with these provisions. These rules concern blue cars and, to an even greater extent, advice. Here again we have the problem of not being able to fully acquire all the data: from the data in our possession the cost of consulting in Italian public administrations is more than 1.3 billion euros. This is also a rough figure, which refers to the acquisition of elements and data from about 70% of administrations. In this context, you will understand well how advice is used in the presence of the possibility that, within the administrations, there are those professionalities that can carry out certain services. Therefore, as provided for in this decree, it is necessary in the first place to oblige everyone to make transparent in their budgets the items of expenditure relating to advice; secondly, to oblige everyone to transmit the data, finally, to sanction interventions or contracts concluded in discrepancies. The decree also provides for a series of interventions with regard to the management of the so-called surpluses. Also in this case we maintain substantially unchanged the installation of Decree-Law No. 95 of 2012 on spending review and we anticipate the extension of these measures because the terms provided by the decree of 2012, due to the late start of the legislature and the nomination of the Government, have not allowed all administrations to be able to adapt. The decree-law establishes the prohibition of recruitment in the qualifications and areas presenting supernumerics and the coverage of vacancies is subject to the prior absorption of surpluses by early retirement, one of the instruments that the Monti Government had prepared to allow the reduction of organic envelopes in public administrations. Here too, we take action to implement more effectively certain mobility procedures with regard to the Ministry of Justice. In fact, one of the criticisms we received during the debate on this measure concerns the mitigation of mobility procedures. The latter, which in our system develop substantially with the consent of the worker, do not find effective both for the cutting of the organic envelopes, which has resulted in a reduction of the available places, and because the collective agreements relating to the public employment provide a series of guarantees on the place of work and therefore is much more restricted the territorial area in which this type of mobility can be implemented, and because the economic treatment of the public employee varies from administration to administration: in fact, from the point of view of the accessory treatment there are administrations that allow a treatment superior to others. The only mechanism that is working is that of co-active mobility that is organized through the declaration of surpluses, and that is what we are implementing on the basis of the rules of Decree No 95 of 2012. Basically, after the cutting of organic equipment, we are managing a staff surplus of about 7,000 units. There are two instruments available under the legislation on this surplus. One is the use of early retirement, which with this decree we extend by a further year. The other is mobility in other administrations. If the worker does not wish to enter the transition to another administration where there are shortages of staff, the mechanism of placement in availability which, after a two-year period, leads to the resolution of the employment relationship is triggered. It is clear that this is the only mechanism, so much so that, in order to be able to cover the deficiencies of staff present in the Ministry of Justice (discoveries consisting from the point of view of administrative staff), in agreement with the Minister of Justice we have introduced a rule that allows to facilitate this path overcoming the difficulties that from the administrative point of view we have also found with reference to the use of voluntary mobility. Moreover, the decree-law under discussion provides for a number of provisions which also concern so-called mobility in participating companies. On this subject I would like to say one thing very sincerely: I listened in the debate to Senator Lanzillotta's speech and I agree with the analysis of the use and abuse of the participating companies by the public administrations, so it is true that in this decree-law we have included a rule to censor all the staff employed by the participating companies, because it is a fact we do not have. The lack of availability of this data involves a number of problems, the first of which is that we cannot define the index and the parameters of virtuosity of the local authorities, because we do not know the cost of the staff of the participating companies that must be included in the calculation and evaluation criteria for the definition of these parameters. It is clear that this abuse also stems from a public administration vision that has been distorted by those who have theorized that privatising a number of services will make them more efficient on the market. In fact, this has not been the case, because public administrations have organised participating companies most of the time to circumvent the rules of public law both from the point of view of competition procedures and from the point of view of public evidence procedures for the purchase of goods and services. Today we are faced with a problem which we do not know the size of, but which risks being, from the social and economic point of view, especially for local authorities, very strong. This is because by 31 December this year (we have extended the deadline until that date) many of these companies will have to be wound up by local authorities and authorities. Therefore, there is a problem that also concerns the condition of the staff concerned, which, from the point of view of protection, is different depending on the type of company, i.e. whether they are wholly owned by the administrations or not. The instrument that we propose and on which there has already been a comparison in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has produced an amendment that we have shared with the rapporteur, basically allows the administrations to make industrial plans for restructuring, closing and relocating part of such staff to other companies, where all this does not entail additional burdens or burdens on the institutions themselves. And it is an optional tool made available to administrations to manage passages that will be particularly complicated from the point of view of the liquidation of these companies. We have proposed it in this spirit and we are offering it to the parliamentary debate. Some concerns that have been highlighted during the debate in the Commission I believe have been addressed and resolved by ensuring that this instrument does not fit permanently into the legal framework, but has a limited time validity throughout 2014 and therefore essentially accompanies the restructuring procedures by fulfilling its function with the paths that our legislation already provides for the closure of these companies. On the other hand, it is responsible to the managing authorities, because the approval of industrial plans, and therefore the way in which to relocate part of such staff, is the responsibility of the controlling administration. Therefore, the concern that this might be a way of overloading staff and other companies' spending, I believe, can be overcome by the wording and text that the Commission has proposed together with the rapporteur. These are issues that we have faced and which have never been addressed, including the issue of forward contracts in the public administration. I would like to make a few comments on this. The first is that we have only two clear figures on flexible relations with public administrations. One is contained in the annual account of the General Accounting of the State in 2007, which estimated all types of flexible relationship with the public administration in about 112,000 units. At the end of 2011, again according to the annual account of the General Accounting of the State, flexible relations with the public administration increased by about 10,000 units. To date, in all sectors, in all public administrations, net of the school sector, which has a specific system and discipline, there are 122,000 people who have a flexible working relationship with public administrations. Of these, some 100,000 hold contracts and relations with regions and local authorities, 35,000 of them in the health sector. As you can see, this number has grown, and it has done so despite the adoption in 2007 and 2008 of rules in Parliament which provided for stabilisation - which we do not do here - that is, the transformation by law of the employment relationship from fixed time to indefinite time. That means there's an anomaly in the system. Despite the fact that a rule has been introduced which, under the scheme, provided for the possibility of making public competition with a quota reserved for the holders of a forward contract, this phenomenon has not been contracted, has not been exhausted, indeed has increased, as shown by the data I mentioned. Not only that. In the last year and a half the previous government has extended these term contracts, which we are not in a position to do, because we cannot decide on a further undifferentiated extension by law, on the basis - I presume - of an assessment of merit, of opportunity, considering that we are probably talking about qualified professionalism, whose lack in the strategic sectors of the public administration can determine the closure of offices and services. We have been faced with this problem, to which several solutions have been provided in the past, but which have not produced the desired results. In the decree of doing this, we have therefore launched an extension to 31 December to try to provide a solution capable of overcoming this issue with rules that not only do not have to increase staff expenditure but, in the next three years, can make staff expenditure in these sectors contain or reduce for public administrations. The norms are those that we find in the provision to our examination, that, in essence, say this: since in our country the average times of the celebration of a public competition are about three years old, it is evident that the findings of staff that will occur in 2014 and 2015 cannot be covered through ordinary competition procedures. We are of course talking - and here too I would like to make a correction with respect to Senator Lanzillotta's remarks - about very limited organic findings, because we have the turnover block, so in 2014 and 2015, respectively, only 20 percent and 50 percent of those who retire can be replaced. Which means that out of ten people who retire in 2014, administrations will only be able to hire two and that out of ten people who retire in 2015, administrations will only be able to hire five. The idea that we propose is to use turnover to progressively close the game of the precarious, providing that, for a maximum limit of 50% of the hiring capacities (so a further restricted quota), public administrations can ban selective procedures reserved exclusively for a narrower audience of precarious, i.e. holders of a term contract in public administrations for a period not less than three years in the last five years as well as possessors of characteristics in order to be able to be stabilised according to the discipline provided by the financial laws 2007 and 2008, which substantially provided for the same requirements. Therefore, we restrict the audience, we no longer extend by law those flexible relationships that do not fall within the scope of these categories, which will last as long as is provided for in the contract that has been concluded (but which cannot be extended by law), and we foresee an extension only and exclusively for those subjects who are interested in selective procedures. In concrete terms this means that, if an administration in 2014 of ten people who retire can hire two and has three people who have a term contract, these three people will compete and will be selected to cover one place; the other two will have to, at the end of the contest, go home. This will, therefore, lead to a reduction in expenditure in that sector and the inclusion in the public administration of persons who are supposed to have a further qualification, having already served, having acquired a professionalism and having been further selected. Compared to the other issue that we have faced - I address Senator Ichino - we have no interest in generating expectations, but these have been consolidated by measures launched by previous governments and are related to the cutting of organic endowments, the blocking of assumptions and the simultaneous extension of the rankings of contest winners and eligible ones. In fact, the extensions of the previous rankings, established by law, were decided because those who won a competition - we are talking about boys who, according to Article 97 of the Constitution, have submitted to a competition procedure - did not take up service, having blocked the mechanism of recruitment, since the economic maneuvers, of course, have contracted public expenditure in these areas. These rankings have been extended by law for this reason. Today we are with an audience of about 70,000 people, 70,000 young people who have been subjected to competitive procedures; some of them are even winners of competition, but the administrations have not hired them, or because they could not hire them for the blockage of turnover, or because, probably, they have resorted to advice or other less transparent forms of use of external professionalism. We want to stop this circuit, forcing the administrations for the two years to cover the remaining 50% with those who won a competition. We know well, in fact, except that we do not want to make fun of ourselves, that it will not be possible to call a public competition that is celebrated in a year to cover the new turnover of 2014 or 2015 and we propose, with an amendment agreed by the rapporteur and the Commission, to simplify the competitive procedures in order to shorten the time of placing in service of staff. This is what we can do at this stage to finally close the issue of forward contracts: on the one hand, we expect that we will not be able to stabilize everyone, but only one part, and we will do so exclusively through competitive procedures, without renewing these contracts over time; on the other hand, we introduce rules that provide for the obligation for the administrator and the manager, when concluding the employment contract, to indicate the causality in the contract, in order to fully assume the responsibility for that choice. For this reason we also tighten the sanctions, forcing the administrations to pass on to the Court of Auditors all those judgments of the judiciary of the labour that were to condemn the administrations to compensation for the damage (which is already happening in part) or, even, as in some cases happened, to the transformation of the employment relationship from fixed time to indefinite time. The alternative to this solution is to prevent administrations from availing themselves of professional services from 31 December this year. We, however, do not know what these administrations are and, in fact, we insert in this decree-law the census of all time contracts. We know the numbers: for example, we know that there are about 35,000 in the health sector and, precisely because this sector has its own specificity, we expect that these rules will be applied only and that agreement will be established in the State-Regions Conference, since they have a particular and different discipline. We know that in the regions and in the system of local autonomy there are about 70,000 of these forward contracts, some of which concern intermediate professionalism, other professionalism of low bands; also for the latter we foresee solutions, always within the limits and the availability of staff, of the assumptions and of the forecasts of expenditure that the current legislation allows to the administrations. That is the meaning of the provision. If, on the other hand, it is considered that, at 31 December, the administrations will no longer be able to make use of these relations and that they will be exhausted depending on the duration of the contract, it is a choice, and it is right that Parliament should take this decision. But what we can't keep doing is pretending that the problem doesn't exist. What we cannot continue to do is to set out principles that are acceptable, but that in the actual management of administrations have not been implemented, on the contrary, have been - let us say this - also an indirect cause of the system of production of precariousness in public administration. This measure is also concerned with strengthening the role of CIVIT. In this regard, I would like to say to those who spoke in yesterday's general debate that the Government's proposal was not and is not a proposal that tends to weaken Civit. CIVIT was born as an authority whose task was to evaluate the performance of public administration staff. CiVIT was subsequently assigned a fundamental competence, i.e. the role of National Anti-corruption Authority. It is clear that all the legislation brought about by Law No 190 of 2012 and by the implementing legislative decrees on transparency, inconferibility and incompatibility in the taking up of public positions, must be implemented administratively and involves an effort by CiVIT, from the point of view of the work to be done, enormous. Then the original idea was to entrust to CIVIT only the task of National Anti-corruption Authority, separating the relative part... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Minister, with respect for the government, I invite you to conclude. Mr D'ALIA, Minister for Public Administration and Simplification. Mr President, I am beginning to conclude quickly. The original idea was to entrust CIVIT - as I said - only the above tasks. We share the solution identified in the Commission that CIVIT retains its original competences, but on one condition: that it be placed in a position to work having an independent organizational and financial structure. This was the Government's proposal which then found the solution in the Commission. These are some of the issues that emerged during the debate. There are others, for example, related to the issues of SISTRI, Ilva and so on, on which obviously there will be the possibility, during the examination of the measure, of further clarification also by the competent Ministers and Subsecretaries who followed these provisions. From our point of view, Parliament's debate and any changes to the text of the decree-law will be enriching, as we have done in the Commission in recent days. I believe that this has been a useful work, for which I thank Mr Finocchiaro and the rapporteur. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u15	As established and with the comments and clarifications now offered by the representative of the Government, since the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments have not yet been received, the examination of the measure will continue on Tuesday, also hoping that time will not spend inoperably. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u16	The next item is the debate on document XXII, No 10. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u17	Mr President, I would just like to make a few comments. The proposal put forward here is to set up a single chamber parliamentary committee of inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators. The proposal is submitted to the House with the unanimous opinion of the 1st Commission and on the basis of Rule 162 of the Senate Rules of Procedure. The favourable opinions of the 2nd and 5th Commission were also acquired. The opinion of the 1st Commission is unanimous, because it is common concern about the violence and intimidation that local administrators and, in particular, mayors suffer on a daily basis. There is nothing to do with the acts of serious mafia crime, which is being dealt with by the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, so there will be no overlap in this respect. The need is to understand a phenomenon that we could define as a form of administrative stalking that manifests itself through constant pressures and threats, in particular towards mayors, to obtain donations from local municipalities and public administrations (money, permits, housing and licenses), often with the use of threat and violence, obviously without title and without subjecting to the rules. This is the case, for example, of Elisa Trombini, mayor of the Municipality of Jolanda di Savoia, in the Province of Ferrara, heavily and continuously threatened by a subject who claims without title the assignment of a popular accommodation. It is clear that economic crisis, social degradation and uncontrolled immigration accentuate these phenomena. Local administrators are seriously exposed, and this exposure limits their public action, conditions and sometimes prevents it. Breaking the wall of indifference or in any case overcoming the only solidarity downstream of what happens is absolutely indispensable. Local administrators are the first garrison of the Republic, and if they are prevented from carrying out the public function with dedication, fairness and impartiality, it is the same democratic system that is torn apart and sometimes even suspended. Hence the need to understand the level of the phenomenon in order to understand how to act to help the local administrators, and in the first place the mayors, to carry out their public activity well and safely, to assess how it can be done, especially on the prevention side, also with administrative and legislative acts of support. The measure consists of six articles, which I will not explain. I believe that the establishment of this Commission is an important and very useful act, which I would ideally like to dedicate to Laura Prati, Mayor of Cardano al Campo, killed for the reasons behind the founding reasons of this Commission. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u18	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u19	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is precisely the topicality that is promoting the establishment of this Commission, but I think that we need to make some distinctions, because the appointment of this body also calls in a very significant way the use of the anti-mafia Commission, given that the facts we are very often referring to fall mainly in the southern territories, even if the example made by the rapporteur, Mr Pizzetti, was placed elsewhere. I believe that this Commission, on whose usefulness the Civic Choice Group agrees, must above all have the aim of imagining a regulatory study. Therefore, with regard to what is envisaged in the system, I believe that perhaps six months is not an adequate time, and I therefore ask the rapporteur to carry out a check on this matter, because it is necessary to find answers that give the Commission the opportunity to be really useful. What is necessary? I believe that the arguments on which we need to reason are those which expose public administrations to this type of intimidation. Public administrations and public administrators are usually subject to these intimidations because they are the final terminals for deliberations and authorisations. I therefore believe that this Commission should examine the possibility of exempting the decision-making phase from the administrative body. A study in this respect could be extremely interesting in order to avoid those duplications on which I believe we can imagine interventions of this kind. The judicial authority, or the anti-mafia Commission itself, can draw from these studies extremely interesting arguments to take the necessary measures. But above all, I believe that the most important work that this Commission can do is to reconvene through which we can promote a regulatory system that puts public administrations in a secure position. From this point of view the consent of the Civic Choice Group for Italy is assured. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u21	Mr President, I have a double characteristic: that I have been mayor for ten years and that I too have been a member of the long list of mayors and local administrators who have suffered, as is often the case, especially in our South, even rather heavy intimidation. What could be the role of the Commission, as Senator Di Maggio has said. The Commission might be able to understand the mechanisms underlying these intimidations, namely to conduct a study of the causes for which local administration, which - as my colleague has rightly said - is the last outpost of the State in the territory, is often subjected to intimidation. What are the mechanisms? It should be studied on a case-by-case basis: for example, we should consider the legislation on housing, to which reference has been made, or the legislation on authorizations in trade or on reports in public works. There are a number of mechanisms in which the local administrator finds himself the ultimate reference. Especially at a time like this, of great economic crisis, many problems emerge in all their drama (think of the search for the house or the possibility of carrying out an economic activity) and people find themselves increasingly angry with the public administration, which is not seen as an agency available to the citizen, but as a structure that poses leaps, which complicates the life of people. There's all this, too. And this has to do with information structures. The truth is always one: institutions should, in the broadest sense, work together. On the basis of my personal experience, I would like to stress that when the local administration succeeds in working well, together with the proxy, the prefecture, the other institutions, when it is possible to reason together and the local administration is helped and not vexed things work a little better. The truth is that in our Italy, where institutions often do not work together, it happens that the mayor becomes the lightning rod of a whole series of mechanisms for which the pressure of the people, citizens, criminals and criminal organizations more or less organized, on the one hand, is often found to be under the shot of the other institutions. Then, with this Commission, we should study well the mechanisms and causes for these discrepancies, and then find regulatory solutions - Senator Di May is right - so that this does not happen, in order to protect in some way the decisions taken by the local authorities. Although I am not an enthusiastic member of the Committees of Inquiry (my party says that, when we do not want to solve a problem, the committees are set up), I hope that this body will have more than anything else a role before studying and then a concrete proposition of legislative acts that can improve the situation. I hope, therefore, that this work can produce concrete acts, I announce the favorable vote of the Great Autonomous Groups and Freedoms. [[Applause from Senator Billardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u22	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u23	Mr President, today I want to bring to this House the contribution of an ASL police officer in the province of Naples. He moves the problem a bit about internal intimidation that very often suffers from public administration. At least in our South, all too often, public leaders are not chosen with meritorious criteria, but are identified among those who do not hinder the business between the underworld and politics. The objectives of these executives are not the effectiveness and efficiency of the service they belong to, but to ensure that there are no obstacles to the good purpose of the bad business of those who have appointed them specifically. It follows that the latter exercise their power in persecutory activities, such as demands, harassment, isolation and transfers, which unfortunately concern the best officials and employees, who are more autonomous and independent. Persecutory activities materialize too often, over time in a real stalking action. Dismantling takes place by eliminating the employee's workload, reducing it very often to unproductive activity throughout the working day, throughout the week and throughout the month. I would like to stress that this is a testimony. So, I'm reporting what I've been told on the basis of experience in the field of public administration. Such attitudes thus convey the conviction that those who adhere to the orders of the chief are successful and those who do not get it are losers. The isolation is expressed by alienating the manager-dependent from the work activities of the institute. Inspections, like all control and verification activities proper to public bodies, are often carried out by condescending staff, because friends of friends should not be disturbed. To all this it follows that the public administration cannot express neither quality nor quantity of services. This lack is justified by public opinion as a lack of funds and staff: alibi of the constraints that the political-mafia system imposes on civil servants, preventing them from doing their job. For the civil servant to have to stand up against the political-mafia system means to have against not only his own manager appointed by that system, but also the other directors appointed by the same procedures, who in a pack mode are active against him. In health care, for example, the Director-General of ASL should be confirmed six months ago by the Conference of Mayors in the territory of which it belongs. Very often, however, these mayors are commissionered by the Ministry of the Interior for mafia infiltrations. Therefore, it seems legitimate to us to think that in such cases the appointments made by those same mayors are also affected. In order to resolve such unhealthy malfunctions in the public administration, we propose to entrust to the Finance Guard the task of overseeing the work of all public leaders and to provide, if there is a dissolution of a Municipality for mafia infiltration, to evaluate the decadence of all duties issued by mayors commissioners. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u24	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u25	Mr President, the Commission of Inquiry proposed - in my opinion - is particularly useful in view of the fact that the activities of public administrators, especially those working in the most remote local areas, do not correspond to a pre-established scheme. There is not, in fact, an equal history for everyone: there are very different situations and social, economic, historical, daily life and events that need, even from the regulatory point of view, an articulated and adequate response to grasp all the difficulties. This is primarily for the state. In the debates that have taken place over the last few months and days here, we have said that we want to reform it in the best possible way. In fact, reforms do not always go in the direction of progress: sometimes they are not only conservative, but they even take us back in time. It is therefore necessary to understand what is the difficulty encountered, namely what type of constant intimidation are suffered by those representing the State, by democratic institutions, not only at the point closest to the reality of the citizens and their lives, but also at the point farthest from the centre where the highest decision is taken, which perhaps is no longer Rome, but Brussels, so that we move further away from the perspective of the local authorities. We need to understand the reasons why violence explodes against our administrators, the reason why their operational condition has even worsened in recent years. Of course, the crisis invests everything and everyone. The lack of confidence has now taken on a significant part of Italian society, which is the largest sections of the population. But this also happens because - I say this in this House, but this also involves the other House - the existence of political formations and organizations is being called into question, with a sort of permanent self-criticism. Well, one of the reasons for the weakness of our local administrators towards those who organize themselves in order to strike, in terms of rebellion against the state or criminal infiltration within the state structures, is that they lack the possibility of social defense that was guaranteed to them by being part of a political formation, by being its leaders. In those cases it was easy to express solidarity with them on the part of the militants and members of the political formations. Mr President, we therefore believe that this measure is very useful and we hope it will be approved by the Senate, made immediately operational and can be a useful contribution, through its study, to the ongoing reform process. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u27	Mr President, we obviously share the concern to defend local administrators, as my fellow Members have just said in all speeches. It is absolutely correct to say that it is the men of the State who are in contact with the most difficult local realities and who face daily problems often difficult solution and administration. We therefore also share the awareness that it is important to protect them from all forms of intimidation and threat; a phenomenon which, inter alia, according to the study accompanying the bill, comes increasingly from crime, organized crime, but also from simple citizens who, for more or less diverse reasons, directly attack administrators. So it seems that nothing is going to change the way this Commission is set up, which is absolutely acceptable, but the problem is that we are beginning to get an idea of how this Parliament and this Government are working. This Parliament has the incredible ability to waste time on very important issues: it looks like an oxymoron, but it is not. The issue of security is absolutely important, but there is one fact that strikes: the causes of the phenomenon on which this Commission is going to investigate are already known to us. We also know that there is already legislation to prevent and punish a whole range of behaviors. There is an anti-Mafia Commission which is dealing with the very serious and very large phenomenon of mafia infiltration into the institutions. In this Parliament we often have to deal with these problems by talking about them: we talk a lot about them, but it seems to us that the real solutions are not really being taken. I remember that at the beginning of the parliamentary term we discussed a Commission on Human Rights, which is very important, there is no doubt. How can we say no to a Commission that protects and seeks to develop the legislation and action of Parliament and the Government in the protection of human rights? We had just settled in and voted yes. We were just established and we all felt the urgency to act for the country: we protested for the failure to start the standing committees you will remember, and we found ourselves dealing with the issue of a special Commission in a special Commission. The same applies to the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad, which is also a very important issue. However, in the face of a country that is dying and pouring into truly emergency conditions, we continue to discuss problems that we should morally, ethically and practically face directly. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to give an example that I have also brought to a meeting of the Committees on Constitutional Affairs and Justice which concerned the phenomenon of feminicide. The proposed bill is important and fundamental, such as the one on homophobia, in order to establish lines beyond which this kind of crime is unacceptable, and it contains, within it, a whole series of measures of a social, cultural, educational and special health care nature for victims. Well, as I said on that occasion, the law is right, but then where will it be applied? In a social fabric in which all health care has been dismantled, in which school has been dismantled, completely, and all forms of cultural activity and associations that can help overcome certain limits have been dismantled. We know in fact that feminicide, such as homophobia and like other problems (including this), is certainly due to an intolerable cultural degradation of this nation. So we rightly wonder: once the law has been passed, how can it be applied in such a devastated situation? I come from a neighborhood where there is 40% immigration, in Turin, municipality administered by the PD, capital of a Region administered by the PdL (so the thing, as usual, is bipartisan). In this neighborhood, where we have situations of economic poverty, unemployment, difficulties of integration, with very strong immigration from the four corners of the globe, we find ourselves abandoned to ourselves. There there are threats to administrators, women, shopkeepers, citizens; yet nothing is done to improve the social situation. The same goes for a thousand other situations that we have faced. You will be able to argue that, in the end, this Commission is concerned with deepening an important problem, it has a low cost and a limited time. In fact, we will not vote against it, but we are beginning to feel hypocrites in this House and in the Commissions to deal with such high-profile issues, which are never followed by practical application and practical commitment. It is obvious that in the South, but not only (Bardonecchia, in Piedmont, was the first Municipality infiltrated by the mafia and police station for mafia), the Mafia phenomenon is an absolute emergency regarding infiltrations. However, we are also wondering why we are not talking today about 416-b, a rule which has been slowed down in its course of discussion in the Commission and which would even be preventive in relation to the protection of administrations. Instead, we are talking about a special Commission. The same applies to the issue of national security, for example. We are talking about threats and intimidation, crimes that are being committed, and meanwhile the investigation apparatus of the police stations on the ground is being completely dismantled. There are places - we have already pointed out - where they closed the office complaints because there was no card. So for this Commission, if you like, we sit outside a table, put down five points and strengthen the government line on those five points: at least they are clear. Let me give you another example: degradation and poverty lead the citizen to despair, and lead him to clash with an administrator who has been left alone by this State, often in a situation of heavy cuts to the funds for the management and administration of his territory. To this administrator who is alone, what answer can we give? All right, let's do a little commission, think about it six months, and then we'll see. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I can't feel it, we can't just vote yes, because it would seem to us, as you do, to wash our consciences with a good text, written well, which then really doesn't follow anything. We have always been there; if you want, you know that we can vote - I repeat - on the security of the territory. However, we must vote on practical and effective things now. In fact, in this country, as I said in a recent speech, before the vote on the question of trust, many factories close and we are with dozens of families on the street: it is therefore clear that this situation can only lead to a social confrontation. It is clear that you, members of the majority and of the government, are attentive to all this, but you are not on the track, to use some popular language, for which I apologise. I want to go back to the topic of security: we are impoverishing the territory, while out here, a few meters from here, there are dozens of BMWs used as blue cars. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It's okay to talk about these problems, but for a moment we have to be morally consistent and start to say: it's okay, if you need resources for the security of the territories, you cut these blue cars, you move the policemen who are out here and are employed in the police stations, you take them off the Val di Susa, where there are hundreds of policemen, who cost tens of thousands of euros a day - indeed, now hundreds of thousands of euros a day - and you take these apparatus back to take care of the security of the local administrators. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If then these initiatives - I dare not ask the question - do not serve in an instrumental way for the Val di Susa, like some norms that have been inserted in the law on the feminicide, regarding the yards. We find ourselves in difficulty on these matters, especially since it would have been possible to accept the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry into the work of the FTA, although I do not want to create a conflict between the Committees of Inquiry. Our conclusion is that we will abstain, leaving the freedom to vote in favour of colleagues from the Group who come from territories where there is a need for a greater presence, because they have greater problems. However, we are a little tired of the media exhibition that certain Members of Parliament need, as Presidents of Commissions who are going to superimpose themselves with the work of other Commissions. It has been said that the Commission will confine itself to ordinary crime and will not deal with organised crime. I have to say that this is a somewhat 'ballerina' statement, because we know very well that the major problem of local administrators is mafia infiltration. The House will probably vote in favour of the establishment of this Commission, which will take place, but we and the citizens would like something real to be done about health, safety and school, because that is where the major problems arise, from a completely devastated social fabric. We are here to talk, while crime is being committed and people lose their jobs: this must always be in our thoughts and time, from this point of view, is truly tyrant. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u28	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Northern League Group welcomes this proposal, which comes from the very commendable initiative of Senator Lo Moro and which has been signed by various members of the Group. It, in our opinion, gives a signal and draws attention to the urgency of expressing the country's closeness to all local administrators who daily, on the territory, especially in small realities, are forced to face the innumerable problems that, as we know, concern the local realities and communities, facing the difficulties often in a situation of complete loneliness. The purpose of the Commission's investigation is to ascertain and verify all those numerous and important episodes of intimidation and threat, of any kind, reported almost daily by the chronicles, perpetrated against local administrators, their family members and their property. The Commission's aim is therefore to draw attention to and make a detailed investigation and monitoring of the measures that can be taken to provide an effective response. I would like to remind you that the mayors, especially those of small municipalities, are with very few euros available, with very low allowances, if we relate them to those of us parliamentarians or regional councillors, to dealing with a multitude of problems. They often give up their allowances to make them available to community services. They are always available, 24 hours a day, they must be promptly connected with the police, control and public security authorities for the multitude of incidents that may occur. And often it is they, in the protection and defense of their fellow citizens, who are at the forefront and have to face episodes of real crime. They are subjected to intimidation of any kind, not only in certain parts of the country where we know there is a very strong organized crime, but also in other realities, in the North, where they suffer intimidation not only resulting from infiltrations of the clans that connect to the mafia or the 'ndrangheta but also from that crime that is born on the territory in times of economic crisis such as this, moments when the exasperation of the people makes more and more urgent the need for precise answers from the institutions. These mayors are in a state of solitude that an initiative of this kind, recalling the precise objective of expressing the closeness of the institutions, of Parliament and of the Government, can make them feel protected and protected. I would like to remind you that even because of the economic crisis that we are experiencing, many people can be affected by particular conditions. In recent days we have unfortunately witnessed dramatic, tragic and dramatic episodes. We all remember the case of Laura Prati, mayor of Cardano al Campo, in the province of Varese. It was an episode of delinquency linked to the particular situation of a person who was faced with the crisis and living a personal moment of tragedy, with these dramatic consequences. We also remember the case of many other mayors. A few years ago, the mayor of Oggiono, in the province of Lecco, received a bullet in his post office. I would like to recall the deputy mayor of Castellanza, in the province of Varese, Luca Galli, threatened by the Social Centres. Several therefore may be the episodes, unfortunately real, that our administrators are facing. We believe that this can be an instrument capable of providing concrete aid. It also seems to us to be a proposal of common sense, given the difficult economic situation we are facing and the lack of public resources, the fact that this Commission of Inquiry has a limited duration in time and is very precise, six months. This must be said to mean the need to contain public resources. Therefore, a six-month period within which the Commission, in carrying out its work, will produce a report to be forwarded to the Chambers, at a low cost. For these reasons, because of the importance of the Commission's objective of achieving this, the Northern League Group will support the proposal and vote in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u32	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Lampedusa this morning, just a few metres from the coast of Rabbit Island, a boat with 500 people on board has turned over. In the state, 62 bodies have been recovered, including women and children, and 250 others are missing. The agencies tell of the comments of the Mayor of Lampedusa, who speaks of an unbearable horror. I imagine that at the moment he is in a dramatic condition, also because of the need to assist the 143 people so far taken to safety and entrusted to the care of health care. I was struck by the fact that none of the news agencies even reported the nationality of these 500 people. We will never know its names; we will never know the names of those who will lie at the bottom of the Mediterranean together with hundreds, thousands of others: women, children, men, young people mostly. And I think on the other hand, in the face of the fact that we will never and never know these names, the network of pain that will involve thousands of people, and that perhaps already involves hundreds of thousands of fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, children. Now, Europe is big and strong and faces the Mediterranean with its power, with being one of the great powers of the world. Is it possible that all this can't be stopped? [[General applause]] Many times we have said that the Mediterranean Sea, the Mare nostrum, does not divide but unites, and we are reducing it to a tomb, to the point that even furrowing it and getting wet in its waters reproposes the drama of what happens on its bottom. Many times in this House we have talked about this and many times also colleagues of the League have suggested - I find it absolutely right - that the relations with the coastal countries from which these boats of death depart should be intensified, and that those who organize these trips should be pursued with all harshness. [[Applause]] , recruit people and then lead almost certainly to death those who seek hope, peace, sometimes, fleeing from war, disease, hunger, death, misery, civil wars. Mr President, I would ask the Government to report on the concrete, determined and unavoidable initiatives that Italy must put to the European Union, because this tragedy does not only concern the people of Pachino and Lampedusa, to whom I believe the solidarity and the praise of this House must go. [[Applause.]] This is not a tragedy that can only be faced with acts of individual heroism, with acceptance, with fraternity. We need decisive political action, and we need it without a break, because I really do not believe that any of us can sleep in peace knowing that this happens every day and that every day on our coasts this happens. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u33	Other Members have also called for action on this tragedy, whose contours are not yet defined but are certainly of dramatic, tragic dimensions and, I fear, unprecedented, in an event that has already been so painful that it has characterized the Mediterranean and has seen the attention of the institutions and everyone. Let us remember the Pontiff's recent visit to Lampedusa. The Mediterranean becomes once again, and in even more tragic dimensions, a place of death and not of life and hope as it must be. We're gonna raise the government. From the news I'm learning at this stage, I understand the Minister of the Interior is on his way to the scene. Therefore, the Government will report, in the ways and in the times that allow first the relief and intervention works, in the hope that this immense tragedy can be contained; tragedy that puts everyone in front of the responsibilities of the reception, but also of the contrast, as has been said, to this traffic that today marks a page of horror. Before giving the floor to other Members, by interpreting the sentiments of the whole House, I would ask you to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly stands and observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u36	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, thank you for the sensitivity you have shown in temporarily suspending the examination of the measures on the agenda. Taking action on yet another major tragedy in the Mediterranean is very difficult. At this moment I feel detached from political issues and I live with great difficulty, as I believe, even as a father, what happens. We have learned that there are women and children. It's a carnage. It's meaningless in our society. We agree with Mr Finocchiaro's words and therefore we also ask that the Government come and report. Peacefully. We want to be available, because something has to be done. However, Mr President, there is one aspect that leaves us grounded. Yesterday the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I am sorry that I was not there, because I could have said something, voted on a document on this issue. According to this document, aseptically drafted, the measures taken in recent years by our country to manage migratory flows have not been fair; it is also stated that if our country wants the support of European countries it must guarantee the resources: only under these conditions we will be shared by Europe. I am shocked by this coldness on the part of the Council of Europe. I would remind you that the European Union has been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. Colleagues, I believe that Parliament must do everything to ensure that our country is no longer left alone to deal with this phenomenon. It is a shame that Europe is dealing with such a tragedy in these tones. We may have made a mistake, but it is not possible for Europe to show this coldness at this historic moment. Mr President, the words of President Napolitano this morning concern us: we are concerned, as the President is concerned. We can't even guarantee Christian charity. That's disconcerting. I have the chills, believe me, I cannot intervene, in the face of such a tragedy, 62 dead and many missing. Europe tells us that perhaps the preventive measures taken are inadequate. But what are we waiting for to send the ships? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Puppato]] What are we waiting for to do for these poor people? This is crazy, ma'am. I'm sorry, but I'm not giving up. Without arguing with the Government, we have done so, but we do not want to do so on this occasion, I ask that something be done to ensure at least Christian charity. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u37	At the moment there are 82 victims, but unfortunately the budget is provisional. (Senator Crosio extends his arms.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u40	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we would like to express our solidarity and our closeness to the citizens who are currently experiencing this umpteenth and immense tragedy. We would like to express our closeness to the Mayor of Lampedusa, to the Sicilian institutions all and to the Sicilian citizens, who in recent weeks, as always, are not missing their great solidarity, their great help in the face of these tragedies of the sea. I thank Senator Finocchiaro for having imposed this moment of great reflection on the House. This is not, of course, the time for debate and political controversy, which we are not interested in. We'll think politically when the government comes to report. We share the need to understand the concrete actions that the Government will want to implement. We also believe that, while we are having this debate, we should, however, seriously - and I say this to all political forces - tackle the real issues relating to immigration. The problem of immigration is not only about Italy and the wrong Bossi-Fini law, the devastating effects of which are present daily on our territory; the subject on which we should really start to reason is the government of Europe and the European political choices for immigration and reception. This is no longer just a matter for the states directly affected by the sea and therefore at the forefront, but it concerns international and European policies on reception and immigration. What is happening in the Middle East and, in particular, in Syria at this time requires European governments to take seriously immigration and reception policies. I believe that, in order to make our best contribution to the debate and to the concrete actions against these new citizens who have landed on our coasts, we must also discuss the debate which, sooner or later - I would say soon - the Italian Parliament will have to face. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I am learning on Twitter that President Letta reports that he has taken stock of the immense tragedy in Lampedusa with Minister Alfano and the heads of the Ministry, who will immediately go to the site of the disaster for the first interventions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u44	Tarquinio (PdL). Mr President, the story is dramatic and one of the most serious, but it is certainly not the first. We must, however, make an examination of conscience on the part of all. I hear that Italy must do more: Italy has been doing so much and for many years, and it is alone in doing so. I expected clearer words, even from the friend of the League, than a deaf Europe, which has left us alone for decades with regard to this problem. We are only in Europe when they have to tell us what to do; with regard to the problem of helping us, of understanding that we are the frontier of Europe, they do absolutely nothing. Let us not forget the mistakes made by center-right and centre-left governments. We supported the Arab Spring: a good result! A huge disaster. We need to raise our voices. We do everything. The Sicilian, Calabrian, Apulian (less) populations do everything they can; the Regions do everything they can; the Municipalities do everything they can. What else can we do, if not give all of us ourselves, as the Italians have always done, historically? We are the people most ready to welcome and to Christendom. But this Europe is totally deaf. He's just asking for something. It is a European problem, it is a global problem. This is the actual fact. Guilts are huge. We had periods of calm, then we favored this so-called Arab spring, with thousands dead in Syria, Egypt, Libya, continuing. Does this examination of conscience never happen to anyone? Does not the Europe that has always asked for everything do this examination of conscience? They always ask us to give and to be alone. We're gonna keep doing this. As Mrs Finocchiaro said, these can only be moments of emotion with respect to the drama that is taking place. However, I believe that what must be asked of the government is not so much what all governments, all regions and all Italian municipalities have done, but it is to raise the voice with this deaf Europe. This is the voice that must come from this Senate, otherwise what are we talking about? We always ask ourselves. Italy is not a country of immense resources, we must understand it. We can't be alone with respect to a problem that's general, and it's scary. Europe cannot ask us to be available only when it is convenient, often for battles, wars and useless interventions that have caused the present situation. With this in mind - and I address Vice-Minister Bubbico here - I hope that the Government will act more clearly and stronger and that a loud voice will come from this Senate towards this Europe, which must understand that what we are talking about is a European problem and that Italy is the frontier of Europe. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u45	Although in such a dramatic moment, we do not want to deprive of a greeting the State Psycho-pedagogical High School "Regina Margherita" of Salerno, whose students and teachers are following the work of the Senate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u48	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened today is really a big problem, a disaster. Even today, death, tragedy and obscene strike our shores. It's a huge problem that involves all of us senators, us people, us individuals. Compared to this particular case, on 24 September last the mayor of Lampedusa, Giusi Nicolini, came to the hearing at the Human Rights Commission, of which I am a member, and told us what a disaster the island of Lampedusa alive. He asked us: what are we waiting for to see the end of the word? It is true, Mr President, and the Government will try to address this yet another painful disaster, which belongs not only to us whom we welcome, but belongs to the world, because it is an endless tragedy to see that only about 120 shipwrecked people from a boat with 500 people on board come to shore. We try to act, to find real, possible and effective solutions, and that is why we call on the Government and Europe. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u51	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, when there are dead people who are still to be buried, I believe that anyone who has to bow in silence. I do not think this is the best opportunity for political analysis or identification of strategies. Today is the day of mourning, the day of pain, the incomprehensibleness of what is happening in our world, and in our continent in particular. People who leave their land, driven by the need for bread or the need for freedom; people forced to uproot themselves from the place where she was born and where she conceived her own existence and found death. Mr President, my land, Ragusa, was the birthplace of Giorgio La Pira, who dreamed that the Mediterranean was the great square where you could meet all the people who looked out on the Mediterranean to be able to dialogue and grow in peace. Today Blessed Giorgio La Pira would be dismayed, but I believe that what happens in our sea would make even the hardest soul and man devoid of any glimmer of feelings. So today, ladies and gentlemen, let us be deeply saddened and not just denounce our impotence. Let us not just postpone the ball in the field of the European Union or, as we do at other times in an unpleasant way, in the field of public order or international relations. Today we take note of the fact that there are parts of the world where people die of hunger or where wars are also being waged for the conquest of mineral deposits. There is this in world politics, so we must also promote the overcoming of these conditions. Today, however, there are dead people whose names we do not know. It seems that there were seven children who were not accompanied by parents: that is, there are parents who send their children as long as they can find their own bread. That's what happens today. For those who are Catholic as I am, but also for those who are absolutely secular, these are facts that belong to humanity: "Homo sum: nihil humani mihi alienum puto." This is the humanity of our cultural tradition, of what we are today. Today there cannot be a referral to other areas or a request for a review of policy lines. Today it is not about this: today it is good for the government to go to the place to see what there is to do concretely, to roll up its sleeves for these deaths and those who have remained alive. Today we have to bear witness to our civilization like this. The government will tell us, we will see what to do, but it is something that must involve us as civilization. It is no longer a matter of belonging and does not depend on the branch of Parliament in which it sits, but it is a matter of civilization to which we must spend and challenge ourselves. I found the words of the colleague of the League important and heard, because nothing can leave us indifferent: we must all call ourselves into question, right and left, even those who felt that they were rigorist compared to those who arrived. Those who arrive have no pleasure in having left their land to reach Europe. I don't know if these migrants wanted to reach Sicily to stay there or to reach other geographical areas, but we give these dead Italian citizenship, feel ours, make them feel that they have, unfortunately from the dead, reached a goal, no matter how grotesque, but let's do it. [[Applause from the GAL, PDL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u54	Olivero (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the feeling that we all feel at these moments in the face of yet another great tragedy is truly appalling. It is, however, a dismay that assumes for us particular connotations, different from those that our fellow citizens feel, because this is a tragedy announced, this is a repeated tragedy. These who are gathering in the waters of Lampedusa have not died by chance, but have died of serious faults, shameful omissions, due to blindness or a desire not to see. The sea nostrum is at this moment, for the umpteenth time, sea of death. It is not a matter of making shameful political speculations (many, too many times, even in these hours have been made in the face of tragedies), but of jointly deciding, ladies and gentlemen, to make the subject of a proper immigration policy and the reception of refugees and refugees a priority in the action of this Parliament. Lack of attention to immigration and the reception of refugees: let us not forget that both these elements are behind the tragedy that is taking place in these hours in the waters of Lampedusa. I believe it is our task not only to call for a clearer position for Europe in relation to its responsibilities with regard to the Mediterranean Sea and the South border, but, together, to make concrete and feasible proposals on the part of our country, first and foremost, on the part of this Parliament, for there to be concrete consequences that will allow, if not to prevent altogether, to make much less serious similar tragedies which have been repeated in recent weeks and months. It is up to us to express the closeness of the institutions and of this Parliament to the victims and rescuers, who - I imagine - with constant generosity are now working to try to save lives, but we are also called - I think we must at this moment, out of rhetoric, really feel deeply called - to rigorous action as a result of these events. These deaths do not pass without changing our political agenda. They call us back to our duty and take us in a very short time to make subsequent proposals, that do not leave us once again spectators caught up in an anguish without the possibility of action. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u55	He asked to speak to the President of the Human Rights Commission, Senator Manconi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this debate is extremely important. I have little to add to the important statements made here today, particularly by Senators Finocchiaro, Petraglia and Serra and Senator Olivero, but also in all the other speeches. It's not my ritual appreciation. I must say that I listened with the utmost attention and emotion to Senator Crosio's words, which were the clearest confirmation of the immense extent of the tragedy and its consequences on individual and collective sensitivity. And yet, for an elementary duty of intellectual honesty, I hear that there is also a deep political issue at the root of what has happened. And it is a matter that cannot be ignored. Not even now. Not at all now. But I want to deal with this political issue quickly because I think that the space of our attention, our sensitivity and our reflection today must be devoted to other issues. And yet I say that against the background of what has happened today there are the perverse effects of the law called Bossi-Fini and of the policies of rejection, already repeatedly criticized and condemned by supranational bodies, the European Court and humanitarian organizations as deeply unfair. [[Comments of Senator Volpi]] At the moment of pain and mourning, we must not forget this. Of course, this is not the time and this is not the place.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u57	Senator Manconi, we are doing these speeches on a specific matter, the debate will follow on other occasions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u58	Mr Manconi (PD). Remembering this, I now want to integrate what my colleagues said with a figure: from 1988 to 2011, according to the estimates of a coordination of international religious organizations and according to those of Fortress Europe and of "A Buon Diritto" (Good Law), every day that God sends to land in the Mediterranean Sea six-seven migrants died on average trying to reach the Italian coasts and the European continent. A macabre bookkeeping entrusts us with these cruel figures. I repeat: from 1988 to 2011, six to seven people died every day. And a further dramatic element is the fact that we can only use estimates, which are probably assessed by default. They are, in fact, people largely without a name and surname, without a known biography, without a known history, without a family, parental and social network reconstructable. And their deaths are just as difficult to document. So, this sad accounting is fatally approximate. The figure of the dead has experienced a decline in 2012 and in the first eight months of 2013, but the tragedy that has just been consumed, makes this figure splash again towards an intolerable peak. It is certainly right what has been said by many: it is not Italy, it is Italy in Europe, it is Europe with Italy that must deal with this immense problem, thereby making our political agenda finally appropriate to what reality requires us. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u59	At the end of this necessary phase of our work, I give the floor to the Deputy Interior Minister Bubbico on the tragedy of Lampedusa.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u60	Mr President, I am only speaking to confirm what you have already told this House. Minister Alfano is on his way to Lampedusa, and President Letta follows the story directly. Of course, I also intervene to point out the Government's sorrow at this further tragedy, which follows only a few days the equally tragic one that occurred on the shores of Scicli. This is a problem that cannot be ignored, as all the senators have said in their speeches, and it is also necessary to build a policy, a strategy. In this sense, Parliament's contribution may be valuable in strengthening the policies that our country must be able to propose to Europe, since one of the priorities to be addressed during the Italian Presidency of the European Union has been the one relating to migration phenomena, particularly in the Mediterranean area. This issue must be governed and addressed and must involve the entire European community, but with respect to which our country cannot pronounce its own protagonism. On the events of this morning the Government will report - as requested - to Parliament as soon as the cognitive framework is complete and in the forms and ways that will be defined by the presidencies of the House and Senate. Our initiative at this time is focused primarily on helping, as much as possible, the people involved. In this regard, I believe that we must point out the extraordinary capacity of intervention that not only the police but also the citizens and local communities, once again, have been able to produce to alleviate the pain and suffering of so many people involved in these tragic events. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u61	I thank Deputy Minister Bubbico for his speech. Parliament will return to dealing with the issues ahead and with the tragedy this morning, whose vastness, unfortunately, we will understand only as the hours pass.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, let us, of course, take up the debate on document XXII, No 10. He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of the Committee of Inquiry, the 5 Star Movement, although it is close to all those who, at all times, suffer threats, intimidation and violence, cannot fail to express - as my colleagues have done before - strong doubts. It is yesterday, in fact, the news of a mayor of the Calabria region who resigned after his car was blown up, and goes back to the day before yesterday the very serious attack happened here, in the province of Rome, where the commercial exercise of the brother of a local administrator was demolished with the tritolo. Well, in the face of all these daily and extremely serious events, none of which date back to the Commission's subject matter, but all of which are very clearly related to organised crime, Parliament is firm and deaf. Colleagues, we have been waiting seven months to respond to these people, at least with the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, which is the right place to deal with these events. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I therefore ask myself, and I ask you, if this further Commission does not have to deal with these facts, what should it do? We must discover the hot water, that is, that our country has a very high rate of violence because the generalist TV, in the hands of a well-known victim, transmits daily programs that reward the honor and respect, the leader of the leaders and other amenities of this kind, that make violent subjects who commit criminal acts appear as heroes? Do we have to find out this? Or is there anything else behind this Commission? We will abstain out of respect for all those local administrators who are actually exposed to such violence, but I would not like, ladies and gentlemen, that behind this Commission, there should be an attempt, not even so badly chosen, to criminalise the legitimate dissent of the many citizens against bad politics, who organize themselves and protest against so many administrators who are criminals and create devastations of their territory and their cities. 11:45 a.m. (Giarrusso followed). Colleagues, frankly, I cannot understand what we must investigate if we are not to investigate organised crime. The acts of violence carried out by individuals are in fact the same acts of violence that individuals carry out at home against their partner, against their children and neighbors: if it is this violence that we must deal with, then it is certainly not necessary for the Commission, but something else, like those men and means of which our cities have been stripped and impoverished, not least the courts. We abstain, ladies and gentlemen, because we feel ashamed to vote for such a thing when we leave our mayors without a legal garrison like a court of law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is the terrible signal of a state that abandons them and leaves them alone as the last garrison of legality. After the court, in fact, they close the barracks of the Carabinieri and the other garrisons, and who remains there? The mayor, with the flag of our tricolor defending our state. I believe that we must deal with this, and in a hurry, but not with this Commission, which must deal, at most, with individual violence, mental illness or those who still have the port of arms, even though they are mentally ill and well-conclaimed (this is what has happened in many parts, unfortunately). I would therefore urge you to think before you spend more money on something that, if it is okay, is a waste of time and money. If there is worse behind it, it will find us as always, as strong opposition, opposed and vigilant. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u64	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u65	Mr President, when we talk about intimidation of local administrators, what exactly are we talking about? What are the acts of intimidation? Fire of personal property, fire of vehicles owned by the local authority, fire of the main house or that of vacation, fire of the dwelling of a relative, fire of enterprises owned by local administrators or of their associates, sending of envelopes containing threatening letters and bullets, sending of threatening emails and faxes, sending of threatening messages through Facebook, threatening telephone calls, cuts of personal and municipal car tires, finding of bullets in front of the private house, to the city hall or political secretariat, threatening or abusive writings on the walls of the dwellings or of the city, threatening writings on the tombs of the relatives, shooting at the personal car, shooting at the private house, shooting at the entrance door of the town hall, damagings and robbings inside the town hall, explosion of bombs in front of the private house, at the town hall or at other municipal offices, killing of domestic animals and not of personal property, sending of an animal head cut into a box near the private dwelling or the town hall, finding of dead animals in front of private residence and private logging in front of the house, killings of house, killing of domestic animals and not belonging to the property. Public Notice has published data from a study on intimidation against local administrators and public administration personnel in 2012, with a census up to 2011. The number of threats and intimidation increased in 2011 compared to 2010 by 27 percent, i.e. from 212 cases in 2010 to 270 cases in 2011. The phenomenon has been repeatedly the subject of attention of the anti-mafia investigative direction. The intimidating acts are not only recorded in the midday of Italy (where the cases are more numerous), but also in the central and northern regions, including Lazio, Tuscany, Emilia Romagna, Liguria, Lombardy, Piedmont, Veneto, Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Trentino-Alto Adige. Senator Giarrusso, in 2011 there were on average 22.5 intimidating acts per month, five every week, one every 34 hours. That's what we're talking about. Data from Public Notice tell us that in 2011 200 intimidating acts were recorded against public administrators, 33 against employees and managers of the public administration, and 37 indirect intimidating acts against schools, warehouses, vehicles and other municipal structures. Among the local administrators, the mayors are mainly the subject of intimidation, followed by municipal councillors. In 2011 an impressive series of threats was addressed in particular to mayors who govern Calabrian municipalities (Isola di Capo Rizzuto, Monasterace, Rosarno). This phenomenon represents a serious and profound degeneration of the principles of democracy and the relationship between citizens and local institutions. The aim is to destroy social cohesion. The objectives of these criminals have a strong symbolic connotation; harming, destroying, hurting, scaring them and then silence them is the purpose of crime, organized or unorganized. Prove that they are stronger, that the territory and the institutions are theirs, that the state does not exist; this wants to inculcate in the populations the criminal organizations. Then there is the risk that intimidation will become political practice, because some bitterness, which is repeated systematically, are also the reasons put on the basis of the dissolution of municipal councils; no less some intimidating acts have had as victims prefective commissioners called to govern administrations of dissolved municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore necessary for the Senate to address with a special parliamentary committee of inquiry an in-depth investigation to reconstruct the situation, to check whether the regulatory framework is appropriate, to check whether the capacity for intervention and attention of the central authorities and public administrations is sufficient or whether it should be strengthened to eradicate this phenomenon and to fill the loneliness in which these administrators are located, which on many occasions have expressed to us. Solidarity leaves the time it finds. We need to step in and fast. We must not leave them alone, because that would mean that the basic principles of democracy are at risk. Let us take our responsibilities, because we have already wasted too much time. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Uras.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u66	The general debate is closed. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur for his reply, I would like to remind you of the commitment we made at the Conference of the Leaders to conclude our work by 12 noon so that the hearings can be held in the first Commission. I know that the deadline of 12 noon will not be respected, but if the speeches of the rapporteur and the Government and subsequent explanations of vote are contained, we will respect the time agreed with the guests who have been called upon to report. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u67	Mr President, the debate was mostly converging and highlighted the usefulness of the Commission, taking into account, I believe, the sense, that that phenomenon that has also been mentioned by my colleague Ricchiuti is a national phenomenon that cannot be bordered in particular territorial areas of the country. It has more to do with dynamics and social phenomena than with aspects related to organised crime, to which the Anti-Mafia Commission is concerned, to which the acts which will emerge from the Commission's own investigation (there is, however, a precise coordination rule in this regard). The point is how, even through regulatory acts, we can lighten and protect the function of the public administrator. Our objective, with this initiative, is not repression, which belongs to others, but the improvement of the legislation, so that it will make the different subjects responsible and help the local administrators to govern in the certainty of the same function: in short, just to not leave them alone, just to not wash our conscience, just to not be deaf, contrary to what some colleagues have said. For example, if this Commission had operated and already completed its work, the same rules on simplification could have benefited from this work and could have been better. As far as time is concerned, the text provides for six months. It is also a constraint on time not to disperse the Commission's work, not to delay, not to use it as a fictitious instrument, but to ensure that the work can be delivered quickly, without hypocrisy. Of course, if it takes a short time later, it will be requested by the presidency of the Senate. So I am amazed that a colleague has declared that he is ashamed. I am not ashamed of those who do not vote for this measure, but I have a feeling of embarrassment about the fact that we do not take into account what Mrs Ricchiuti, for example, in the last speech of the debate, represented. That is the point of this proposal, and I therefore believe that it should be adopted. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u68	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u69	Mr President, I would like to start with a report two days ago: Rosario Rocca, Mayor of Benestare, resigned after an incendiary attack, and a few months ago Maria Lanzetta resigned as Mayor of Monasterace, after having suffered a very serious attack on her pharmacy. In particular, Maria Lanzetta, in motivating her resignation, pointed out the context in which she found herself operating, highlighting the fragility of the local authorities and the inconsistency of the administrative structures to which the procedures and activities related to the functions proper to them are entrusted. I wanted to report these two figures in order to express a sharing with respect to the task that the Commission will take on itself and to the contribution that can be made, to update, improve and revise the legislative and regulatory framework. The problem is not only to dissolve the municipalities for mafia, but also to strengthen democratic and administrative functions, manageable under conditions of third-party, impartiality and transparency; doing this means reconsidering the role of municipal councils, in which it is possible to make clear the contrast of options and interests and then take decisions in a collegial and plural context, which calls in the field the fundamental political options. Similarly, I think it is worth reconsidering the subject of controls, because the exaltation of the principles of responsibility and autonomy of local authorities must never mean irresponsibility or lack of rules. The conditionings and the factors of exposure of the mayors and municipal administrations are in fact directly proportional to the conviction that all the powers are exercised by the mayor and therefore to the conviction that if the mayor wants, it can be, lacking filters of other nature. These beliefs are also reinforced by a practice, on which it would be useful to reflect, which has introduced into our system a mechanism of spoil system, in an orderly framework not consistent with those principles, which leads to determining the situations indicated by Senator Nugnes: this should convince her of the usefulness and the opportunity to reflect, because it is not with the slogans that we face and solve problems. If those employees are led to exercise acts of fidelity with respect to those who appointed them and not to exercise the public function of protection of the general interest, this clearly puts us in front of the necessity to reconsider the organizational order, so that we can combine efficiency, effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and speediness of the public administration with the strict respect of the norms, reconstituting that sense of the state that unfortunately has been lost. I would therefore like to express the hope that the work of this Commission will not only give rise to detailed descriptions of the phenomena that often render administrative action ineffective or vulnerable, and sometimes also to the political choices of the municipal administrations, but will also show how to rethink the whole structure so that the factors of modernization, the recovery of efficiency are increasingly combined with the exercise of democracy and the respect of strict rules of transparency, the only ones able to protect public interests. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups and Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u70	I have read the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on this document and its amendment: The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the document in title, and the amendment thereto, shall, as far as it is within its competence, give an opinion of no objection.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u73	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we are voting in favour of this measure with conviction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u74	In addition to the compliments of this House, I would like to make my personal comments for the summary.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u77	CAMPANELLA (M5S). The 5 Star Movement Group will abstain on the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u80	Mr President, I know that I am doing what is pleasing to the whole of this House by only communicating the PDL Group's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u81	It is the height that applauds both those who plead in favour and those who abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u84	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, Mr Giarrusso reminded the Mayor of Benestare, Calabria, of the car burned on the night of 1 October. The tired ritual of solidarity with the mayors of the municipalities must stop. When something that has to do with the daily life of local administrators and communities is repeated continuously, indeed with more and more violence and in an ever more constant and pressing way and therefore becomes a phenomenon, the institutions must ask themselves what to do. We with this Commission want to stop this phenomenon and get to the substance of the phenomenon to understand what is in it. We do not want to replace the anti-Mafia Commission at all, which I must say on this occasion that we hope and urge the institution and the start of operation. We want another thing: we want to understand within such a vast phenomenon what is hidden, what pitfalls are hidden and how many different things are hidden. In this connection, I would like to refer to what Mr Uras has said. There is not the same motivation for every intimidation: there can be many motivations and many types of intimidation. Some of these are certainly to be traced back to organised crime, and of course this possibility that there is always and only organised crime serves to make the phenomenon more violent and difficult to attack. Our task is to move forward in this direction, to enter into the substance, and I must say that this proposal, of which I am first signatory, comes from below, is born especially when this phenomenon has been studied, first with bewilderment and then never with addiction, in Calabria by the Calabrian Legaautonomie, which is the first to have denounced this phenomenon; denunciation collected by Public Notice, an association that connects the institutions and local authorities. Well, today (and I conclude, because we will have the opportunity to discuss the results of the Commission and there we will probably not have to shorten and we will have to be more patient) there is an opportunity that the Ministry of the Interior and the Deputy Minister Bubbico have well interpreted, which can be valuable for Parliament's activity, for local authorities and for the Government itself, because we will have to gather incentives and enter into the substance of this phenomenon, and possibly, if we can, also make proposals to eradicate or minimize this phenomenon. I would like to thank all my colleagues who have fully understood why I have always wanted, first in the House and then in the Senate, to set up this Commission. I think it's a good time and I also think - I tell my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - that it's a signal. In fact, when a Commission is set up for six months, it is obviously born with a serious intention, because in six months either work is done or no objective is achieved. The results will prove us right. I therefore express my awareness of the importance that this Commission is to be given by the Democratic Party, which will vote in favour in a compact manner. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u87	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u88	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would point out that, by means of electronic ballot, the nominal vote of document XXII, No 10, in the amended text, will be taken with the warning that the Presidency will be entitled to make any changes to the formal coordination which may prove necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u89	The next item is the debate on draft law No 580. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u90	Mr President, this draft law deals with an objectively sensitive issue, which poses a number of problems in Campania. As we all know, building abuse has occurred in many parts of Italy, but in that region it has resulted in a particularly delicate situation following the two regional laws, subsequently declared unconstitutional, which have not allowed the use, as in all other regions of Italy, of the building allowance. This led to the need to proceed, after the judicial authorities' investigations, with the execution of the sentences for the killing of manufactured goods. The situation is also varied, since we are faced with demolition orders in number of 70,000, roughly like the entire city of Naples, with a problem of need for intervention on the timing of the demolitions, since there is no doubt that they must be carried out by now. Compared to this situation, which has led, at times, to the demolition or the demolition order for private homes, at other times no immediate abatement measures for commercial properties, Senator Falanga and other colleagues had proposed a bill that, as in the single text of the building, provided the possibility for the prefect... (Brussio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to ask all the Members who are speaking, both on the right side and on the left side of the Chamber, despite the interesting subject that is being discussed, to continue to do so - because it would be more useful - outside the Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Please, Senator Caliendo. , rapporteur. It was then intended to give the prefect the same power as he has when it comes to buildings built without a licence, in respect of which he can determine, in the overall assessment, his discretion regarding the time of demolition. With that bill it was proposed, therefore, that the judge, once established the criminal liability and ordered the conviction of the accused, send it to the prefect so that, in the overall assessment (as he already does, pursuant to Article 44 of the building code), he could provide according to discretion for the demolition. The debate in the Commission was wide-ranging. There was a contrasting position only in this respect, i.e. the identification of an instrument which was as least discretionary as possible and which ensured the execution of demolition orders. On this matter, therefore, the Commission also considered it necessary to listen to and question the prosecutors of the Republic concerned, having been aware that some prosecutors of the Republic had already identified models of behaviour, according to a protocol of understanding (such as Santa Maria Capua Vetere with the prefecture of Caserta) or a protocol of discipline (as in the case of the Public Prosecutor of Nola) that identified an order of demolitions. On the basis of this, taking into account those protocols which some prosecutors had already implemented (while in others there were several models, on the basis of which one building was expected to be demolished before another), the Commission considered, with the unanimous agreement, that it was right, also to ensure uniform application of the law, that there was, according to that model identified by the prosecutors, an order of priority in the implementation of the demolitions. This order takes account of certain elements: first, it considers the problems relating to public safety, because of the way in which those particular buildings have been built or the situations in which they are located; secondly, it took into account, not in the abstract, the value of the goods and their ability to have an influence on the housing capacity (one of the elements that is taken into consideration is the possibility that the person who lives in that property has or does not have another housing solution); finally, we also took into account the characteristics of environmental impact or the fact that the buildings were built on state property areas. We felt that these buildings should be placed in a privileged position with respect to the demolition order (a privilege to be knocked down first), establishing consistency with the aims of the standard. Within each of the categories of buildings, as identified, in the case of plurality of procedures, we have indicated an objective criterion of priority, based on the severity of the penalty imposed with the sentence of conviction and the date of detection of the crime. This system will ensure a uniform application of demolition orders throughout the Campanian territory and will be used in any other region. If the phenomena of building abuse lead to an excessive number of convictions, all prosecutors in the Republic will have to intervene in the same way. In fact, since this change is included in the Code of Criminal Procedure (as integration, because it is included in the single text of the building code), there is a uniform application of the law on the whole of the national territory, although in relation to an affair that, at present, appears only regional. Therefore, I believe that the Commission has worked not only by deepening what was the initial indication, but also by basing itself on the experiences already activated by the prosecutors' bells. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Cuomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u91	Senator Caliendo, don't ever call me privileged, because you have a concept of privilege that is not always favorable. As has already been announced, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u93	Senator Scilipoti, requests for an intervention at the end of the session must be submitted to the Presidency in writing. I will, exceptionally, give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u94	SCILIPOTI (PdL). Thank you, Mr President. I would like to speak on an episode which has been about me and which took place in yesterday's afternoon sitting. During President Letta's reply, I spoke out of the microphone, and I would like to apologise to the House and the Presidency, but with some clarification. My speech did not mean to be offensive to anyone, but it was merely a reflection on the great responsibility that President Letta was taking within this House, and applause also to those on the other side of the barricade, with reference to the PD files. When President Letta said that the time of hatred was over and that those who think otherwise must be respected, I felt that I strongly stressed the same situation to the attention of the House (perhaps wrong, because it was not the time, and I am recognizing it today) that three years ago, in different ways, the same situation had been presented and that people who then behaved correctly had been judged differently, supporting the then majority and applying Article 67 of the Constitution with great responsibility. Someone then stood up in this House saying things completely different. Yesterday in this House, President Letta made a statement and mine wanted to be a statement of esteem, even with respect to the senators of the PD Group who applauded, since sometimes Members apply Rule 67 and are free from the party secretaries of the bosses. Mine was a testament of esteem, and I am delighted that President Letta and a part of the parliamentarians who had then taken a completely different position understood today that respect for opponents is something important and that democracy is essentially based on constructive dialogue with the opponent. In fact, the opponent, or one who thinks differently from us, I do not say that often he might be right, but he could make a better contribution to carrying forward issues and battles in the interest of the country. Thank you, Mr President, that was what I wanted to say yesterday, and I still apologise to the Presidency for the moment we have lived in this Chamber of the Senate: but my speech - I repeat - did not mean to be offensive to anyone, but it was just a clarification and an outlet that was in favour of colleagues in the PD, those who have other arguments to support, and in favour of President Letta.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-117.ana.u95	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.27 p.m.
