ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,08 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u4	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the G20 Summit in St Petersburg. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Letta.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in St Petersburg, at the G20 Summit on 5 and 6 September, which I took part in together with Mr Saccemanni, we have had the confirmation that the world economy is coming out of the crisis despite all its difficulties. For the first time since 2008, i.e. since the G20 was born in this format, there has been no discussion of bailouts, sovereign debt crises or unsustainable fibrillation on the markets, but there has been confrontation about development, work and growth, which have been the heart of this G20. The G20 has been discussed, in the newspapers and in the great international press, for Syria. Indeed, Syria was not on the agenda: it was a passage inserted in a debate, which, in truth, was all about the issues that I now want to carry out here, together with you, that is, the issues of development and work. For the first time, our country has not been treated as a special watchdog, as a danger to the stability of the European Union and the whole economy, as a relapse to which the usual homework package has been allocated sufficiently. We have come to St. Petersburg with a lot of work done over the last few months and years: a work that has led to positive results. Of course, we arrived strong in the work and the many sacrifices made with effort by all Italians and - as stated in the Action Plan attached to the Final Declaration of the G20 - we were promoted for the results achieved. Sacrifices and work have found further recognition, and so I want to start from this point by saying that this has been a great result, an important result, son of a collective work, son of the work of these years. And I can only allow myself to point out with great force that this recognition can ruin it in a moment: as long as we throw away the fatigue and stability that we have regained tirelessly and we easily return to a condition of great difficulty. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and the Senators Liuzzi, Razzi and Torrisi.]] I say this particularly today, on a day when we have seen and touched with our own hands what it means that our interest rates, instead of continuing to fall, as they have done in recent months, continue to suffer under the weight of political instability. The cost of instability is a heavy one for citizens, for businesses, because it is a cost that is paid in terms of interest rates on debt. We all know that, but I just want to remember it for the memory of each of us: we pay EUR 85 billion each year, not in debt, but in order to keep the debt alive as it is; if we do wrong, those 85 billion become 87, 88, 89; if we do well, they become 81, 80, 79. The Germans pay 20 billion less than us in terms of debt, the French 30 billion less than us, the Spanish even 50 billion less than us in terms of interest rates on debt; I say this because in this House, as in the House of Commons, we see each other and discuss in the Commissions to move 10 or 50 million from the budget to the other, but it is enough that we make the right choices on the subject of overall political stability and these can be worth, for example, a billion dry euros from here at the end of the year; if we miss these, these can be worth one billion or one and a half billion euros in more cost than the service of public debt. That is why I want to stress here the positive result of these years of effort, achieved with the promotion obtained at the G20 precisely for this aspect; it takes a moment only to throw away all the sacrifices we have made and the positive result achieved in these years. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and PdL Groups]] Let's go to the G20 agenda. The Russian Presidency has strongly organized it around the theme of growth, declining the issue in four working sessions: the global economy, development, work, trade. In addition, an informal session was held, which we greatly appreciated, with the social partners: trade unions and entrepreneurs at the global level, the business community. A discussion in which participated, among other things, in representation of the enterprises, an Italian personality, the managing director of ENEL, Fulvio Conti. Finally, Syria, to which the first day's dinner was dedicated, as well as numerous bilateral meetings. I start with economic issues: all the differences between emerging and industrialised countries emerged during the Summit; differences in positions and perspectives, which remain profound. I am thinking, for example, of the opening up of trade borders, of the negative spillovers of monetary policies. However, in the face of these differences, the G20 certainly achieved concrete results. It is true that negotiations are increasingly complicated. But when they lead to an agreement, this is decisive and straightforward. Just think of the progress that has been made on the fiscal front (I insist on this point): a goal that we could not have achieved otherwise (I will go into the merits of the individual issues). On the eve of the G20, Italy had set itself seven priorities on the different points of the economic agenda. First of all, growth, i.e. the need for growth to be at the heart of the global agenda, after the months and years when (I am thinking of the G20 economic summits in Los Cabos or Cannes) the key issues were financial instability, rescues and emergencies. The St Petersburg G20 Action Plan outlines a clear vision, with clear commitments. We have called for and obtained, in order to stimulate growth, the same determination to achieve a balanced budget, and this is also a culturally and strategically very important fact. We need to get out of that sterile contrast between austerity and development and growth. Once again, it must be stressed that strictness in its own right is not enough if there are no policies for growth alongside it. From the G20 all countries have come out with commitments of economic policy. For Italy, they fully coincide with the agenda that we have set out in this Parliament together: the commitment to provide liquidity to small and medium-sized enterprises, paying quickly the debts of the public administration, in line with what the Monti Government decided a few months ago; the commitment to promote the entry into the bond market of small and medium-sized enterprises, which must be and remain even more at the centre of our attention, with the extension of guarantee funds, incentives with capital investments. We then undertook to launch the program of attraction of investments that we call "Destination Italy" by autumn, to make it operational as soon as possible. We have committed ourselves to continuing the simplification and improvement of justice, in particular the administrative and civil justice, vital in order to reduce the transaction costs for the enterprises. The second priority was work, especially youth work: a very strong commitment, starting with the June European Council and the G8 in July. The G20 issued a clear message calling on all states to adopt growth measures accompanied by active labour policies. In this regard, I recall a very important fact: the G20 summit for the first time applied a method that we introduced in Italy in June, with an activity that together saw the ministers who were at my side for Italy: the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour. The summit we hosted in Rome on 14 June between France, Italy, Spain and Germany was a summit between Finance and Labour Ministers together, a format that had not so far developed internationally. I insist so much on this point, that the G20 has relaunched (so much that in Moscow probably the most important preparatory work was the one in which the Ministers of Finance and Labour participated), because it is the beginning of the application of that concept I was talking about before: the heart of everything is not the Ministries of the financial economy, but the heart of everything is a complex of economic policies in which the Ministers of Labour play a fundamental role, because they are the ones that most of all have, in the end, contact with the people, the workers, the people who need the relationship with welfare. I quote this point because I have considered it a very important step forward for international institutions, which look at and must look more and more at issues not only in the centrality of the financial aspects. It is a mistake to imagine that the heart of everything is financial decisions: the heart of everything must be the sum of decisions, and we must try to put together the various aspects. I am therefore particularly pleased that the choice we have made here from Rome has become and is becoming more and more, with the G20, the most normal working method. On the subject of work, in the Action Plan, Italy has made clear commitments that I want to confirm here with respect to the law of stability and to future economic policy projects. Cutting labour costs is the heart of all growth policies compared to the issue of the tax wedge. I also recall the rapid introduction of Youth Guarantee, the reform of public employment centres. I believe that these are very important and central issues on which we will work. The third Italian priority was the regulation of shadow banking, of everything that is shadow finance and is out of the regulation that until now international institutions have managed to create. The final declaration includes a tight roadmap to be pursued, together with the Financial Stability Board, by 2015. This is the first time that this happens, and I consider it another important step, so that finance is not without rules, ending up in this way to overflow and create those bubbons that we have seen being the basis of the great crisis behind it. The fourth objective was to combat tax evasion. In particular, we have pushed for all G20 countries to be obliged to proceed with the system of automatic exchange of information by 2015 as a new global standard for the fight against evasion. It's a revolution. The economies that are worthwhile, those that met in St. Petersburg (80 percent of the world's wealth) have undertaken to fight against tax havens; a fight that is for us today the highest priority. There you go to find the resources, those resources of Italian capitals on which you do not pay taxes in Italy and which end up going out subtracting resources from our public budget. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups and Senator Bencini.]] We all know that on this issue there are no national logics that matter: either there is a great global and international agreement or the results cannot be achieved. The fifth objective, always on the subject of taxes, was the one that touched on the fight against tax avoidance. The G20 has accepted and approved a very important plan, and I want to stress this here because, as I think it is clear to everyone, the attention of public opinion, which was obviously all about Syria, has been a little more loose. However, I consider the issue of tax avoidance to be very important, because we lose a lot of money for our public budget. It is the so-called BEPS question (base erosion and profit shifting) that is all those rules that allow multinationals to evade the tax mechanisms between country and country, ending up not paying taxes due, especially at work, in individual countries and thus managing to evade tax. An agreement like this is a great step forward; we have worked hard to achieve it and I believe it has been one of the perhaps most important objectives of the entire G20. The sixth objective was the global anti-corruption agreement at international level. We have strongly pushed on the commitment of all countries to adopt UN and OECD conventions, and to equip themselves with appropriate legislative and operational instruments. Of course, we will be careful to ensure that these commitments do not remain a dead letter. The seventh priority - I want to put a lot of emphasis on this point too - was the fight against protectionism, which in trade ends up creating the worst conditions for growth. And a country like Italy, open economy by definition, with protectionism ends up losing more than all others. The agreement that has been identified, which plans to postpone until 2016, therefore more than the initial texts indicated, the blocking of new forms of protectionism I consider very, very important. In summary, goals focused but still a lot of work to do. On a strictly political level, the G20 has provided an opportunity for dialogue with emerging countries: I am thinking of Brazil, China, India, South Africa, as well as some countries defined as "next 11" countries, including South Korea, Indonesia, Mexico and Turkey. From Saint Petersburg, the opportunity has come to strengthen a common path towards growth and greater political and commercial exchange. The bilateral meetings we had with South Korea, Mexico, Russia, China, Japan and Singapore should be read in this key. To all we have illustrated the so-called "Destinazione Italia" plan, in our desire to develop it - of course it is not yet ready - and to all we have remembered above all the great opportunity of visibility and interaction offered by Expo Milano 2015 that was also seen - it is even more so for us - as a great and extraordinary opportunity to tell the best of Italy within a global scenario and to attract investments. After that, the G20 obviously focused on the issue of Syria. On this subject I want to develop the most substantial part of my reflection with you. Is it possible to walk the path of peace? Can we get out of this spiral of pain and death? Just a few days ago, Pope Francis raised these questions from the churchyard of the Vatican Basilica, which are echoed with extraordinary and vibrant force in the real square of Rome and in the virtual square of the international community; questions that affect the world and each of us and impose answers to the immense drama that they evoke. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, LAG, SCpI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] On this spiral of pain and death in Syria, on the frightening images spread by international circuits, on the uncertain and dramatic accounts of the victims, on the millions of desperate who day after day pass beyond the borders of that country, our Government has maintained and intends to maintain a transparent and systematic link with this Parliament. Already in the communications of 27 August to the Foreign Affairs Commissions of the Chamber and Senate, Minister Bonino highlighted the cornerstones of our position. Today I want to confirm that approach, updating it naturally in the light of what has happened. First of all there is a clear and unequivocal condemnation reiterated in every national and international assembly, formal and informal, against the use of chemical weapons, such as that in the surroundings of the eastern districts of Damascus last August 21 [[Applause from the PD, PDL, SCPI and LAG groups]] , and censorship for an act that is, without any doubt, a crime against humanity which, as such, requires a harsh, prompt and adequate sanction on the part of the international community. This, moreover, is the position of our American allies, to whom we reaffirm our closeness and friendship, especially today, 11 September, the day that evokes a drama that must never happen again. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, LAG, SCpI Groups]] , Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, LN-Aut and Senator De Petris). The use of chemical weapons, I said, cannot become a precedent and is the insurmountable boundary; it is the very negation of our perception of being human in relation to one another. For this reason, the international community must fully assume its own responsibilities. For this reason, immediate deterrent measures must be taken to prevent the use of these deadly instruments of death and fear in Syria, throughout the region and everywhere. These instruments, I recall, have been banished from the conscience of the peoples, as well as from the law, over ninety years ago. The second pillar of our position, also reaffirmed in St. Petersburg, is the central role of the United Nations as the supreme guarantor of international peace and security. This function cannot and must not be scratched. I am convinced that for the UN Security Council there is still space - narrow but viable - to take urgent and incisive measures to ensure the security of chemical weapons in Syria and to prevent their use. We have to go through that space. Our government is working, everywhere to encourage these diplomatic dynamics, firstly because we believe that military action outside the framework of legitimacy guaranteed by the United Nations will eventually generate unpredictable and dangerous reactions and counter-reactions. For this reason we have decided and communicated to our allies that Italy will not participate in military interventions in the absence of a preventive mandate of the United Nations. [[Applause.]] The third point is the commitment to building a common position between the countries of the European Union. Every international crisis is a challenge for the peace of the region and of the countries concerned. Today, however, more than ever, it is also a challenge for Europe, for the future of the European Union, in a world in extraordinary and complex transformation, a challenge for our common foreign and security policy and for the credibility of the Community project itself. Every European government has its own agenda and external constraints: we know that. However, it is crucial that, in spite of these differences, we all know how to find a common code to speak with one voice: the voice of Europe, the voice of a united Europe. If we do not do so, the penalty is certain and without appeal: the condemnation of irrelevance, a very high penalty that we cannot and do not want to afford. It is a penalty that Italy is looking for and will always try to foil, countering any temptation to renationalize foreign policies, wherever it manifests itself. At these points, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Defence, myself and the Government have kept everything consistent, even in the most recent developments of the Syrian affair, and we have promoted them in all the forums in which the multilateral diplomatic consultation has been articulated. Precisely on the basis of this approach, and in line with what has been said so far, Italy's accession to the document signed in the margins of the G20 meeting in St. Petersburg last Friday, signed by 11 countries in that forum and then by others later (Germany at the top). It is a document that has therefore been signed by all the European countries and by all the western countries of the G20. In this regard, I would remind you that, at the Italian and Spanish initiative, a final paragraph has been added to the St Petersburg Communiqué which commits European signatories to work towards a common European position. This reference paved the way for the consensus reached at the informal meeting of European Foreign Ministers in Vilnius on the European Union's united position, which was then expressed by the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Catherine Ashton. It is a position, I confirm, which is consistent with the Declaration of St. Petersburg: in fact, it also warns that the international community cannot remain inert before the barbarism of chemical weapons and calls for a clear and strong response. These crimes are unacceptable and cannot enjoy impunity. So far the declarations of intent, the communications, the words. Now we have to work to turn what we declare into facts. We must double our efforts to ensure that the Security Council really has the opportunity to take decisive measures and to achieve all these deterrent objectives. Space for an alternative solution still exists. In the last two days this opportunity has finally been qualified by some encouraging signal: I am referring in particular to the Russian proposal to place the Syrian chemical arsenal under international control. The Moscow initiative and the immediate American willingness of President Obama to examine it send out two messages. The first is the method: a political solution remains possible, as we have said from the outset. The second is the substance: while not condoning responsibilities for the past (which the appropriate international bodies will have to ascertain and in any case sanction), the priority now is one: to prevent the criminal use of chemical weapons from happening again. These messages were associated with the European Union, again through the Unitary Declaration, by voice of High Representative Catherine Ashton, who reiterated the need to follow up the proposal through strict mechanisms for implementation and verification. Implementation and verification. From words to deeds, in fact. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be deceived. I have hope, but let us not be deceived. The diplomatic road remains uphill. In order to gain consistency, this option must be accompanied by guarantees and checks. It is, however, a track, a road to be beaten with determination and good will. A road that reflects the wishes that Italy has been making for days: being now established the use of chemical weapons in Syria, the first urgency is an effort of the international community to sanction it and prevent its recurrence. In a few days I will leave for New York, together with Minister Bonino, for the inaugural session of the United Nations Assembly. There we will re-launch the Italian choice in favor of the centrality of the UN, and it will be an opportunity to contribute to further progress in the path of peace undertaken. From the issue of chemical weapons, I would now like, together with you, to broaden our eyes to two more general aspects which are equally urgent to question our responsibility and our own conscience. Firstly, the prospects for the conflict in Syria, beyond the issue of chemical weapons. We are and remain convinced that none of the conflicting parties is able to prevail at military level, nor would they be able to effectively stabilize the country through victories on the ground. A negotiated political solution remains the only viable option for a lasting stabilisation of Syria and the region. In order to do this, we must continue to support the convening of the Geneva Conference 2; urgent, indispensable. Some factors have so far delayed the start of the negotiation process, not excluding misunderstandings among the same promoters of the initiative. Moreover, in addition to revealing the most atrocious features of a civil war, the Syrian drama increasingly assumes the connotations of a war by proxy, and therefore it is now necessary that all actors who play a role in this crisis agree to defuse the fighting on the territory. I close on this point - and I come to the second - by sharing with you some thoughts on the response to which the dramatic humanitarian emergency calls us. In St. Petersburg, with a number of allied countries (including the United Kingdom, France, Canada and Japan) we have decided to increase immediately the resources for the humanitarian emergency, for refugees, since, to date, UN agencies have available funds of less than half of what would be needed. Together we have decided to intervene in the health field in support of the victims of chemical agents; together we have assessed how to remove obstacles to the route of humanitarian assistance in the country. These are three very important choices. I would like to comment on the first, confirming that we have decided to increase their contributions to the United Nations Humanitarian Response Plan. The Italian Government announced in St. Petersburg the allocation of US$50 million as an additional contribution to emergency management. Yesterday I spoke about how to use these 50 million dollars that the Italian Government will propose to Parliament to allocate to refugees and emergency management there, to avoid, of course, that all this translates into an even more resounding global drama, with the executive director of the World Food Programme, Mrs Ertharin Cousin, reaffirming our full support for the work that UN humanitarian agencies are carrying out in the region. We must alleviate the suffering in Syria and the neighbouring states, on whose borders 2 million refugees have already settled. I repeat the figure because it is impressive: 2 million refugees. It is an essential intervention for humanitarian reasons and to avoid the collapse of the economy and society of countries whose stability is valuable for regional and global security. I am thinking of Jordan; but I am also thinking of Lebanon, where it operates - and in a wonderfully effective way - an outpost of Italy, that UNIFIL contingent that ultimately makes us a country bordering on the Syrian crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, two days ago at Palazzo Chigi I had the privilege of receiving, together with Vice President Alfano and Minister Bonino, Domenico Quirico, a man finally free... [[Applause]] . .torn by a land that, unfortunately, continues to hide another great Italian, Father Dall'Oglio. In Quirico's eyes I have read the suffering of a drama, which has certainly been individual, but which concerns and invests us and our own role. From his tales, from his words emerges strong, in fact, all the complexity of the time in which we live; an extraordinary complexity, in this tragic case, to which we have the responsibility and the duty to respond with strenuous and courageous choices: choices to the standards of the institutions that we have the honour to serve and the expectations of our citizens, who ask us for decisions that can preserve security and guarantee peace. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, Aut (SVP-UV-PATT-UPT) and PSI-MAIE and GAL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u6	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his speech and his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u7	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I shall divide my brief speech into two parts, following on from President Letta's information: the first reflections are on the final declaration of the St Petersburg Summit on growth and employment, while the second part will address the issue of Syria. I would like to avoid repeating what President Letta has said, because we all know the issue and the terms in which it is presented to Parliament, but I would like to sum it up with one sentence: it is very difficult to get up, but it is very easy to compromise the results at one time. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we know that if you came to St Petersburg with the cards in order, this was first of all thanks to the sacrifice of the Italians and then to the instrument with which these sacrifices were made: it was the consequent, coherent and painful actions that the Monti government before and the government that she presides today, consistently put in place for the consolidation of the public budget and for the relaunch of our country. All that should intervene today to block this work, making the sacrifices of the Italians useless, would be seen as an act of pure political irresponsibility. For this reason, I say this frankly, looking at colleagues from the other political groups, we realize that the situation is delicate for so many reasons, involving important and fundamental political personalities for some areas in particular; but we believe that these misunderstandings must be overcome by relying on respect for the rules of the rule of law, on the respect that must always be nurtured for Members of Parliament, in particular - for those who believe them - for political opponents, and that it can responsibly compromise the outcome of this Government. The effort that Italians are making through it cannot be interrupted and, above all, cannot be frustrated. I would also like to say something else by addressing Mr Saccomeni. I didn't like the summer show of a minister who is pulled for the jacket by each other making it even more complicated the work that, responsibly and in a spirit of service, is doing for our country. I would like to express to you, Minister, my solidarity with my group. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]] The Letta Government is not the second half of our election campaign: it is a Government of political compromise, because it inevitably is so. There are points that are more at heart at the centerright and points that are more at the heart of other political parts, but we must give to those who govern us the task of making a synthesis, because if we are on every issue at the last beach you understand that it becomes impossible for anyone to govern, and I believe that no one, unfortunately, has the magic wand. That's almost everything. Then we agree on the involvement of the social partners, on the fact that we need to combine rigour and growth, on the need for the fight against tax evasion and avoidance to be put in place at a global level because otherwise it is impossible for each country to effectively address this issue. With regard to the last consideration I intend to make on the first chapter, we are strongly convinced that an effort must be made to lower taxes on labour. On the subject of the tax wedge, Italy has committed itself. Both the measures on the IMU and the blocking of the increase in VAT are very important, but today there is a need to give a drastic signal on the issue of the tax wedge and taxes on labour. As for the second point, namely Syria, I would like to be non-diplomatic, but - if possible - quite brutal. The Italian position is impeccable and is the result of the convergence between Parliament and the Government. If Italy was able to testify in the G20 and in the UN and in Europe a coherent and linear position was because on August 27, in the Joint Foreign Affairs Commissions of the House and Senate there was a convergence of all political parties. There were no divisions between majority and opposition, not between right and left, but - I repeat - between majority and opposition. There was no difference. We believe that a primary political error is a military action towards Syria. And I want to be brutal: here there is no state fought by Democrats and Liberals who want to replace the despot with something better; here there is a terrorist state fought by terrorist gangs. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] This is witnessed in an extraordinary way precisely by Domenico Quirico in his report that he did yesterday for "La Stampa". If we had intervened with foresight a year and a half ago we would have avoided refugees, the dead, but above all we could have shaped the Syrian opposition by channeling it according to constructive tracks. This was not done because there was uncertainty, an inadequacy, an inability to see. Today, intervening after so many crimes have been perpetrated, of all natures and all modes, with chemical weapons, but not only, by the regime and not only by this (even by terrorist gangs that oppose the regime) means going to fire even more irresponsibly a country. I would like to say to my colleagues that I would like to know what the Israelis think in their hearts, and not through public statements, of the possibility of having alongside them, a few kilometers from their borders, not an enemy they know very well, but a country in which terrorist gangs of Al Qaeda are flowing. We've made the right path. Italy, this time, has finally taken a position that should not be changed by a comma. I understand some embarrassment that our President-in-Office of the Council must have had at the G20, having been strangled on one side and on the other. Our position, however, has emerged crystal clear, because the position is right: we say that, without the involvement of the UN, there can be no presence of us in any action. But what does that mean? Let us put it simply: it means that if Russia and the United States do not agree, that is, the UN does not pronounce itself, unilateral action becomes irresponsible. It, by the way, would trigger a kind of creeping war between Russia and the United States on the Middle East, and we need Russia: we need Russia for Syria, we need Russia for Iran, we need Russia to govern an area that is unstable, because the Arab Springs have given us a situation in which the state of the individual states to which we used to relate has disappeared. This happened in Libya, and let's tell the truth: Berlusconi's reluctances were right, then, and probably were not perceived. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Bianconi]] In fact, in the end what do we have today? We have an ungovernable instability a few miles from our shores. I would like to point out to my fellow Members, because I love Parliament and parliamentaryism, that this time Parliaments have struck a blow, and I am referring not only to what little modestly we have been able to do. We had no problems with the Government, because Minister Bonino was impeccable, both in the Commission and in this House. But Parliaments have spoken in Britain, in the cradle of parliamentarism, where it never happens that a government is put in the minority.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u8	Senator Casini, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u9	CASINI (SCPI). I'm done, Mr. President. In the United States, these last few hours, he's still bargaining. We are talking about constitutional reforms: in a presidential system par excellence, the President, Head of the Armed Forces, must speak to the last Member of Parliament. But this is not a weakness: it is the richness of democracy and of Parliament that we so often fail to be aware of in any way yet. Yet that is the role of Parliament. I shall end the speech - and I thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - by saying that Geneva 2 is a very good page. We must push for Geneva 2 and we must reflect on the great message of Pope Francis. In that square, where Minister Mauro and other personalities were present, there really was a moment of great reflection on the existence and also on the role of politics. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, PdL, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Misto-SEL groups and Senator Bianconi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u10	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for coming to Parliament promptly to report, although he did not have to do so. The recent G20 meeting discussed the Syrian crisis that has lasted for more than two years. Several positions have emerged between the twenty countries and the divisions between the European nations have once again become apparent. There is no need to be proud, to use euphemism, to be part of a front of such fragmented and divided European countries: the interventionist France, the United Kingdom held back by the parliamentary vote, the simple spectator Germany and Italy waiting for the decisions of the United Nations Security Council, in fact trusting in the veto of Russia and China. However, this disappointing result is not born suddenly in St. Petersburg. He is the child of an inability of positive and proactive initiatives on this conflict. I am referring to diplomatic initiatives that have not seen and still do not see the stars of the Member States of the European Union and in particular do not see active part of Italy, which, instead, because of its geographical location, has perhaps the greatest interests in a peaceful solution to the conflict. Last May, during the summit of Foreign Ministers, we witnessed shocking Pilates' decisions: first of all, to give freedom to the Member States in relation to the sale of arms from 1 August. But then the Ministers themselves found themselves in August complaining about the military escalation and the terrible and inhumane use of chemical weapons on 21 August. They look like crocodile tears! I therefore strongly urge you, Mr Letta, to call for stronger and stronger diplomatic action by the European Union, of which we are founding members. But I also ask you, and above all, that Italian diplomatic action be stronger and stronger. Unfortunately, however, they do not help the divergent positions between you, Prime Minister, who signed the note of the 11 of the G20, which indicates in the Syrian regime of Assad the only responsible for chemical weapons, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who instead remains awaiting the report of UN inspectors, whose mandate does not provide for the identification of the author of the attack, but only of the attack. We are all in agreement that the negotiating path and the confrontation between the parties involved in the conflict are the only possible solution. A broad front supports this, a front that includes the Secretary-General of NATO Rasmussen, who spoke to this effect last week in Vilnius at the Interparliamentary Conference on European Security, up to Pope Francis, whose peace initiatives are known to all. The military actions proposed by President Obama this night are in danger of compromising the negotiating route for the resolution of the conflict. Italy must stay out of military action and, on the contrary, work to reactivate the diplomatic channels aimed at the realization of the so-called Geneva Peace Conference; this despite the objective difficulties that may arise. Mrs Bonino, on the various occasions when she came to report to Parliament, has shown that she has clear the complex Syrian situation. Strong of this too, we ask you, President Letta and your Government, to be more courageous in taking diplomatic action. I believe that Italy does not lack the possibilities and capacities to do so. Inaction risks becoming complicity. Italy must strengthen its choice for the diplomatic route with concrete steps and actions, otherwise it risks being empty rhetoric. Europe must also make a concrete commitment to the management of the large number of refugees, which is dramatically increasing in neighbouring countries with Syria. In Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, the number of Syrians who have fled the war and need assistance is growing. In the conclusions of the Vilnius Interparliamentary Conference last week, mentioned above, the need and urgency for greater European commitment to this humanitarian crisis was explicitly expressed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, please. Orellana (M5S). I'm almost done. However, it risks being an empty appeal, unfortunately; more effective and concrete would be a similar intergovernmental commitment of the European States. Italy must forcefully demand from all the European States, not only the four which you mentioned (some of which are not even European), more resources and aid for refugee camps. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u12	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Senators of our Group very much appreciated the clarity and courage with which the President of the Italian Council, in this House this afternoon, has, without nuances, defined a hateful crime against humanity, which calls for very severe and immediate sanctions, the use of chemical weapons. All the more intelligent and courageous this definition, insofar as it was accompanied by the clarification already defined - as Mr Casini reminded us very well - in the last week of August in the parliamentary committees, of an Italy that continued to give hope, credit and space to the legitimacy of the United Nations without participating in this action, at the moment perhaps more of retaliation than of sanction. Now, there is no doubt that the Russian position, which has been adopted by the United States and in some way emerged perhaps also because of Italian merit - let us say very low voice - at the St Petersburg Summit, opens up the prospects of not immediately resorting to American sanctions or reprisals. This means, however, that dismantling the Syrian arsenal of chemical weapons would, diplomatically, politically and morally, place enormous responsibility on the United Nations Assembly. President Letta is right when he described in some way the Syrian drama as a war for proxy. Here I can also recall a consideration of my colleague Casini: what were the Arab Springs but the extreme dissolution of every semblance of the statehood of these countries? Among these countries, Syria, to use the old Raganian language, was the rogue state by antonomasia, to which we have allowed an opposition no less rogue in recent years. Yes, but if so, if the accounts of the victims in these two years are what they are and if there is an impressive account of refugees (2 million refugees camping at the borders of Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey), then it means that in this war for achieving the immediate goal can be the already difficult chemical dismantling of Syria. But, in perspective, there can be the dismantling of Iranian nuclear power. Because a system of mischievous prosecutors, between Hetzbollah, Syria and Iran, is obvious and evident. Then, from this point of view, when we hope that the Russian signal will be received (the Americans have already done so) and - above all - we hope that on Syrian territory the United Nations will be able to activate the controls, we must also note that in recent years we have experienced the institutional failure of the United Nations as an institution of international legitimacy. Of course, we are European democrats who continue to hope, since the days of the immediate post-war period, for this great idea of the United Nations, but we cannot remain silent, precisely for the reasons that emerged in the words of my colleague Casini, about a country that is dear to every European: Israel. In the last twenty years, perhaps more, we have understood one thing; we have understood it later, when Secretary-General became Waldheim and when we saw the United Nations get ready. I quote the Head of State, without intent to appropriate it, recalling that, with great nobility, Giorgio Napolitano said: There is an odious form of anti-Semitism camouflaged as anti-Zionism and it is almost everywhere in the United Nations world. Nevertheless, we cannot fail to look with interest at what might unfold on the thread of the Russian and American affair and perhaps, without any nationalism, which would be provincial, on the basis of some good Italian idea, in St. Petersburg. In fact, the failure of the UN is also the problem that is already before us: refugees. If there is a sector of failure, it is precisely assistance to refugees. In fifty years the culture, bureaucracy and procedure of the United Nations have served to nourish grudges in refugees, but never to assist them in the different territorial realities. Even in its moderate amount of resources, the fact that important resources have been found between St Petersburg and Vilnius can be a fairly encouraging sign of a stronger European role. However, let us not forget - and this concludes - that the United States of America, no less than the nation and the Israeli people, are part of those European values for which we seek daily dignity and decency of political representation. [[Applause from the LAG Group and the Senators Liuzzi and Sibilia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u14	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u15	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it was not easy to listen to you from the outside, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when you spoke of Italy's possible participation in a conflict in Syria. The Constitution, which you certainly know, in Article 11 makes it clear that Italy is a State that repudiates war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of other peoples and as a means of resolving international disputes. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, went to the G20 Summit with the position of Italy, not considering it appropriate to come and discuss this possible participation in the Chambers, but you wanted to do it yourself: this makes me a little afraid. "A hateful crime against humanity": this is how you described the use of chemical weapons, just now, President Letta. I would add that this applies not only to chemical weapons, but also to conventional weapons. The accounts to which Senator Compagna appealed before must be done well, because the number of victims estimated by the UN - and therefore not by Italy - caused in Syria by the use of conventional weapons is about 110,000 people. These conventional weapons, Mr Letta, by whom are they supplied? What nations have supplied and supplied weapons to Syria in recent years? Why don't we ask ourselves that? Do you know why I say that, Mr President-in-Office? Because I wouldn't want Italy to be among the suppliers of these weapons. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris]] I would not like, Mr Letta, to have the Vatican behind one of the largest companies of national weapons. I do not wish, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that the person with whom you spoke - Obama, Nobel Peace Prize winner - is the same person with whom you want to talk about peace. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] No, Mr. President Letta, we're not. We would have come here again today with the signs in defence of the Constitution and its Article 11: we know that this cannot be done, and therefore we do not.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u16	I invite you to conclude, Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u17	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am therefore raising virtual cartels, which this time I am putting on your heads, on those of those who voted for the F35! No to war! No to war! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You talk to me about development, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: but what kind of development do you want to make? The MUOS (Mobile User Objective System)? Tell that to the Americans! To block an entire island? The war of Libya! Remember the damage you've done in Sicily, for my children, Mr. President Letta. No to war! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u18	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u19	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to join with those who thanked you for choosing the Senate, in addition to the House of Members, to report on the outcome of the G20 Summit in St Petersburg. These are the things that are not taken for granted, which in this case point to the centrality of the Italian Parliament, as provided for in our Constitution, and which give a very positive sign that we have chosen this path. You spoke of the crisis, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Unfortunately, however, we must stress that what applies to other European countries is not yet the stable condition for Italy. That is why every initiative that goes in the direction of threatening the stability of the government and the governance, which you represent, must be put in a position to not provoke any forcing in relation to the reasons that inspired your government program. In fact, a government program is made up of three factors. There are, of course, programme content, but there are also two content that is on the sidelines of the programme, but which is far superior: they are given by the internal and international credibility that is gained and by the stability that is achieved thanks to the maintenance of that government programme in the parliamentary classrooms. We do not need to repeat the mythological fairy tale of Sisyphus, because behind there are conditions of difficulty of this country and those who evoke threats about the government's estate do not love the Italians. I am happy to spend the minutes I have on the Syrian issue, about which we have spoken and discussed in the Joint Foreign Affairs Committees of the House and Senate, as President Casini recalled. I do this because I share the unpredictable position that Italy held at the St Petersburg Summit and because it seems that the way of reason prevails. However, there are three issues that the House - and this is one of the first occasions - must address, because these are three new issues that I unfortunately imagine will be lasting, which will emerge whenever we discuss events and international relations. The first concerns the maintenance, credibility and effectiveness of international bodies. We often appeal (and so did you) to the United Nations. The United Nations is born at the end of the Second World War in a completely different framework, of course, than the current one and are born to regulate conflicts between States: only for this purpose. They were born in a time that had seen the end of two world conflicts, two decades apart. The question that I address to myself is whether an organism of this nature is still in a position today to regulate conflicts that are very rarely of one State against another State and that increasingly take instead the dimension of civil wars: civil wars in Asian countries, in Middle Eastern countries, in African countries and two civil wars in the heart of Europe (Cecenia and the former Yugoslavia). My view is that this will be a lasting condition over time; instead, conflicts between states will increasingly be lacking and I fear that the instruments we have to regulate those conflicts are not valid for regulating civil wars. I have no objection to the fasting to which Pope Francis has invited us, but I am personally more inclined to the humanitarian interference of Pope Wojtyla, because otherwise we risk marrying hypocrisy, because States do not have the duty to fast: States and policies have the duty to act, to take a position, to intervene not only because there is a threat of chemical weapons. When civilians are killed in civil wars, there is no difference between the use of chemical weapons and the use of an archaic weapon. Our history is full of examples of this kind. Even the Church held, in the 12th century, a Council to ban the use of the crossbow, which was considered a little honorable weapon, because it allowed to kill at a distance, without seeing the enemy in the face. The chemical weapon is also part of this theory, but if wars from wars between states become civil wars, we have a duty to give an ethical, institutional and political representation to this dimension, creating the tools for States to intervene, especially with diplomacy. When you kill children, there is no difference between a chemical weapon and a Kalashnikov: you kill civilian populations and that's it. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Puppato.]] Finally, the second question concerns Europe. Europe has no role and in the absence of Europe (and I thank you for that) Italy has found a role and a role. Imperial Russia will play an increasing role in the absent Europe and will have a completely new role in China at our borders in Africa and the Middle East. With South Africa removed and the Middle East removed (the Mediterranean and coastal countries), now everywhere large investments belong to Chinese public and private portfolios. Without Europe - worth what a great journalist, Montanelli, said, said that Europe had ended when merchants chose to buy a blason and become landowners - more and more individual states and, among individual states, those with the most military and economic strength will replace the international bodies shared, such as the European Union. The last issue concerns Italian foreign policy. I repeat: I share and in your place I would have subscribed to the same document that you shared, but we have a duty to assess how they mature and how things change. The Israeli-Palestinian question is no longer central in the Mediterranean; it has been for forty years, but it is no longer. The Mediterranean is now the sea of migrants, Arab Springs that have returned to being too quickly winters, religious fundamentalisms and secular and theocratic dictatorships. This is the Mediterranean. We have a double duty. You rightly support Geneva 2; I would like to add, in conclusion, two other elements. The first is as follows: open the government a real match to Turkey. Turkey is the Mediterranean and it is Europe, and we cannot give it to any form of extremism. The second issue is an Italy that is a protagonist and asks for a Euro-Mediterranean Conference: I haven't remembered how many years it has been missing from an agenda. [[Applause from Senators Padua and Puppato.]] There is already a place: it could be Erice, in Sicily, for its contemporary and ancient tradition. But above all there is an initiative that Italy must take, because without the Mediterranean there are no international matches of Europe and without Italy I doubt that the Mediterranean can come out of the terrible dynamics in which it is immersing itself. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and SCP]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u20	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to start with the first part of the information provided by the President-in-Office of the Council on the economic issues addressed by the G20 Summit. President Letta told us optimistic signals regarding Italy, but I would like to remind you here that, just on the eve of the G20, in the OECD economic report announced last September 3, it was pointed out that the world economy is experiencing moderate growth, while the data relating to Italy - alas! - indicate (later questioned, but still remain) less than 1.8% of GDP in 2013. This clearly means that we still have to put on the ground as a country - quite frankly, and you know that, we do not repent in the measures of your Government elements that give us hope - instruments and operations, especially with regard to the choices on development, which are far from what we have seen so far. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you know perfectly well that the issue, which should have been a little more at the centre of the G20, is primarily about Italy, given the serious crisis we are still in, but also many other countries, given that it is the biggest crisis that the world has been remembering in the last century. The issue is the need to put employment policies in place, create jobs and reduce inequalities. The other issue that has completely disappeared from international summits and has a lot to do with the choices and the possibility of consolidating the signs of economic recovery concerns the issue of climate change. I put it to you that you are attentive to these issues because today in the scenarios of the international summits we now have a kind of disappearance, which is precisely the commitment on climate change. Kyoto is over and there are no other signs of this. Concerning data such as, for example, the 2015 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, which provides very heavy figures, are starting to flow. You know better than I do that we have to deal with this, but we'll discuss it separately. Instead, we have seen that the choices made at the summit and included in the document prepared amply before do not go in the desirable direction not only for the other powers, but certainly for Italy. We do not see any choices indicating the possibility of a strong recovery in employment and, therefore, strong support for demand. We see with concern that inequalities and poverty continue to grow in our country. On the IMU decree we will have the opportunity, also here in the Senate, to say what we think, but we consider it an example of how we do not make wise choices and, indeed, of how we go to cut in sectors that could represent a possibility of development in our country. We come to the issues that lie ahead and have been particularly at heart in the debate that my fellow Members have held so far. I am referring to the dramatic situation in Syria. We in these hours are encouraged - it is not only a hope, because hopes must then be cultivated with concrete actions - from the signs that come to reach, I believe, a negotiated solution to the conflict in Syria. The Russian plan, Obama's words, Assad's provision of chemical arsenals, must forcefully make us hope for the reopening of a window to avoid a military escalation. We have very much appreciated the position that Minister Bonino, in the joint session of the Foreign Affairs Committees of the Chamber and Senate on 27 August, expressed in a clear and unequivocal way against possible military action, being well aware - as President Casini said, of which I fully share the intervention - of the dangers of military action within Syria. It is clear to everyone now, Mr President, that it is certainly not possible to represent the Syrian tragedy as a conflict between good and bad. The last UN report, which has been announced for a few hours, also speaks of war crimes committed, unfortunately, on both sides and reports that the situation is much more complex. I would like to say a few words about the Syrian opposition, about the rebels. While we see and have seen in these months and years more and more the hegemonic strength and prevalence of all the jihadist formations in the rebel movement, we know that there are associations and movements that have another profile, that are of a certainly much more democratic and secular nature and that are now completely tightened in the clash between Assad and the rebels, that have been left alone by the international community, without any kind of support. Today the figures of the drama are tremendous: I am talking about the numbers of human lives and refugees. I repeat: just as we have appreciated the position of Minister Bonino, we believe that the Italian Government must work more forcefully, with much more force, and without ambiguity. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we consider the signing of the document proposed by the United States, and which you signed at the G20, ambiguous. Instead, we must continue to strongly support a position that has been shared by all political forces and that must be the instrument that Italy must use, in Europe and at international level, for the only wise choice that can be made in that context: to support the resumption of the Geneva 2 Conference, to support the negotiation solution and to be clear, unequivocal and unthinking against military action. We have been greatly helped, even in the openings that are glimpsed in these hours, by the action (so that I define it) of the Pope, who did not merely summon a vigil of collective prayer last Saturday, but acted. Not only has he been able to interpret the consciences, the will and the sensitivity of international public opinions (which are, fortunately, weighing heavily), but the day after the Sabbath prayer, during the Angelus, he has also revealed, putting everyone before his own responsibilities, what lies behind the possibility and also the desire for military action: the arms trade. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris, I invite you to conclude. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). No one could at this stage indicate the action of the Pope, as has often been the case in the past, such as that of the beautiful souls, the pacifists, or the imbeciles of Catholics. No one could do that, because it has turned into a strong action that has called for consciences. We must also salute the awakening of parliaments. I am referring to what happened in Britain, but also to the role of the Senate and the American Congress. I want to remember that here, as a witness... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude again, Senator De Petris. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I think that today we can open a different season, but in order to do this Italy must have a strong role in the position that sees in the negotiating instrument the only possible instrument in that area of the Mediterranean. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bitonci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u23	Mr President, my fellow Senators, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the communications devoted to the results of the expected G20 Summit last week come at a very important and delicate time when the expectations of a rapid exit from the recession on the international economy have been added to the hopes of a solution to the serious conflict in Syria. The agenda, as is well known and as can be seen from the statements made in St Petersburg by the Heads of State and Government at the Summit, has been significantly affected. Most of the sherpa's work on the preparatory dossiers has certainly borne fruit from an economic point of view, but these are very limited in political terms. The G20 failed to find any way out of the crisis caused by the use of chemical weapons on August 21st on the eastern outskirts of Damascus. As the Lega Nord Group, we will confine ourselves to making a few simple comments today. The first is inexorably a reflection on the role of this new multilateral forum, whose weight in world governance has grown parallel to the development of emerging economies, although with quite disappointing results so far. We want to make it clear: the G20 doesn't excite us. In fact, while the old G7 worked very well in coordinating the economic policies of the major Western powers, establishing from time to time who was responsible for driving the international economy, in the G20 things seem to be going very differently. It has been activated to try to overcome the crisis on the major Western economies involving emerging countries. However, this was not achieved, partly because the BRICS tried to exploit the time to improve their position in the international system. The pattern seems to be repeated also on the political-strategic terrain, in which the feeling is that things are going even worse, because of the less geopolitical homogeneity of grouping. We recognise that interesting things have come out in St Petersburg, especially from the point of view of the measures to be taken to try to promote a recovery that is accompanied by job creation. The problem of the management of debt accumulated by the States in these difficult years of economic slowdown and growth of unemployment has been addressed, but real agreements have only been reached on very secondary aspects of contemporary economic affairs, those on which it is easier to aggregate consensus, such as the fight against shadow banking (which you also mentioned), alternative finance, hedge funds and toxic securities. Not by chance, there are those who, with regard to the G20, are now talking about a mini-lateralism. In a certain sense, once again, efforts have been made to maintain globalisation, emphasising, for example, the need to continue to ensure the opening up of markets and the unity of the global market. However, it has not been made clear how this objective can be reconciled with the apparent tendency to set up more or less enlarged regional groupings, of which the European Union is the most obvious example, but not the only one. And, above all, they have remained outside the discussions - as far as I know - both Tapering (which is the gradual reduction of monetary entry, on the horizon of the United States) and the ambitious projects concerning the Transocean Free Trade Areas (in the future of the transatlantic area we should also be part of it if the negotiations started on 8 July are to be carried out). Tapering is an important novelty because, if it is confirmed, the US Federal Reserve will soon end (perhaps in the aftermath of the upcoming German elections) to inject the large amounts of dollars with which it fueled the start of the recovery in the United States keeping the whole international system afloat. This is as much as $85 billion a month that will disappear, probably fueling an increase in rates in America and perhaps a outflow of capital from Europe. Many emerging countries fear this development, which will also have consequences for us, in the European Union and of course in Italy, whether the European Central Bank (ECB) maintains its current monetary economic policy direction, probably devalues the euro, or decides to detach it. We'll see. This would have been the hot topic: a topic that we are very interested in since, if we decided to raise rates in Europe too, it would be a great deal of trouble for us to try to deal with. On the political-strategic level, the attack in Syria, which fortunately now seems to slow down, revealed two deep rifts, on which it is not possible to remain silent, since they also influenced the conduct of our government: the first is the one that led to polarization between the powers of the old G7 and the BRICS, of which Russia once assumed leadership; the other is the one that concerns the European Union. From the first point of view, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must note some fundamental ambiguity, because on the second day of work our Government succeeded in appearing both on the list of countries close to Russia, in rejecting the use of force against Syria, and in that of states willing to politically support the United States in their punitive action even in the absence of a mandate from the United Nations Security Council. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] In this case, by signing a very explicit written text at the bottom. This very choice, which divided us from Germany, was worth to your Government the criticism of Chancellor Merkel. And here we come to the second aspect that I have complained about: the new crushing of European solidarity, only partially successful. In practice, in St. Petersburg, our government has managed to generate doubts about our (in fact ambiguous) position as a country that supports the use of force, but does not unite, launching inconsistent signals. The international audience struggles to understand even when reference is made to constitutional obstacles, which also exist, and which are truly and seriously an insurmountable margin. Not bad, we might say. After all, there is nothing new, since in this circumstance the Government has only moved in the wake of a consolidated tradition of our unitary State, always ready to commute from one side to the other of the major sides and weak in the defense of its own visions and national interests, even the few times that is consistent with them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The fact is, however, that of these alchemies and indecisions, tricks and tricks devised to please the American ally, without too much bumping the Holy See, there are those who can be called to pay a high price. And we think in particular today, Mr President, of our soldiers in Lebanon, that in the event of a conflict with Damascus they could quickly be held hostage by the Hezbollah precisely because of political support in Washington. That is why we are making a subtle note that, before changing our position in such sensitive matters, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is appropriate to take appropriate precautions to reduce risks and vulnerabilities, and to prevent the labelling of your Minister of Defense fasting in St. Peter's Square, but at the same time sends the destroyer Andrea Doria to protect our UNIFIL blue helmets. In conclusion, we therefore ask you for a less approximation and greater adherence to the guidelines announced just last August 27 here in the Senate by your Foreign Minister. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u24	Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I come from the document which was signed at the G20 and which is not just a condemnation of the use of chemical weapons. Moreover, it is a document that has been very little published. I was able to find only one copy in English and I would like to read a small passage from myself: the signatories gave the UN Security Council a responsibility to conduct an international response, but they agree that the Security Council remains paralyzed, as it has been for two and a half years. The world cannot wait for unsuccessful processes that can only lead to increased suffering in Syria and regional instability. Well, Mr President, this is not at all central to the UN: this is a clear delegitimization of the UN! It is an attack on the paralysis of the Security Council which serves only to justify Obama for an offensive without UN resolutions and to present itself to Congress by saying: look at how many nations are with me in favour of the attack. This document signed by 11 nations, four of which European, is not only a condemnation of the use of chemical weapons, it is not even a hasty attribution of responsibility for the use of chemical weapons to the Syrian Government: it is a delegitimization of the UN. This is in absolute contrast to Mr Bonino's statements, which are reluctant, because he says: no, he only attacks the UN, but he does not report what Italy says to the UN to do. However, the contrast remains and even makes even the participation of Minister Mauro ambiguous in that sincere initiative of Pope Francis of a vigil for peace. I do not understand what Mr Mauro has asked if his President-in-Office is going to sign a document which makes it clear that the UN cannot be expected to decide and that it must be done first! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I think you should take the responsibility of saying what Italy really wants to do and not speak pacifistly in here and then, in fact, at international level, endorse an attack, because this is happening, with the risk of even dragging Italy into a war. In fact, in the meantime, news from our military airports comes of great preparation; there are Hawk planes ready to take off. I also remember that we have a contingent in Lebanon and, if there were an attack, it would be very difficult for this contingent of ours to be in no way involved in the inevitable enlargement of the conflict around Syria. That is why I completely disagree with what you said: it is not true that there is a transparent relationship with our Parliament and it is not true that you are pursuing the centrality of the UN. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u26	He is enlisted to speak Senator Romani Paolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his report on this complex and major G20, one of which is largely present in the final document, and the other, which is prevalent in the debate. The first, of course, is economic growth and the instruments to ensure that the current world economic situation is overcome, which was a priority issue set by the Russian Presidency. The second is the Syrian crisis, on which you, Mr President, have spoken a great deal. An important deepening is certainly the 114 points of the final declaration and the accompanying documents, in particular the St Petersburg Action Plan for Growth and Employment, which focuses mainly on investment. Themes on which to find a shared position: I think it has not been easy for the great differences between the countries involved in terms of economic-productive structure, but also and above all for the different levels and degrees of recovery of the crisis. The importance of convergence on common positions is therefore even greater. I am referring in particular to the commitment to establish financial regulation to combat fragmentation - you mentioned it in your report - and the instability of financial markets and the delay in achieving an effective banking union. The G20 perspective has surely brought back again the crisis of Italy in the most correct international dynamics. This does not allow us to hide from the specific problems of our country and our economic and productive system, but allows us to frame the processes of cause and effect and to regulate, therefore, our political action. Well, then, the commitments made by our country on cutting the tax wedge, on labour market reform, on paying public administration debts to companies by 2014 and on simplifying administrative and civil justice. Let me now focus on the issue which has been little present in the final document of the G20, including the failure - I believe - to reach a common position: the Syrian crisis. Eschilo said, "In war the first victim is the truth." When there is no front and war is so uncivilized that it is called civil; when the clashes are on an ethnic and religious basis; when not everyone fights for his own land, it is almost impossible to discern the good from the bad. Massimo Nava's reflection on "The Corriere della Sera" today leads to a consequence: it is not only possible to draw up rankings between the good and the bad. That is what has been happening for two years now in Syria. This is what has been happening in the Middle East for a long time. The West, faced with the dichotomy, more exogenous than endogenous, between Sunnis and Shiites, has tended to side with the Sunnis (with the exception of all remembered by Saddam Hussein), incurring - in my opinion - the error and illusion that in certain conflicts it is still possible to choose. While, on the one hand, the Shiites join with fundamentalism, unacceptable for lay states like ours, a certain stability and a certain homogeneity of positions, the Sunnis cover a very wide spectrum of interpretation of Islam, from the most secular to the fanatical terrorist, also making the Western position difficult to support. Today, Mr President, it is September 11th, as President Letta mentioned earlier, and it is impossible not to think about what happened 12 years ago. The strength and invasivity of the attack on the Twin Towers has changed our lives and still affects our everyday life. It led then and leads all of us still to say zero tolerance. But the war in Iraq, the ten years of presence in Afghanistan and the last Arab Springs show us that it is difficult to take a stand even if we do not fully understand the ethnic and religious complexity we are facing. Arab Springs have only complicated this already intricate painting. The romantic vision to which the West became attached initially turned into something different, depending on the countries where the revolution took place. In reporting to the Foreign Commissions, Minister Bonino made a fundamental step on the internal diversifications of the Sunni camp, which are also reflecting on the Syrian scenario. We must understand, therefore, that a fictitious dichotomy between Sunnis and Shiites does not exhaust the punctual and rigorous analysis of the forces that move on the field, as regards both the countries that intervene from outside and the rebel formations on the ground. The controversial attribution of the responsibilities of the attack with chemical weapons, whose images have gone around the world creating dismay and horror, recalls those words of Eschilo that I tried to report in the first part of my reasoning. But the images to which we are unfortunately accustomed, of torture and mass mass killings on both sides, are no less serious since the beginning of this revolution that betrayed a little 'all, paraphrasing the words spoken by Domenico Quirico at the time of his liberation. In these days, then, there are two news coming from those places: a good and a bad one. The liberation of Domenico Quirico is the evidently good one. Maaloula's fall is sincerely and actually very bad. If even a layman like me can recognize himself in some unforgettable places of Christian culture, the fall into the hands of Islamist, qaedist and probably criminal bands of Maaloula, cradle and guardian of the civilization and language of Christ, can only represent a terrible defeat for all, Christians and not. [[Applause from the PdL groups, GALE LN-Aut]] A patrimony of humanity is dispersed. A community that lives and has lived in peace for two thousand years in that village is swept away. Pope Francis recalled all - to prayer the religious, to reflection the laity - against this war. The Italian position, Mr President, has rightly been, from the outset, condemning violence, as you rightly said, but with a strong will to seek a diplomatic and political solution. The request for the delivery of chemical weapons by the Assad regime, promoted by Russia, can go in this direction and it is right that it be discussed seriously by the international community. Well the proposal of the United States and Russia of a Geneva 2, which is the most suitable place where it is finally possible to start an authentic reflection and share the concept that today it is impossible to indiscriminately bomb one of the two parties and leave free to militias at times Islamist, at times qaedist, at times criminal and that the alternative to an absolutist, closed and dictatorial regime such as that of Assad cannot be caliphates or fundamentalist regimes. Too many mistakes have been made in the recent past in the West in the Middle East. Too many times, Mr President, we have imagined exporting democracy and we have faced the worst fundamentalisms. [[Applause from the PDL and SCPI groups and Senator Sangalli. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u29	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to thank you for your information. We agree with the concerns, but also with the hopes contained in your report. As far as your speech is concerned, I should like to stress one interesting aspect. The issues of the economy and finance, which have characterized the first part of its information, are together with the international issues of peace and rights that have been addressed in the second part. It is not assumed that this will happen: usually there is the economy and then there is international politics. I believe that it is a positive signal that the two issues are being addressed together, for the reference to the globality of the issues and problems that we face, but also because this shows better the link between peace and security, on the one hand, and development, on the other, between international rights and legality and the possibility of growth, which is our objective. So, I appreciate this approach. On the merits of the first part of his speech I want to say that we consider the results obtained on the seven points and seven priorities advanced by our country, in particular the results we have achieved on the ground of growth, labour, fiscal loyalty and transparency. It seems to me that a road map emerges - to use this term - a road ahead of us that is right to carry forward with determination. I am also of the opinion that it will be useful and appropriate for us to come back to this House periodically, to come back to Parliament, to measure the progress we have achieved. We will have opportunities on the dates of the stability law and the major measures, but I think that sometimes it is also appropriate to highlight the whole battle we are doing for growth, for work and to correct the European approach to one-way austerity, which has given results, but which must also be tempered. On the other hand, as regards the Syrian issue, on which I have a little longer debate, I want to say that we share the concerns and appreciate the choices made so far by the Government, and stressing what you said from the first day of the G20 in St Petersburg until now: it is necessary to have a clear understanding of the gravity and risk of the situation. Let us be honest: this is not just a crisis. Yet there have not been and are not yet, even in the common feeling of our citizens and our population, the right tension and the right perception of the problematic nature of this passage. There are so many things in it: from the violation of human rights to the use of chemical weapons (but even conventional ones must be denounced), without forgetting the dramatic humanitarian situation that is emerging. I want to stress here - you have already done so, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I simply want to reiterate this - the need for a strong humanitarian commitment to refugees, especially women and children, who are moving hundreds of thousands and are opening up a new chapter in the drama of the Middle East. I would merely like to point out - because it has been a subject we have also talked about among ourselves - the dramatic situation in Kurdistan today, which practically sees an army of people pressing from Syria, a river of people who are seeking shelter from war and persecution. There is an exacerbation of very strong tensions and there is also a negative impact on the economy that can take place: here, again, the connection between economy and international security. The theme is therefore very serious, as many have already said: who understood it well was Pope Francis with his initiatives, and I also want to emphasize it. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you referred to this today, and I would like to reiterate this: the point today is to use all the available spaces for negotiation, negotiation, a political solution and to regain the proper role of the UN. There is a proposal on the ground, which is to put the Syrian arsenal under international control. As has been said, there is a proposal to organise a Geneva 2 that puts all the issues of international law back on track. We make every effort, even our own, to widen this window and achieve the desired results. To avoid the massacres, to dismantle the arsenals, but also to isolate and defeat the dictatorships and all the terrors that are being presented at the moment: this was, from the outset, the position of your Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and we have shared and supported it. The main route is that of the political-diplomatic initiative. There is no room for military intervention without the support of the UN and without a clear and reliable interlocutor, even after the dramatic experience of Iraq and the difficulties we have experienced in the Libyan case. Therefore, the political route is open, thanks also to the Italian initiative. We must say this: we must also acknowledge the government's new role, which is more recognizable and more autonomous, without weakening its relationship with the United States and other allies. There has been a distinction between positions on instruments and not objectives, not ideals and fundamental values to be defended. We also understand the needs of President Obama when he speaks of the ideal of security and his denunciation of horrors, which is also ours. President Letta, you said today that we need to condemn the regime without any misunderstandings, a response and a strong, continuous and adequate pressure. On this we will continue to support it, because we share this line and these efforts. I shall conclude by saying that, in our view, this is the first step, what must be done at this stage to use the negotiating space that has opened up, to block the war, to save lives and to defend democratic spaces. However, it is also necessary to look ahead (she, in some way, said so). This Syrian affair is destined to stir things up, many of the balances of the Middle East and the Mediterranean and also many of the international relations: within the Islamic world, between the great powers and also in the hierarchy of the various issues present in that area and in that territory. This calls for two crucial points to be included, on which I shall conclude. The first is the issue of Europe's role: if we believe in multilateralism, then Europe must be compact, active and influential. We have noted with satisfaction the report and the progress that has also been made in St. Petersburg and after that, but we believe we can say that it is still not enough. We need an initiative, a unitary capacity of Europe that also wins the specific tactics of the individual countries. This is a great problem, and I believe that Italy can play a significant role. Finally, there is the theme of the general importance of the Middle East-Mediterranean area in the overall balances, on which to exercise one more political and diplomatic capacity. We believe that the area of the Middle East and the Mediterranean must once again be the true centre of gravity of European policy, in the broadest sense. Especially when the events and the stages of enlargement continue to continue, especially in the North and East, we must not forget the fundamental value that the Middle East border, the Mediterranean border, on which Italy is most exposed, has for us. For these reasons we trust that your Government's work on these issues can continue fruitfully, we will not miss our support and we believe that these are really the founding elements of a political season that must continue to work to bear fruit. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u30	On behalf of the Senate, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his willingness to report and inform the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u31	The next item is the follow-up to the resolution on requests for the adoption of the abbreviated procedure provided for in Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure for draft law No 119 concerning protected areas, for the identical draft law no. 120 and 370, concerning the reform of the harbour legislation, and for the bill n. 121, with provisions in environmental matters. We shall resume the vote on the request for the adoption of the abbreviated procedure for draft law No 119. I remember that explanations of vote began in the afternoon sitting. 18.01 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u34	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, first of all, I would like to announce to the House that we have submitted a draft law, at my first signature, on protected natural areas, because of course we believe that a debate and further discussion on this issue are necessary first of all. In fact, we would have liked a debate in this House that was not just linked to the adoption of the abbreviated procedure for a draft law that was adopted in the deliberations at the end of the last parliamentary term, but that would allow a reflection on the value of the system of protected, terrestrial and marine natural areas. In fact, I would like to remind you here, since fortunately today there is a great discussion of land consumption and land-use planning, that they are an essential point of reference for land-use planning in our country and have historically been so. I would like to remind everyone that Law No. 394 of 1991 was a very important law for our country: my colleague Senator Caleo, who is here, knows perfectly well how important these areas have been, precisely to make a qualitative leap. We must all remember that they have allowed, however, for good or bad, with problems and deepenings, to preserve for future generations some of the most precious ecosystems in the Mediterranean region. This path has developed over the course of twenty years, obviously with alternate phases and with difficulties, with relations that at first were sometimes conflicting with the local communities, which were then increasingly integrated. Since many people in this House like the word growth, without adjectives, we can say that they have been an element of good growth and quality for our territories. So, after twenty years of implementing the framework law on protected areas, we can only say that the budget has been absolutely positive. I would like to remind you here that in our country there are 23 national parks, 27 marine protected areas, 147 state nature reserves, about 670 between parks and regional natural reserves, a total of protected land area that exceeds 3 million hectares, to reach 6 million hectares with marine areas. The system of parks has made a decisive contribution precisely on the qualitative development of our country: the impulse to naturalistic tourism, to rediscover the values of the territory, the identities, the union that has come to create, fortunately, with the agricultural and agri-food productions of these territories. The problem we are facing today is, therefore, certainly that of an update, of a maintenance of the current discipline, but it must be noticed, very careful, and it must see a broad involvement of all the subjects, of those who historically wanted and defended the protected areas and of course also of the subjects and the communities, but in particular of those who have the priority interest in preserving, maintaining and making a further qualitative leap to this system, therefore in the best sense of the term. Today we are called to vote on the abbreviated procedure on a text, which - I would like to say frankly here - presents aspects which, in my opinion, must be absolutely modified, and which, alas, has seen, as has been proposed again these days, a confrontation with the Federparchi and some environmental associations; a confrontation which, frankly - this is the attempt of our bill - we have tried to avoid bringing everyone back to a table, on a common position, because we must put together the best energies to improve the structure as well as the legislative and regulatory framework. So our effort is to find a point of mediation in the high sense so that we can actually do a profitable job. The perplexities of some associations that have been once again manifested, in some respects also with good reason, are related to the hypothesis that it is actually starting only from that text that has been fired, therefore with a job that could perhaps only be amending, without a real ability to involve all the associations again. In this regard, I know that other draft laws from other parliamentary groups have been presented, so I believe that we must again do a job which does not take that measure for granted, but which reconstructs a text shared not only in Parliament, and which puts together - I repeat - the associations that have expressed themselves in different positions in recent months. A work that can involve some subjects and that avoids, however, introducing spurious elements to what is anyway the end of the protected areas. Protected areas are born for the conservation of ecosystems, so we must not think of having to include, for example, perhaps within the governing bodies of the parks, subjects that have other purposes excluding the purpose of conservation. I am certainly not talking about farmers, who are indeed important and are linked precisely to the primary purpose of conservation and exploitation in a good way. Therefore, in the Environment Commission we absolutely must do this work and not take the text that has been laid off for granted. To Senator D'Alì, who presided over the Environment Commission in the last parliamentary term and who raised the question of the abbreviated procedure, I would have advised a different approach, what I hope we will be able to achieve within the Commission, namely to take responsibility for finding a solution on a shared text that really does that qualitative and improving maintenance work of the plant of Law No 394 of 1991, and certainly not of demolition. For this reason, precisely because we want to take charge of this recomposition function too, we certainly cannot vote in favour of the request for urgent procedure. We therefore announce our vote of abstention, as I have already said also for the merit of some parts of the text, but above all because of this work, also on the basis of the proposals presented by our and other groups, of recomposition and valorization of all the best energies that in recent years have worked for the system of protected areas of our country. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u37	D'ALI' (PdL). Mr President, I would like to briefly explain the procedure that this measure has taken in the last parliamentary term. I have presented this bill because, in my responsibility as President of the Environment Commission at the time, I have followed its work constantly. It has been a long iter, which has allowed a wide discussion with all the protagonists of the world of environmentalism, but also of the real management of the protected areas, both terrestrial and marine, in our country. The text, which is the result of a long debate, has been adopted, as has been mentioned in the deliberations, which means with the consent of all the political forces present in Parliament, and therefore unanimously, and I am surprised that some parliamentary groups today expressing their concerns do so without perhaps having seen the acts of the debate in which they participated and in which they gave their assent. Above all, however, the interlocation took place over time with the managers of the marine areas. Federparchi, as he has already explained in some communications of these days, has absolutely shared that text and urges us to undertake this work of revision, but certainly not of upheaval, of Law No. 394 of 1991, whose value and importance we all recognize in the panorama of environmental protection in our country for twenty years to this side. The revision is absolutely in fact, if only because more than twenty years have passed since its first emanation and it is an important work that, among other things, involves a greater involvement in the management of the parks of the local authorities and the world of associations, also and not only environmental, such as the agricultural associations, that today complain the consequences of the choice then made of their exclusion from the managing bodies, choice that has caused very serious consequences also in the areas near the parks because of the poor management of some invasive species of the territory extremely harmful to the agriculture. On the other hand, we are not here today to discuss the substance of this measure, but to discuss the urgency of taking action, an urgency which certainly does not imply acceptance of the proposed text, but ensures a preferential lane to the proposed text. I am surprised that those in and out of this House who continue to call Parliament unproductive are opposed to procedures which, on the other hand, allow a quick and safe discussion of the measure. The basic text, in fact, is absolutely amendable. If anyone has the amendments, even of a large part of the text, the leftovers; we will discuss them quietly here, but at least we will achieve a result, rather than getting stuck in what is - this yes - an extremely far-reaching process that always sees the protagonists of the bill of parliamentary initiative. If this Parliament wants to give a sign of presence and activism for its draft laws, as well as always being a Chamber of scrutiny and ratification of government decrees, we use the instruments that the Rules of Procedure make available: the urgency procedure on a text approved in the previous legislature by one of the two branches of Parliament and only for a few weeks not transformed into definitive law, because already the text had made its passage through the Chambers. Parliament uses these regulatory instruments instead of weeping over them because we cannot make laws of parliamentary initiative. As soon as it is possible to do so quickly, all the doubts and perplexities come out immediately, which are overcome by entering into the substance of the issues and proposing amendments, and then discussing the text. The People of Freedom Group will vote in favour of the urgent procedure, which is not - I repeat - a positive expression of opinion on the whole text, but it allows this House to have a basic text on which, if necessary, to make any changes it deems necessary. Mr President, the People of Liberty strongly vote for the urgent procedure on the text at our examination and recommend to the Presidency the continuity of the path, as the Rules of Procedure provide, for the calendarization in the Chamber at a forthcoming sitting of the debate on the draft laws. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u40	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the draft law before us is to update carefully - I would like to take up the word with which Senator De Petris has spoken - Law No 394 of 1991, the founding law of parks and protected areas. I must acknowledge that important work has been done in the past parliamentary term by unanimous deliberation of the Environment Commission, as Senator D'Alì recalled. Unfortunately, the path was interrupted and the discussion of the bill could not go on. Institutions, associations and various institutional sensitivities were heard in a spirit of loyal cooperation. Law No. 394 of 1991 is the founding law of the parks and was a good provision, as Senator De Petris well recalled. Parks, marine protected areas have been born and the starting point has been to increase an important environmental sensitivity in the country. The above-mentioned law has built the system of Italian parks, which have become an excellence for our country: places where biodiversity is protected and where new models of development are successfully experimented. I remember the struggles, for having lived them personally, and the skepticism of politics and institutions. There was a very isolated cultural movement in 1991, but in the end a good law came out. There was skepticism because the parks were perceived as useless bodies that cast the territory. For years there has been a battle, especially cultural: a bottle that has been won with the facts, putting good hay in the farm. Now the opposite happens, fellow senators. I have the perception, indeed the conviction that the condition and the observation phase that the parks have had over time has changed. There are benevolent acceptances from the farmers' associations; even the hunting associations understand the usefulness of having protected areas. In this regard, the support action of the municipalities is unique. In my region there was an attempt to merge protected areas and parks into a single entity and the municipalities, which had shown ostracism a few years earlier towards the park areas, were the first to support and defend them. I believe that this is a very important political and cultural reversal. All this has happened thanks to the constant action of the Federparchi, which is a bit the ANCI of the parks, which has been able to involve in a spirit of loyal collaboration all the agencies and institutions that have to do with the protected areas. It has won, therefore, a model of development that still has margins of growth. This is why some regulatory measures will still facilitate a greater expansion of the protected areas, a break in their borders, a contamination of the territories, exporting the environmental, landscape and cultural quality, so that this heritage of all constitutes support to a new model of development. This is the challenge of the parks for our future and of our country: building alliances with local communities, participating and guiding sustainable local development projects that have at the heart of nature, landscape and biodiversity. The draft law adopted in the previous legislature by the Environment Commission - I stress unanimously - together with the other draft laws presented by various Groups must be a trace to identify a common path and a unified solution that can help the system. Therefore, without contrasts, we will have to find a way to work together on the texts that have been presented and to elaborate a shared one that aims to facilitate the aforementioned objectives, that is to continue with the protection but also facilitate forms of economic and social valorization and simplify the procedures. Some associations and operators have expressed in recent days the need for clarification and some excessive concern. I would like to clarify a few aspects, three in particular. The first is that today we do not approve the law, but the urgency procedure. We begin to bring back the lights and light on an important project, that of the valorization of our environmental heritage, which is also a heritage of knowledge acquired in recent years through a work done with great skill and competence. Secondly, we would like to open up - and I will say this in the Environment Commission - a phase of listening and interlocating with all stakeholders, starting with those who have played a fundamental and extraordinary role, such as environmental associations. There must be no concern, therefore, because I believe there will be a strategy of listening and interlocution that has produced important results. Finally, I believe that we must not be afraid of innovation; I said this last week when this extraordinary agenda was adopted, in my opinion, on the protection and protection of the territory from hydrogeological disruption. I said that a country's reform capacity is measured by the degree of attention it puts on environmental issues. I am convinced that, like the work that was done last week, but also a few months ago, on important issues such as Ilva, the Senate will listen, reflect and decide for the good of our country. With these reasons, the Democratic Party Group supports the urgency procedure for this bill. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Alì.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u41	I put to the vote the request for the adoption of the abbreviated procedure provided for in Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure for draft law No 119. It's approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Santangelo, the result of the vote is very clear and clear. This is a superfluous act, but we shall proceed, precisely in accordance with your request. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. Colleagues, on the occasion I remind you that when you ask for the counterproof, it is usually reflected on the feedback, that there is always, between the checks and the counterproofs.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u44	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I just wanted to point out that during the counter-test I was unable to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u45	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for the adoption of the abbreviated procedure for draft law Nos. 120 and 370, of the same content. As draft laws of the same content, the Presidency warns that a single vote will then be taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u48	DAVICO (LN-Aut). Mr President, representatives of the Government, we are voting on this statement of urgency which comes from the past: in fact, already in the last parliamentary term we have arrived at the drafting of this text which aims at a radical reform of the Italian port system and which therefore requires maximum speed of approval. In reality, the provision, however deserving it is, brings some modifications to the law n. 84 of 1994 that, while certainly constituting a positive advance, could not completely resolve the inherent problems to the very specific Italian portualità. The harbour system is suffering, not only from today, and I try to explain some of its causes. The first is constituted from the serious infrastructural deficiencies, ascribable to the limits of orographic nature of our Country: for example in the extension of the harbour docks and the retroporti. A second cause is the excessive cost of labour and services, which has very serious repercussions, especially for possible foreign investments. The third cause is the length of the times for the customs controls, that it leads the marine traffic, that it passes even from Suez, to prefer North European moorings, much more distant than our ports, but where they are carried out the practices coming in faster. Our bureaucracy, our systems of controls and customs clearance even make us not competitive with ports that involve many more days of navigation. Today we want to accelerate the iter of this provision, presenting it as a second part of the reform of the ports, with positive relapses similar to those obtained with the law n. 84 of 1994, able to bring our portualità to make finally a decisive jump and in positive. Probably however the advantages that will carry this bill, that it is however positive and shareable as a whole, are limited and deserve to be shared first of all by the same harbour world. The representatives of the sector have in fact asked for hearings in the Commission and express the necessity of a more deepened reflection on the text, opening a confrontation on the role of the ports. Obviously, the priority is to write a good law. So the abbreviation of the times and the urgency are good, but we must write a good law, able to solve as much as possible the problems of the field and re-launch the great potentialities of our marine system, with undoubted advantages from the economic and environmental point of view. We share therefore the urgency of a harbour reform, provided however that in the Commission there is space for a wide debate and to make the necessary and indispensable modifications. In the last parliamentary term, our Group has proposed amendments to the text, some of which have been transposed, but others and substantial changes have not been heard, and here we should think about them and take them back more carefully. I am referring mainly to the possibility of ensuring greater financial autonomy for ports and greater liberalisation of labour within them. In addition, there is the problem of the freezing of concessions, which could be a serious danger, because the long concessions - which are too long for us - risk inducing a situation that would require dynamism, commercial and entrepreneurial vitality. In conclusion, we consider the choice to discuss as soon as possible this provision in the Commission, with an eye however turned to the European regulation that will fix the norms in topic of State aid to the ports, financial transparency and, more in general, to the liberalizations, and with an eye turned to the requirements of the harbour world in order to open a serious and attentive debate on the topic, that it gives space to proposals of modification tense to implement a real and, finally, more effective reform of our harbour system. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u51	Rossi Maurizio (SCPI). Mr President, I very much welcome what Mr Davico has said. First of all, it must be understood that the economy of the sea is one of the fundamental issues for the revival of the country, which, on the basis of the data 2010, generates 2.6% of the GDP, equal to about 40 billion euros. Unfortunately, this is not always perceived by public opinion and most political actors. For the first time, the Monti Government has included financial autonomy, even if only 1%, but it was a strong signal to the sector of attention and change. It must be realized that the ports generate a very important tax revenue for the Country (according to the Ministry of the treasure, in the course of 2011, the Italian ports have generated a tax revenue of 13 billion euros) and that if we do not destinate a part of this tax revenue to works that allow the harbour system to adapt to the world standards, this revenue will decrease strongly in the coming years, well beyond what could be the increase of the percentage of the financial autonomy. There is therefore a risk of losing, to the advantage of other European countries: traffic, tax revenues and direct and indirect employment that revolves around our harbour system. It is very important what is going on with the Minister of Transport Lupi, who shows a strong focus on investment to improve and complete the connecting corridors between Italy and North-Europe. If however the Corridors will arrive in old and inadequate ports to receive the new ships, of such dimensions that you could not absolutely imagine until a few years ago and for which we are not absolutely prepared, also these investments will become totally useless in the Corridors. We need to move the dams and make a series of interventions. But what does the Italian port system ask? Certainly an increase of the financial autonomy, but to devote only to investments for adaptations - as I said - on the forane dams, on the dredgings, on the displacement and the magnification of the docks and investments in cranes and other material to receive the great ships. The increase from 1% to 3% of financial autonomy is a fundamental fact and an investment for the country. I think it is desirable - yes - to do so also by decree-law, because it is urgent, it cannot be expected. The result will not be that the country will retain the remaining 2 percent if we do not want to increase it, but will collapse the tax revenues deriving from the traffics, of which Italy, from year to year will lose an increasingly significant slice. It would really be a shortsighted and harmful attitude. Apart from this fundamental aspect, as part of the Transport Commission, where we discussed the position to be taken on the reform of Law No 84 of 1994, I have repeatedly expressed my concerns about the draft law, having heard various positions of the leading national operators and associations. I am pleased that yesterday in the Commission I passed my request to give some hearings to the main national interlocutors, even if today the Senate votes in favour of urgency. We do not know how much time this Government will have to carry out this bill, but certainly if one thought of starting from scratch - as some say - I do not believe that there would be any chance to show the light to the reform of the legislation on the ports that we are talking about. It comes to think that those who stand up against, in fact, would only want everything to remain as it is today, since on this bill we can still make amendments in an amending way even significant. Here is a fact that I think is serious these days and that has convinced me even more to express my support for the request for urgency: the serious behaviour adopted by some members of the House of Deputies, who are in fact threatening the independence and objectivity of the members of the Senate, in particular those who, like me, are also members of the 8th Commission, called to examine the draft laws. This interference has already occurred since the end of July, even in public form through the press, which reports statements by honourable Members who feel that they should warn (or perhaps use the term threaten) that if we vote in this House for the urgency of the bill they will crush it as soon as it arrives in the House. I consider this to be absolutely irrational and disrespectful behaviour of the institutions, as well as in fact violating the bicameral system which currently regulates the functioning of our Parliament. I also think that we must take extreme action in relation to the work done by the senators of the last parliamentary term, which led to the adoption of this text, although - I repeat - we should first of all raise a few primary actors in the sector to consider how to propose improvements already in the Senate, in the Commission and in this House. In a short time we will be able to send to the House the bill, which at that point I hope, without preconceptions and defense of anyone's interests, will make the changes that it considers appropriate and will not sink the bill, as stated by some subjects, not without direct interest in the sector, to send him back to the Senate for the third reading and approval. I thank my colleagues in Commission 8a, with whom we have worked very well, for the clear and serene constructive debate, for having shared the need to hold some hearings and I declare that the Civic Choice Group for Italy will vote in favour of urgency. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u54	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, ladies and gentlemen, I shall not go into the wording of Acts Nos. 120 and 370, first signed respectively D'Alì and Philippi, because it is not the theme of today. However, I would like to point out that a reform of port legislation in a unitary text that incorporates all the relevant legislation, as well as desirable, is really necessary. Although we understand the willingness of the signatories to use the statement of urgency under Rule 81 of our Rules of Procedure, we do not support it. The measure is urgent, indeed, better, is priority, precisely because so long awaited, but a law of this magnitude must be up to date, must gather the suggestions of most of the associations of category and of all those operators and bodies that day after day deal, on the field, with the matter. The urgent procedure does not allow the necessary and careful discussion and exposes us to the concrete risk of approving an already outdated text. It does not allow us those insights to evaluate the provisions of law promulgated in harbour matter. By the way, tomorrow runs an exact year from the dismissal of the original text from the Senate and it is undeniable that since then some things have changed, like the port question of Genoa. Of the same warning appear the associations of category that recently have issued statements to the news agencies that support these reflections. Finally, I would like to recall the centrality of Parliament, perfect seat, at least to the Constitution in force, where from the confrontation with the realities of our country and from the confrontation between us can come out in-depth laws and to measure of man that satisfy both the needs of the legislator and those of the operators of the field, bringing benefits to all the citizens. So let us give priority to dealing with the measure in the 8th Commission and let us encourage it, if we really want to proceed urgently, rather than miss a day to request the shortened procedure, a quick timetable in this House. If necessary, we are also willing to have an extra session: the 5 Star Movement has never been afraid to work and has none. So let's take all the steps for an ordinary procedure. The only guarantee of a constructive comparison is the normal treatment. For all these reasons the 5 Star Movement will vote against the request for adoption of the abbreviated procedure for the reform of the legislation in harbour matter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u57	D'ALI' (PdL). Mr President, I repeat the same concepts that I have expressed in announcing the People of Freedom's vote in favour of the previous draft law. We will vote in favour of the request for urgency because, on this occasion too, it is a text which has been discussed for a long time in the previous parliamentary term, I would say even more deeply accepted by the Commissions and then by the Assembly, which has been sent to the House and which has not been finally adopted for a few weeks. It is true that time passes (a year certainly passed from the approval of this text in the Senate) but it is also true that twenty have passed from the first formulation of the law of regulation of the harbour authorities of our Country. Therefore, we have a duty to proceed as urgently as possible, and of course also with the utmost rationality, by examining all possible amendments to that text: this is absolutely provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I also repeat in this explanation of vote that it is a question of promoting a procedure and not of accepting a pre-packaged text. I am therefore convinced that, once again, on this occasion too, Parliament will be able to prove itself by adopting a bill of parliamentary initiative - even that of the previous parliamentary term - trying to overcome the usual cumbersomeness of our Rules of Procedure, which, as is demonstrated by what we are proposing today, often in a parliamentary term does not allow us to conclude the process of the bill of parliamentary initiative. These urgent procedures, therefore - I repeat - are also a moment of pride, if I may allow Parliament's time-limit for its prerogatives and its will to legislate and not just to ratify government measures. Therefore, the People of Freedom will vote strongly in favour of the request for the adoption of the abbreviated procedure. I would like to thank Senator Grillo, President of the 8th standing Commission of the last parliamentary term, Mr Matteoli, who has already dealt with the subject in the Commission and, of course, Mr Filippi, who, like me, proposed the urgency procedure and also collected the necessary number of signatures. I have already pointed out that Parliament, through the adoption of some proposals, will demonstrate its ability to legislate and to be able to do so within the necessary time to meet the needs of the country; concrete and real needs of the operators. We who live in sea towns know very well that very often the needs of operators are different from those of managers, who sometimes are the protagonists of the resistance to reforms. True conservatism is very often more in the intermediate systems between politics and operators than in the parliamentary classrooms. We hope, bringing this bill into effect, to confirm my intuition - if we can call it that - that we want to make reforms but often it is the country that is trying to block them. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u60	FILIPPI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Party of European Socialists fully supports the request for the application of Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure to the reform of the harbour system, for several good reasons which I am preparing briefly to list. Firstly, the time factor for passing a law is never a secondary aspect, especially when the expectation of reform for the current system is a long-standing need. In this sense, I would just like to remind the House that a revision of Law No 84 of 1994 is being carried out in this branch of Parliament, with various resolutions and alternate successes, for more than ten years, but without ever reaching its definitive approval. In this period of time have intervened factors of change in the field of international shipping really considerable: from a dimensional increment of the fleets, that it has no precedence in the history of the navigation, to an innovation in the organization of the logistics of the goods, that it has seen us chase from time to time drastic phenomena of social dumping, environmental and economic-financial. In essence, these are changes that make us feel that the period we are experiencing is a truly epochal phase of change. Suffice it to say that, in the twenty years that are behind us, our Country has benefited in terms of increment of the traffics thanks essentially to its geographic positioning that sees it - as we know - naturally placed in the center of a revitalized Mediterranean mainly from the traffics coming from the Far East along the Suez-Gibralterra route. For the next ten years, however, are previewed significant changes even on the routes of the international shipping, such to preview an effective loss of that rediscovered centrality of the Mediterranean Sea in favor of the South-South Atlantic routes, of those peaceful and even - as we have seen recently - of those polar ones, inaugurated also from the enormous icebreakers ships of Asian manufacture. In these scenarios of such enormous change, our country is debating with an order law approved at the end of the first Republic which, although it has constituted a factor of turning and of positive fundamental change, is however prior to the reform of Title V of Part II of our Constitutional Charter, which has seen substantial changes in the division of competences in this field. It must immediately be said that the legal text for which the examination is requested with abbreviated procedure is probably insufficient to fully grasp all the novelties I have mentioned and to which I still intend to refer in part. However, it certainly aims to complete and adapt a regulatory system, such as that of Law No 84 of 1994, in order to finally close a phase with the necessary legal changes made over time even more severe by the economic crisis. Our harbour system needs above all to recognize itself completely in its various existing and potential vocations and specializations, recovering a total mission in its classification and its international location, and seeking in the confirmation of its essentially public nature, due to the insistence of the structures of marine state property in the harbour fields, the possibility to know and frequent a greater entrepreneurial dynamism, essential factor for the increment of the existing traffics and for those of new acquisition. Beyond the revision of the current system I think we are also required to open a phase of confrontation capable of covering the current situation to the processes of change that I have called for. This will not be a debate to improvise either an easy or short job, even for the cultural changes that are likely to be necessary. For this reason - I think - it is certainly better to lead it into a condition in which the current legal situation is at least cured by the difficulties and contradictions existing, the first of which is constituted by the system of the available resources, but also by the norms of planning and the powers recognized in the harbour withins. Draft of essential aspects, for which the bill in question is born and articulated, starting from an effective autonomy financial institution for the harbour ports of call (called also in the other participations), essentially finalized to the realization of the infrastructures necessary to their modernization, but also from the necessity of more congrue norms of planning, that they allow a greater simplicity of the operations of dredging for the deepening of the harbour backdrops, today - also this aspect has been recalled - indispensable factor for our ports, in order to be climbed from ships of always greater tonnage and, consequently, of always greater fishing. Finally, planning rules are necessary to allow the approval of regulatory plans or their early variants no longer in biblical and indefinite times, but in certain and reasonable times, thanks to closed procedures and strictly defined in the ownership and in the times of approval, the latter indispensable factor in order to be able to allow hypothetical investments of foreign capital interested in our ports of call - as the same Government has recently wished - also for other infrastructural contexts. All aspects, these, adequately defined in the bill in question and at the time ‐ as Senator D'Alì said ‐ widely shared by the entire harbour cluster. Finally, I do not want to pick up on two issues which may affect the work to which we intend to prepare ourselves, with renewed support. First of all, the duration of this parliamentary term, whose forecast at the moment does not allow easy optimism and on which, however, we cannot take anything for granted. Perhaps it is precisely because of this paradoxical situation that every possibility and context must be exploited, so as not to make even one day of a Parliament legitimately elected and in the fullness of its functions and prerogatives until the day of its dissolution. Finally, there is the role that in this path - that we, as Senate, once again start - will want to play the other branch of Parliament and the Government. As far as the House is concerned, as I believe it is superfluous to recall its autonomy and prerogatives, I only hope that, with the changes which it considers to be most appropriate, it will be able to complete its work in good time for final approval. As far as the Government is concerned, here too I would like to repeat what has been said several times over the last few months: make the law what it wants. There are no attitudes, in this sense, of sterile birthright on the part of anyone. As far as we are concerned, there are rules that can immediately be adopted and translated into forthcoming decrees-laws: regulatory provisions - such as those on technical-nautical services, just to give an example - which have been awaited for a long time and which fully transpose agreements signed over six years ago and never formally disowned by any of the parties concerned. Rules that could see their easy ratification in a very short time. In conclusion, the abbreviated procedure that we anticipate for the examination of the reform of the harbour order to our way of seeing does not therefore constitute only a possibility that the Parliamentary Regulation allows us, but it wants to be in itself also a strong and clear signal, a message is to the Italian harbour community, that it waits from years greater concreteness and realization of our intense activities, is to the institutional subjects called to interact with the iter of approval of the norms in question. Let us put our trust in the hope that, in respect of the prerogatives and autonomy of each one, we will not make the best, understood as the changes that will be considered necessary to make to the text, also in this House, enemy of the good, understood as the effective approval of norms for too long expected in order to give more impetus to the marine-harbour economy, strategic economic and entrepreneurial field and fundamental for our Country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Alì.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u61	I put to the vote the request for the adoption of the abbreviated procedure provided for in Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure for draft law no. 120 and 370, of the same content. It's approved. On the third request for adoption of the abbreviated procedure, he asked the representative of the Government to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u62	Mr President, I would like to speak in connection with Act No 121 concerning amendments to Legislative Decree No 152 of 3 April 2006 and other environmental provisions, in order to inform this House that some rules have already been recovered within the recently converted Decree-Laws. In addition, the Ministry is preparing a text that recovers many of the rules in this act. I therefore call for the request to be withdrawn, in accordance with the prerogatives of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u65	D'ALI' (PdL). Mr President, the intervention of the representative of the Government is comforting me that the urgency proposal was absolutely valid, because the Secretary himself tells us that some of the rules contained in the draft law have already been accepted in some measures and, as far as the others are concerned, there is already an ongoing measure that, at this point, I hope can be issued in the form of a decree-law and, therefore, can have the same speedy features. Indeed, the rules of environmental simplification contained in the bill are much expected by many economic sectors and especially by the agricultural sector and some communities, such as those of small islands and other communities that can better manage their so-called public green. I am therefore available for the withdrawal of the request for urgent procedure and I take responsibility, in this availability, for the agreement of the other Members who have signed the request with me. I am sure that the other political forces also agree that an examination of a government decree-law can also replace this procedure with the same terms, perhaps even with even faster times of final approval. In fact, the decree-law must make its passage between the House and the Senate in 60 days, while the urgency procedure provides for an immediate discussion of the bill in the branch of the Parliament that approves it, but then it is also returned to the regulatory assessments of the other House and, therefore, could have an even longer process. In view of all these arguments that I have allowed myself to make after listening to the Government's request, I withdraw the request for urgency procedure for this draft law and I am sure that the spirit in which it was presented will be accepted in the government's measure, just as I believe that the previous votes on the matter of urgency have absolutely interpreted the will of the vast majority of Parliament, but also of those who have expressed some doubts, because the treatment of the draft law that we have proposed to the attention of Parliament through the urgency procedure has always been absolutely shared by all political forces. I would not have allowed myself to make requests for urgent procedure if these texts had not been adopted in the previous parliamentary term with almost the unanimity of political forces and, above all, with the unanimity of those that today support the Led Government. Therefore, I confirm the withdrawal of the request for urgent procedure and I hope that we will soon see in our classrooms the government measure which partially accepts the contents of this bill, having already other measures accepted a large part of the rules it covers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The third request for the adoption of the abbreviated procedure is therefore to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u68	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to understand better why the logical consequence of what has happened has escaped me: has Senator D'Alì withdrawn the request for abbreviated procedure for all the draft laws in question, and therefore also for draft law No 121? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He withdrew it for bill 121 only, Senator Martelli. MARTELLI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u69	The next item is the debate on Document LVII-a, No 2. Since the rapporteur, Senator Azzollini, is still in the Commission, I briefly suspend the sitting, so that he can reach this House. (The sitting was suspended at 7 p.m. and resumed at 7.05 p.m.) Let's resume our work. The rapporteur, Senator Azzollini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u70	Mr President, the Report to Parliament is presented by the Government pursuant to Article 10-bis, paragraph 6, of the Accounting Act No 196 of 2009. It illustrates the estimated impact of the measures included in Decree-Law No 102 under consideration in the Chamber of Deputies and provides an initial analysis of the economic situation with a view to the submission of the 2013 DEF Update Note. I recall that the measures provided for in the decree concern a further payment of the previous debts of the public administration compared to those already laid down in the bill n. 35 of 2013, the refinancing of the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni, a further safeguard of the workers from the raising of the requirements of access to retirement, measures in support of the families on mortgages for the first house and rents, as well as the reorganization of the taxation on the real estate. All the new measures will leave the net debt of public administrations unchanged by referring only to financial needs and debt. With regard to the economic situation, the Report reports the preliminary estimate of gross domestic product for the second quarter, released by ISTAT on 10 August, which shows a decline of 0.2 percentage points, better than the expectations of the main forecasters, while for the details of the components of GDP refers to the note on quarterly accounting data that was released yesterday by ISTAT. The so-called growth gained up to the entire second quarter of 2013 is indicated as being -1.7%, higher than expected in the economic framework of the DEF, equal to -1,3 percent for the whole year, mainly due to the negative result of the first quarter and some statistical revisions to the GDP profile of 2012. However, the latest available information seems to confirm, according to the Government, the hypothesis advanced in the DEF of a resumption of economic activity in the second part of the year. However, it should be noted that the quarterly economic accounts of ISTAT, in the second quarter of 2013, certify that the variation acquired for 2013 is -1,8%. The Report highlights some positive signals from the level of industrial production, which interrupted the trend of falling in the second quarter of the year, from orders, including those from within, and from confidence indicators. These trends are beginning to grow and extend from industry to other sectors of the economy. The confidence indicators of households and the trend in retail sales predict an improvement in domestic demand as a whole over the coming months, with favourable effects on the services sector. The latest export data are also comforting. The development of credit to the economy, on the other hand, still provides mixed signals: the lack of adequate expansion could constitute a risk factor for the recovery prospects. The assessment of the impact on the economy of the additional amount of debt payments of €7.2 billion in 2013 compared to the current legislation (Decree-Law No 35 of 2013) assumes that the increased injection of liquidity in 2013, if implemented sufficiently quickly, will give companies benefits in terms of increased investment, production and consumption. Compared to current legislation, the additional payments of past government debts result, according to government estimates, in an increase in GDP growth of 0.1 per cent in 2013 and 0.2 per cent in 2014, while the effect is zero in 2015. Improvement in growth is mainly due to increased investment growth and, to a lesser extent, consumption. The further payments of past government debt of €7.2 billion (approximately 0.5 per cent of GDP) result, pursuant to Decree-Law No 102 of 2013, in an increase in the issuance of government debt securities of equal amounts. This increased public debt will be considered in the assessment of compliance with the fiscal compact debt rule and applied to Italy in 2015 on data from the previous three years, which therefore also includes 2013. The previous debt payment measure (Decree-Law No 35 of 2013) had resulted in an increase in government debt of approximately 1.3% of GDP in 2013. It was considered an increase in public debt due to a stock-flow adjustment and its assessment by the European Council for the purpose of applying the debt rule is assimilated to the so-called relevant factors. I ask the Government that you apply, because it must be ascertained, if this additional public debt is compatible with the reduction profile provided for by the aforementioned rule (the fiscal compact). I remember there are 7.2 billion more in 2013. 2013 is part of the three-year reference period for the debt reduction rule starting from 2015 and covering the three-year period 2013. I therefore ask the Government to check whether this additional public debt is compatible with the fiscal compact reduction profile. The cancellation of the payment of the first installment of the IMU on the main dwelling owned from 2013 has positive effects on the disposable income of households, freeing resources that should, at least in part, be allocated to consumption since 2013. The set of measures for the real estate sector contained in the measures recently introduced by the Government (also not part of Decree-Law No 102 of 2013, but which constitute a single set of initiatives for the real estate sector) would result in an increase in GDP of 0.1 percentage points from 2013 almost exclusively attributable to investments. In order to have a similar effect in subsequent years, the measures adopted in 2013 should be made structural. In this respect, it is essential to ascertain whether such an assessment of the effect of the measures to support the real estate sector on the economy is considered to be net of the presumed contrary effect exercised by the cover rules provided for in Decree-Law No 102. The new public finance estimates for the years 2013-2017 elaborated on the basis of the new forecasts of growth of the economy and the impact of the measures contained in Decree-Law No 102 show a worsening of the public administration's programmatic values of net debt of about 0.7 percentage points of GDP relative only to the biennium 2014-2015, while they remain, vice versa, confirmed the objectives indicated in the DEF 2013 for the years 2016-2017. Both the needs of the state sector and the level of public debt increase by around €8 billion as a result of the new liquidity injection provided for by the emergency measure in question. The financial coverage of the measure is met by increased VAT revenue (925 million) related to the payment of commercial debts, the definition of 600 million disputes in the gaming sector, the acquisition to the budget of a share of revenue related to the electricity tariff (300 million) and the use of spending cuts for about one billion. In relation to the coverage of part of the burden of the measure through higher VAT revenues for approximately 925 million euros, related to the increase of the payment of the previous debts of the public administration for 7.2 billion, it should be clarified the reason for the different quantification compared to what similarly provided for in Decree-Law No 35 of 2013, when the greater VAT revenue was about 600 million euros compared to a payment of past debts of 20 billion euros. I would ask the Government to pay particular attention to this question, because it is clear that, depending on the estimate that the Government considers more correct, new VAT resources may possibly be produced for the payment of commercial debts. However, before considering such a measure, it is useful to consider the Government, not only here, but also, if necessary, for the continuation and especially for the budgetary session, for a more accurate quantification of the resources coming from VAT. These are considerable resources which, at a time of a bit of trouble, let's say so, may be helpful or perhaps not. In terms of the state's budget, the above measures determine the need to prudentally redefine the net balance to be financed in 2013 with an increase of 8 billion euros, mainly as a result of the forecast of the additional approximately 7.2 billion euros to be allocated to the payments of the previous debts of the territorial authorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u71	I would remind you that the timing of the debate has been divided between the groups as set out by the Conference of Leaders. Motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u72	Mr President, if this House at this stage were to discuss so many other issues that are felt more strongly by the media and public opinion, it would be full today. Since we must talk about the economy, the state of disaster in which this country is located, about how to get out of it and give an assessment of the tools that the government has put in place, and we must therefore talk about the lives of people, how we can allow them to have a job and an income, to be able to become a family, to have a perspective for the future, the Assembly is not interested and the presence is reduced. This is because we have a hierarchy of values that often leads us to reflect whether we are right or wrong. Since we have already focused on this issue when we dealt with budgetary adjustment and state accounts, I do not want to focus on economic trends. As we have already seen, we are in recession: some say it is a weakened recession, others say it is a prolonged recession, but the fact remains that we are in recession. Then I want to try to make a simulation, as does this Report, because we live on estimates, assumptions that we take for good without having done the necessary checks. GDP growth is estimated to be due, for example, to the payment of public administration debts to businesses, but we do not know whether companies are cashing in. We know that the central public administration has perhaps transferred to the local public authorities a part of the financial envelope that has been allocated to this purpose by Decree-Law No 35 of 2013, but we are living with estimates, and I ask this question to the House: if we had recovered, I do not know if a billion or one and a half billion, of IMU revenue to which we have renounced and invested this one and a half billion of taxation that remains in the pockets, distributed, of more or less wealthy Italians, for example, in an activity of building recovery of public heritage, or even private, defining valuables together with the enterprises, especially the small and medium-sized and the artisans, to arrange it by asking the credit institutions to support this effort and calling other distributed private or public capital and not in condition of being spent in the absence of such a program and if we had moved 4-5 billion euros in a great plan to revive the construction, would we not have had more occupation? Would we not have had more answers from the point of view of the business's development needs? Wouldn't we have had a relapse and even better estimates of GDP? How do we use the money that we also, in some way and sometimes, give or, sometimes, rake, recover and, sometimes, waste? Let us try to think about this when we take our action in economic matters. Let's try to think about how we're using these resources. Let us leave the selfishness, propaganda and temptations to prevail against the political opponent and let us pose the problem of the response that we must give the country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and LN-Aut Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u73	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear from President Azzollini's introductory report that the economic and public finance framework is now full of uncertainties and risks. The report we are debating today therefore illustrates a very delicate phase of public finance, a phase which should mark the transition from a structural deficit situation to the consolidation of the structural balance. The result of the draw of 2013 - we know well - cost a lot of effort and many sacrifices to Italians. It is a result that today, after having taken us out of the infringement procedure for excessive deficits, is in fact the only asset of credibility that Italy can spend in European, international and market fora. We still heard President Letta reporting, with his image of the bad guys behind the board, how at the G20 we had come out from behind the board. But this result - and we must know this - is not forever acquired: in the coming years we will not only have to respect the balance of the budget, but we will also have to produce a primary surplus sufficient to achieve that reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio which should lead to a half-life in the course of 20 years. So the exams for us are not over, because it is about the ability to honour these commitments that we will be measured and we will be given the credit that is essential to us if we want to devote the few resources available to public investment and not to pay for new increases in interest rates. The data we discussed yesterday during the examination of the settlement bill and the relationship with which the government takes into account the prospective effects of the measures taken in the first months of this legislature are not entirely reassuring, as President Azzollini once again said. Firstly, the very significant drop in tax revenue, almost a point of GDP, mainly due to the decrease in VAT revenue, despite the increase in the rate and, on the other hand, an increase in the cost of debt and the level of debt. These figures are likely to worsen further, after yesterday ISTAT cut GDP estimates for 2013, bringing them to less than 2.1%, although many analysts (today Confindustria was still doing so) indicate a slight recovery by the end of the year (we hope to share this optimism). Faced with this picture the message that the worst has passed and that we can go back to the way we always go, that is to support employment and public investment in strategic sectors for competitiveness (i.e. school, research, digital transformation and infrastructure) financing them with public expenditure in deficit is illusory and misleading. And not only would this produce harmful financial effects but, what is perhaps worse (and we must reflect on this), it would put back that process of awareness begun in the minds and conscience of the Italians with the crisis of November 2011 and would block in the birth that cultural change that the language of truth with which the Monti Government addressed itself in those months to the country has just begun. And it must not be said that the truth takes away hope. Far from it: I believe the opposite is true, because the truth can show us the way along which our country has all the cards to find a mission and pride in the global world. It is only by continuing to use that language, in fact, that we can build the conditions of context and system indispensable for a new impetus of our economy that is based on the quality and abilities that the world recognizes us and that we have not lost in these months. Our craftsmanship, in fact, our creativity and entrepreneurial spirit are still the only force that, thanks to the holding of exports, as the macro-economic data say, makes our economy stand. This is the horizon of hope with which Italy can grasp that wind (which, in truth, it seems to me, more than a wind, still only as a smallfolo) of the recovery and not disperse this new opportunity as it did in the 2000s, when, while some European countries, in particular Germany, thanks to internal reforms, transformed global growth into a robust and permanent strengthening of the internal economy, Italy failed to change its competitiveness gap in anything (the reason for which we are still holding back). The picture that emerges from the Government's Report, which is a little ahead of the presentation of the Stability Act, tells us that we are not going in this direction. The intervention on the IMU - which we will have the opportunity to analyse in detail when the measure comes from the House - is, in our opinion, incompatible with the situation of public finance and with the priorities of economic growth. It is a measure that goes in the opposite direction to the one unanimously indicated as essential for growth, i.e. to relieve the tax burden on businesses and on labour income overwhelmed by an unsustainable tax burden. In addition, the measures on public employment go back to old logics of stabilization of the precarious, postponing the process of qualification of the public administrations and their gradual reduction, and betraying the expectations of deserving young people who are waiting to have the opportunity to enter the public administration. But what is most concerned, and that the Budget Commission will be called upon to assess with extreme attention and rigour, is the financial cover. None of the minor entrances and the higher current expenses decided by the Government since its establishment are covered with expenditure reductions. We are moving taxes from one side to the other, we are expecting more VAT revenue when we have seen the sharp reduction in the revenue forecast for the current year, we are increasing the excise duty rates, the revenue of which is also falling sharply. The only pro-growth measure is that of public government debt payments, a process made possible by the seriousness of the financial consolidation carried out in 2012 and the closure of the excessive deficit procedure. Parliament has committed itself to this issue with a unanimity of intent and an energy that few times have been recorded, and this operation is now entrusted, also by the Government, with the hopes of growth for the next two years. Attention, however, and I recall the undersecretary Baretta here present; the data we had, updated at the beginning of September, signal an exasperating slowness of the administrations, in particular of the central ones, in the actual payments of the debts. Here the government must work hard and play a lot of its ability to govern and orient the bureaucratic apparatus. Indeed, the failure, even a partial one, of this operation would have very serious consequences in economic and financial terms and, above all, would undermine - I believe irreparably - the reliability of the State and its relationship with citizens and businesses. The uncertainty of many budgetary posts and the return to the ancient in many interventions point to a very clear fact: there are no resources, and it certainly amazes - this we must observe - the veiled lecture suffered by the poor minister Saccomeni for having made a statement as true as trivial, that is, that, in the state, for the generous and also shared, at least for some parts, government-union agreement, the money is not there. Resources can only come from growth, from the fight against tax evasion and, as has been said, from spending review. Here, however, it is necessary to be clear: spending review can no longer be translated with the word "cuts" but with the word "reform". In other words, we need a reorganization of all public administrations, starting with the abolition of some of the seven or eight levels of government, starting with the Provinces which, after many months up and down, for the moment continue to be all there, alive and well; we need to push on liberalisations and privatisations and focus on fiscal incentives that direct private capital on investments in infrastructure, culture and, in general, on goods of collective interest. On all this we expect a clear and decisive change in the law of stability, because, if it is true that political stability is a value, which reassures the markets and makes our country more attractive, it is equally true that stability cannot be achieved at the cost of immobilism. The favorable vote that Civic Choice will give to this Report is meant to mean this: a taking of action of what has been done and a strong solicitation to the Government to speed up its action a turning point in the sign of reforms. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u75	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u76	Mr President, my Group has tabled motion for a resolution No 1, which refers to the assessment that can be made of the report presented to Parliament, which essentially presents many shortcomings and shortcomings in what is the economic recovery impact of our country. In this Report, of course, the objectives and balances of public finance are highlighted which, even if they may partially give an apparent line of improvement of the economic system and of what is the performance of our country, surely, on our part, cannot be considered sufficiently positive or in any case have that strength that our country needs at this time for the resumption of growth. Lega Nord e Autonomie has tabled a motion for a resolution in which it carries out the request for commitment to the Government first of all to specify the modalities and financial cover on which will be foreseen the complete abolition of the IMU on the first dwelling, not always referring to the increases in taxation or, in any case, to new taxes, but - we hope - to real cuts that have not been seen and realized so far, of which the need instead must be made aware by producing a strong concrete response. Another point on which we ask to commit the Government is that relating to the exact quantification of the criteria on which will then be compensated to the municipalities for the failure to collect the IMU. Let us remember that the municipalities at this moment have difficulty to close their budgets and to approve those that are their actual revenues, because the failure given on the IMU at this moment, having decreed the government the exemption on the first houses, does not give them the possibility to have a concrete and real figure and an amount that allows to close the budgets and in particular to understand concretely what will be returned by this Government for the failure to collect. So it is essential for us to have knowledge of this data and wait for the exact figures relating to compensation for the 2012 IMU. We then ask to verify and declare the revenue that the Government plans to collect in 2013 from the IMU on the properties that are recorded in category Cadastral D, specifying this data in relation to each individual Region. Another important request contained in the motion for a resolution, also made, together with the other rapporteurs, in the Committee on Finance, is a tax relief covering in particular productive buildings, in order to alleviate the tax burden on companies which is now unsustainable. Among other things, we have highlighted the economic and productive situation of these activities, which often have simply a shed, sometimes empty, that produces nothing and that in any case cannot be overtaken by further impositions that sink what little remains of economy in our country. We then ask to consider the need to strengthen the means and the tools in management to the Agency of the territory, in order to encourage the monitoring of the cadastral buildings, in particular in certain Regions where the abusivism is at home (so with a greater control and monitoring of the capillary territory), so that we can have in this way an exact knowledge of how fiscally this Country can derive from the real estate present on the territory, avoiding therefore to increase the imposition on those already acting in a correct and honest way, stacking the property or in any case adapting to the regulations of stacking and tax pressure, and to the detriment instead of those who furbly and always escape taxes on the real estate. Finally, we ask the Government, also given the approval in the Chamber of the measure on efficiency and the extension of incentives for energy saving, to commit to a greater extent the resources deriving from this efficiency and the rationalization of the public administration, to increase the erial funds in favour of the virtuous Municipalities. This is a subject that touches us strongly, because it is unacceptable that there are Municipalities that have always worked correctly, even by taxing citizens more or by removing some services from them in order to arrive at a budget closure without deficit (or, in any case, avoiding gestures that only highlight the difficulty that the Municipalities objectively have to maintain certain services), and instead they are faced with taxing and harassment that are unacceptable. We therefore ask that there be, let me say, respect for those municipalities that have always worked well, with a virtuous system of respect for citizens, the taxes they pay and the system of services. For us, this passage from the motion for a resolution, together with the others I have outlined, is crucial. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u77	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u78	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the positive news that the President-in-Office of the Council read after the last G20 has brought us, or confirmed, certainly gives us another element of reading for the report to Parliament which is being presented to us today. There are timid signs of reversal of trends, both in industrial production and in export production, but we cannot - as we have seen in the adjustment - fail to report a collapse in domestic consumption, a very significant drop in VAT revenues and energy excise duties, which indicate a still profound suffering in the country. Therefore - I say this to the Undersecretary - I believe that more than the imminent economic recovery would be correct to say that the lowest point of the crisis, which began in 2008, has been touched on. We believe that, from this point of view, the social question remains serious and persistent, and therefore we can only positively judge the refinancing of the integration fund by way of derogation for 500 million euros even if there is - and comes from the regions with great force this message - significant resources that will have to be found by this year. Other positive elements have already been mentioned: the further effort to pay public debt, for example. Of this we share the underlying objective: to close this bad page of public finance by 2014. A very small sign in the right direction has also arrived on the soil of exodus: 6,500 individual layoffs that should be solved, but we all know that it is still a long way to reach the definitive solution. Finally, support for the purchase of the first house is also to be considered positively. I don't want to get away from the IMU node, which we'll have the opportunity to analyse in detail when the provision comes to the Senate. I think we need to be honest with ourselves and the country here, Undersecretary Baretta. More and better could be done in the main street of fairness. Not to exempt only about 73,000 so-called luxury properties is a decision that runs counter to the current crisis and, above all, prevents the allocation of important resources for growth and to alleviate the social effects of the crisis. While we believe that it was right to finally exempt agricultural land and rural buildings from the unique real estate tax. The document presented by the Government refers to the redesign of real estate taxation to subsequent measures. However, we would like to take this opportunity to reiterate to the Government some of our suggestions. Undersecretary Baretta, we do so without blackmail, without proclamations, but with the strength and determination of a great popular force of the reformist left. Firstly, there is the issue of the reform of the land register: we cannot wait five years to define this problem. Secondly, the service tax cannot be a camouflaged IMU and therefore a proper balance must be found between the consideration for the services rendered and the progressive capital component of the real estate. For us - we will never tire of repeating it - in this economic phase those who have more must give more. Last, but not least, the final objective must be to leave the proceeds of the service tax totally to the municipalities in the perspective of the "voto," I see, pay and then vote again, evaluating the actions of the directors. The current model based on the municipal solidarity fund has limits, risks increasing tensions between the territories and not resolving problems. I would like to conclude by asking you, Mr Undersecretary, to keep a close eye on the loss of revenue resulting from the exemption of unsold property from real estate companies, because we believe that the one indicated in the newspapers and that we have read is largely underestimated. If so, the budgets of many municipalities are at risk, especially in large cities. Finally, I would like to stress the enormous difficulties facing municipalities and provinces in drawing up realistic and credible forecast budgets. Municipalities and Provinces, Mr. Undersecretary, which can be a formidable ally of the Government in the difficult and complex strategy of recovery and must not be lived by some as a kind of ball to the foot. The mayors and their citizens expect signs of a reversal of trend in the relationship between the central state and local self-government, beginning, in the stability document, with the relaxation of the Stability Pact for Municipalities. Mr. Undersecretary, we will continue to have loyal support from you. We expect, however, more courage in defending the principles of social equity and territorial cohesion, in a renewed alliance between the state and local virtuous authorities. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Panizza]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u79	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u80	I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Azzollini, whether he intends to reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u81	Mr President, the problems that I have already highlighted in the report have been further raised during the debate. It is clear, however, that the issues raised do not have their proper place in the adoption of a motion for a resolution and the report. This is a programme building. In the update note to the DEF, during the budgetary session, these problems will be debated, and solutions will be sought for them. Therefore, I think it is only appropriate to reply by asking for the report to be approved today for the attention of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u82	I note that three motions for resolutions have been tabled: No 1, signed by Senators Bitonci and others, No 2, signed by Senator Lezzi and others, and No 3, signed by Senators Zanda, Schifani, Fravezzi, Susta and Ferrara Mario. I would ask the representative of the Government, Mr Baretta, to indicate which of the motions for resolutions he intends to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u83	Mr President, first of all, for obvious reasons of time and depth, I would like to refer some substantive comments on the chapters on the IMU and the content issues to the forthcoming debate by the Commissions and the House on the substantive measure. I shall therefore confine myself to two comments on the part relating to the subject under discussion today. There is no doubt that the document presented by the Government bears witness to the complexity of the situation. We don't deny it. Indeed, the comments made in this debate are very useful and interesting. On the one hand, there is an economic situation and the public accounts are still uncertain and fragile, likely to pose risks which are not yet averted. The worsening debt, for the many reasons that have been indicated, is proof of this, but at the same time I stress the effort we are making to remain within the 3% constraints that have allowed us to get out of the infringement procedure. On the other hand, there are trends in improving the situation which are likely to have new potential. It is precisely in this bifurcation between the risks of a fragile economic situation and the potential that can be seen, even if they are still fragile, that the framework of economic policy choices that the Government must make is inserted. Moreover, it has been mentioned by the Senators who have spoken and by President Azzollini himself that the data available - on the one hand the ISTAT data of yesterday and, on the other hand, the Confindustria data of today - are exactly the testimony of this complexity and ambivalence. There is no doubt that in the choices that the government has to make we need to focus two aspects. First, the glimpse of 2013 in front of which - it is useless to deny it - there are very important public finance commitments. I must say, President Azzollini, that his emphasis on the complexity of the coverage does not escape the Government, which is the first protagonist of the difficulty to make the public finance framework of the last few days and weeks. Above all, I would like your attention to the risks of a complex situation on cover to be present to all my fellow senators during the debate we have to make on the deadlines that lie ahead of us from here to December. On the other hand, there are also the most in-depth choices concerning 2014 and beyond that they are inherent to the law of stability that will be presented on 15 October: choices on which on the one hand you will definitely have to pay attention to local finance. First, my colleague, Senator of the League, mentioned this: a special attention to the efforts that local authorities have made in recent years will certainly have to be addressed by the Government in the next law of stability. I therefore believe that this should be considered as a matter of common sharing from now on. On the other hand, surely that platform which the social partners have presented, despite the complexity it manifests, must be taken into account. With these two elements we must build a law of stability - Senator Lanzillotta has clearly reasoned on some of these things - which must impress that turning point towards recovery. From this point of view (and this is the second and last consideration I want to make) there is no doubt that the pivot of this first phase was that of public administration payments. You can see the effects. If there are delays, we are in a collegiality of government to deal with them; but there is no doubt that having decided an allocation of 40 billion euros plus 7 (trends to 10), and for this year 27.2 is a very concrete signal, which is already in place. We can discuss delays, but it must be felt that this dynamic is already moving and is rapidly descending from the centre to the periphery. However, I must say - and I say this very clearly - that President Azzollini has done well to raise the question of improving the relationship between this important entity of public finance management and the strategic objectives that await us, especially with regard to fiscal compact. There is no doubt that, as you can already see, the maneuver puts, on the one hand, emission, but on the other hand also new possibilities of revenue that, if we have now covered to meet immediate needs, in perspective can constitute a refreshment of the same public finance. In this non-solving balance you can see a first hint of reflection and response to the question to which you, President Azzollini, referred. In conclusion, Mr President, I have to say that a response to all these issues will come in a few days' time, when, by the 20th of this month, the Update Note on the Economic and Financial Document will be handed over, which, as they know, is the prerequisite for a debate on the substantive choices that we will make in the Stability Act. In this spirit, and having listened to the debate, the Government gives a favourable opinion on the motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senators Zanda and Schifani and other Senators, while instead expressing a non-acceptance opinion on motions for resolutions No 1, tabled by Senator Bitonci and others, and No 2, tabled by Senators Lezzi and Bulgarelli and other Senators. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u84	Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for a resolution No 3, the 30-minute deadline for tabling any amendments to it is now in force. Explanations of vote will take place tomorrow morning. I shall therefore refer the document back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u87	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in this House, just like now, I intervened to denounce a very serious fact: the death of a young doctor. Tonight I speak instead because despite the drama of a road accident that has seen protagonists two findanzatini in the municipality of Cazzano Sant'Andrea, some evenings ago things went differently, fortunately in a different way. Perhaps the high speed, perhaps the loss of control of the car, is in fact, Mr President, that the mechanical vehicle leaves the street, violently bangs against a reinforced concrete wall and the car begins to catch fire. When the overturned car was already on fire, they arrive at the site of the incident Jacopo, 18 years old, and immediately after Nicola, 20 years old. Their paths have probably crossed for a divine design. The instinct, the desire to save boys like them: they first dragged Stefania and then Giordano out of the cockpit, unconscious and unable to save themselves. Carabinieri, firemen and ambulances arrived quickly; they went to the scene of the accident, but the car was completely charred. Right away the two boys were called heroes, and maybe they really are. The most appropriate comment came from the father of the boy who was driving the car: they will have my gratitude forever, without them and their intervention now we would have two funerals. By closing, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are used to hearing the kids belittle; we call them squeamish, squeamish, dollish, indifferent. A mild evening at the end of the summer, interrupted by a terrible bang, has instead highlighted the good guys, those we do not expect and who do not have the honor of the news. These good boys are darkened by clichés, too many clichés. These guys risked their lives to save the lives of two guys like them. They've done what each of us should do, and too many times it's not done. The parents, our community and my parliamentary group are grateful to you for the courage you have put at the disposal of two young people like you, and this is heartening to all: a gesture of absolute altruism that comforts everyone in the face of so much selfishness and indifference that distinguish today's society. Gestures like yours infuse a new hope for a better society. Thank you Jacopo, thank you Nicola and good wishes to the two boys, in the hope that they will heal soon. They will soon be guests of the Senate and we will thank them directly through the Presidency. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u90	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, my speech today is in the direction of my mandate. So, as spokesperson, I'll do that. Here it is: "Gentle Senator Sara, who knows if she will read in the Senate what I think and write, but also some million Italians. I'm gonna keep from swearing, and then they're gonna trouble you! I saw yesterday that you again caught a senator voting for someone who wasn't there... last time... but how many are there of pianists? And it was also the third time you caught her doing the dirty voting for another... but after three times shouldn't you take the red card and the expulsion? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] But what punishment do they give him? To me it seems that those who vote for someone who isn't there, what there is doesn't lose the money of the day, or down there. Like he's at work... Then tell him that if I stamp my colleague's card at my factory clock, they'll give me a deck like this, they'll suspend me from work, and they'll fine me a lot. And they want to change the Constitution, these senators here! And then... I know, that day that one misses the accusation that he's having a coke party at the hotel with two cheerful ladies and one in a while he's gonna lose his mind... he might say it wasn't him, because he was in the Chamber voting... and he has proof of his vote... [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And if maybe a senator... let's say they accuse him that that day he gave a bribe of five million euros to bribe a colleague who does him a favor... Well, he can say that noooo, because he was voting. It can't be done, it's time to end it, who votes for another must be pushed away and fined great!!! There were people sitting in those chairs like De Gasperi, Iotti, Moro and Tina Anselmi. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Even someone with ideas other than mine, but honest people, they didn't vote for those who weren't there! Senator, I wonder if you'll ever have the courage to read these words of mine in this House, but if you do, tell him that the Italians are with the pieces in their backs... and I try not to swear... The senator is one who must set an example, one who must teach and spread honesty, no one who cheats!!! I'm glad you put them on the net. Senatri, since they don't do anything to him like Mozart, do a good thing, put a pretty big shoe next to you, 44 that's my foot number, and next time you're scared... If they don't do anything to them, they won't do anything to you, that all in all, you do something that a very honorable citizen has asked you for. And I'm telling myself... but if Pertini were still there... ooooh if Pertini was there... the escarpment would throw it at him!♪ It's all right ♪ ♪ It's all right ♪ ♪ It's all right ♪ ♪ It's all right ♪ ♪ It's all right ♪ [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u93	ROMANI Maurizio (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw the House's attention to two apparently distant episodes, but which have one point in common: violence against women. The first is the stabbing of a fellow doctor, Dr. Paola Labriola, by a sick man. I can't help but feel sorry for it, both as a person and as a colleague. In this case it is yet another violence against a woman by an attacker with an altered conscience. This can happen to anyone, but a woman is more exposed, as her attacker may seem an easier prey. However, we must dwell on the fact that in psychiatry violence is very rare, when compared with the violent acts of the so-called normal people: we do not fall into trivialization, which stimulates many popular fantasies, in search of scapegoats to overcome the weight of an increasingly hostile social world. Let us remember, however, that sudden violence is difficult to manage, but also that the presence of a colleague would be sufficient to discourage the malicious. Today this simple precaution is difficult to put into practice, due to the state of abandonment in which the national health system and, in particular, the mental health departments are placed. Solving the problem does not mean putting in place public policy measures, but implementing just and useful health policies. Therefore, this death must be included in the political and moral responsibility of those who have allowed such delicate care systems, such as those related to mental health and addiction, to be increasingly weakened by restrictions on means, personnel and financial. It is therefore essential at this moment to unblock the turnover which has paralysed these services. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A second example of violence against women is the one that has been perpetrated these days: I am referring to the news that a colleague of ours has not been able to use a service due by law, such as the prescription of the so-called pill of the next day, at the clinic in Montecitorio. For the simple reason that the doctor said no for reasons of conscience and also the doctor of the next shift was conscientious objector, like all the others: they are medical colleagues who work in the House of Deputies. We recall that on 11 June 2013, the Chamber of Deputies approved seven motions, presented by the various parliamentary groups, in which the Government was invited to give full application to Law No. 194 of 1978. I myself have tabled a bill, which I hope will be supported by the various parliamentary groups, to ensure that this service is provided in every public hospital and in every accredited private facility. It is not conceivable that this is not guaranteed because all doctors of the service are objectors: if the objection is a right, it cannot be abused, especially if it is done for reasons of internal career, more than religious or ideological conviction. Law No. 194 is increasingly opposed, to the detriment of women's rights. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Albano and Padua.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u94	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-100.ana.u95	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 12 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.04 p.m.
