ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr BERGER, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.04).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u4	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 27 and 28 June 2013" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Enrico Letta.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with deep regret and deep emotion that I begin this speech in this House on Europe, on the next European Council, obviously recalling the figure of one of the greatest Europeans that Europe and our country have had, namely the last Italian President of the European Parliament: your colleague, Senator Emilio Colombo. [[The President stands up and with you the entire Assembly and the members of the Government. Live and prolonged applause.]] Only a little over forty-eight hours now divide us from the European Council on 27 and 28 June. In the last fifty days we have talked about this on a number of occasions, in this House and in the public debate. We have always done so, even with different accents and styles, in the name of a shared awareness: what awaits us will be a hard confrontation, an important confrontation, will be a political confrontation. Policies want and must therefore be my communications here in the Senate, as a politician will be the intervention of which I will be brought into the European Council room. Once again, I will emphasise the drama of the work that is not there, the more than 15 million young people without an occupation, a prospect, an opportunity for achievement, on Europe which either gives concrete and immediate answers to epochal problems such as those we live in or slowly dies. A Europe that is struggling to emerge from the recession, in which the level of public investment has collapsed in recent years and the bank credit tap has contracted drastically in some Member States, including Italy. A Europe that fails to catch up on speed and in which the shadows of economic and monetary union have not yet been completely swept away. After all, in the last few days, the news from Karlsruhe, the seat of the Constitutional Court of the German Republic, and, from Athens, the news of the sudden closure of Greek state television: these two news were enough, from two cities so distant from each other in Europe to give the signal and make us understand that the crisis, no, is not over yet, to bring back tension on the markets and raise interest rates on our debt. We know that time is running out, then. We know that the targets set must be achieved as soon as possible. We know that we must counter the insidious trend towards inertia, the stubborn defence of rigid approaches, the protection of national prerogatives and national selfishness. We know that if Europe stops, as it is, it is lost. However, from this awareness we can start again at the next European Council. At the first point on the agenda there will be, as you know, the fight against youth unemployment. There will then be financing for businesses and the real economy; structural reforms and banking union will be dealt with. On all these issues, the resolution adopted by Parliament, by this Parliament, on 21 May, guided the preparatory and negotiation action that the Government has carried out over the last few weeks. So let us start with youth employment. It is a dramatic reality, we know it very well: precarious, unequal protection, inactivity. On everything, this very high rate of youth unemployment, which in Italy now affects 40% of young people between 15 and 24 years of age. It is an Italian drama, but it is also a European, collective and generational drama. Today one in four young people in Europe is unemployed. In some Member States the threshold is now above 50%, an unprecedented level in the post-war period. That is why, from the very first moments of the government's life, we have done everything possible to ensure that this issue becomes central to the agenda of the next European Council. It is a political choice straight away. I would like to say: it is an identity political choice. Let's look back for a moment. In the first phase of the crisis, in these five years, choices have been made that have aimed primarily to protect, even rightly (we have all done them together), the current work and certainly not the future work, the work that was there, the work that was lost. That was the first requirement to which we have all referred together. I am thinking of the priority we have given to the protection of workers already included in the labour market, with the integration fund and social shock absorbers. At the same time, I am thinking of the reform of pensions: it was also necessary, of course, but it has led to a considerable lengthening of working life. Therefore, young people have remained outside, for one trend and the other trend, have not been the focus of attention of our welfare policies. Today we can no longer ignore these imbalances. It is not only the quantitative dimension of youth unemployment that worries: it is the risk that it will become structural and literally burn a valuable and perhaps unrepeatable human capital. Eurofound estimated that the cost of youth unemployment in Europe, in terms of lost income and higher social assistance costs, is around EUR 153 billion per year: an unparalleled dissipation. As if that were not enough, there is a less visible price, but more sneaky and serious to pay. It is the cost of creating a betrayed generation, and thus wounded. A generation marked by deep scars. The scars on the community left by frustration, resentment and resignation are the most difficult to erase, and it is on them that populism and anti-politics, hostility towards public institutions and towards Europe, xenophobia and the rejection of integration are spread. That is why we could not accept that the next European Council should stop at routine decisions, dealing only with procedures, governance, technicalities, perhaps even important, but which do not speak at the heart of European citizens, I wanted with all the strength that Italy not only posed a political problem, on behalf of the Italian Parliament that this had asked me to do, but also contributed with concrete ideas. We wrote to the President of the European Council, Mr Van Rompuy, on 24 May, sending Italian proposals for a European agenda for action against youth unemployment. As you know, at least one first goal has been achieved: that of youth work, of work for young people, is now a cornerstone of the new European agenda. It is an important political achievement. Making youth employment a central point of debate in the Council also means giving a new direction to European choices in a pragmatic way, avoiding the simplistic and inconclusive confrontation that has often accompanied the European debate. We wanted to send a message about the old Continent's social soul. Six months ago, public finances, budget cuts, conditionality for Member States' assistance programmes were discussed. All important issues. Today, however, we will also discuss vocational training, social investment in human capital, funding for innovative enterprises created by young people. The Italian Government has worked to ensure that in all European fora there is awareness that promoting employment for young people requires greater integration between tax policies and labour policies. This is the point of the meeting that we organised and hosted in Rome on 14 June last, with the Ministers of Finance and the work of the four largest states in the euro area: France, Germany, Spain and Italy. This format has no precedent in European dynamics: Ministers of Finance and Labour together. It means that from the centrality of Ecofin, in Europe we need to move more and more to the centrality of people. Rome, for one day, was the capital of the fight against youth unemployment in Europe. Now the capital must become itinerant: Brussels on Thursday and Friday and then, on 3 July, Berlin, with a meeting also dedicated to work for young people. Italy wants to be in the front row. He has the will and he also has the convenience. That is why tomorrow the Council of Ministers will approve certain measures to improve the functioning of the labour market, increase employment, especially youth employment, and support families in difficulty. These are measures - and I want to make this very clear - which will be independent of what will happen at the European Council tomorrow: they will be our own, Italian choices, which are clearly in line with what is to be discussed in Brussels. With this initiative of ours, I will firmly call for the Union not to abandon the Member States to itself, but to support and strengthen their action, with concrete, visible and effective measures in place. This is not the first time that the European Council has dealt with these issues: it has already done so in March 2005 with a Youth Pact, but it has had little follow-up; it has done so on several occasions in the past months with declarations of value, particularly political ones. Now, we call for immediate decisions to return the sense of urgency, European and national operational instruments, resources above all, short time for action to get the maximum impact right away. How can these commitments be translated? Firstly, by ensuring, at European level, that the Youth Guarantee model, approved by the European Council in April, which provides that within four months each young graduate receives a quality job, study or apprenticeship offer in Europe, becomes the benchmark for all Member States. This scheme has worked well in Austria and Finland: implementing it in Italy will result in a revolution in our system of policies of activation and orientation to work. This change is all the easier and more effective if it is implemented within a certain European framework. That is why, in the coming months, even in the light of what will be decided in Brussels, we will make a second package of interventions, precisely to implement the Youth Guarantee and improve employment services. Europe will have to mobilise all available resources. We therefore call for a maximum acceleration of the launch of the European Youth Employment Initiative, a fund established last February for the period 2014-2020, so that the first projects can already be financed from 1 January 2014. However, we will ask that the use of this fund be concentrated in the first two years, and no longer spread out in seven. Six billion euros of the guarantee means about 1.360 euros available to each of the potential beneficiaries among inactive young people. This is something, but of course it is not enough: that is why we are asking for a refinancing and a strengthening of this measure for the following years. The other source of support for youth initiatives is, as you know, the Structural Funds, from which will come around €55 billion to Italy over the next seven years. We call for the promotion of work for young people to be given priority in the new programming, just as we believe it is important to use the European Social Fund to finance incentives to recruit young people, including by reducing the tax wedge, which remains our top priority. We also want the European Union to use in a targeted way one of its best cards, so far little and badly used: the European Investment Bank. We call for the EIB to increase lending to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are at the heart of our productive fabric (currently worth about EUR 13 billion). Specific instruments should be developed to support youth employment and public investment in vocational training and education, including in coordination with national financial institutions, such as the Deposit and Loan Fund. In addition, we call for progress on measures to facilitate the geographical mobility of workers: the European mobility of young people is in fact in fact, but we are still far from a single labour market. In all these areas, the social partners can make a decisive contribution. I had the opportunity to meet the Italian trade unions yesterday morning, I will meet the European trade unions on Thursday morning in Brussels and - important news - given the importance of this issue, the President of the European Council, Mr Van Rumpuy, wanted to invite the social partners, at European level, who will be present, to speak, to put their position at the first stage of the debate at the next European Council. This will be a fact, in our opinion, certainly important and innovative compared to all these issues. On the other hand, we must frankly reiterate that, if Europe does not resume a path of growth, none of the timely decisions that we can take will lead to a real breakthrough. The second item on the Council's agenda comes into play on this: the monitoring of progress made in implementing the Growth and Employment Pact, adopted in June 2012, mainly on the initiative of the Government chaired by Mario Monti. An exact year later, the European budget for those choices is light and shadow. Important progress has been made in the area of the single market, but a good number of measures are still blocked, although the deadline for December 2012 has now expired for a few months. In other areas, from energy to the European research area, much remains to be done. The central aspect of the Pact is, however, the emphasis on the use of the European Investment Bank as a lever to share productive investment. To this end, the capital increase of the EIB itself was decided, which was successfully completed in early 2013. Under the scheme, the capital increase will increase EIB loans in the years 2013-2015 by 60 billion, thus mobilising more than 120 billion new investments across Europe. From our point of view, the debate on the EIB's investment policy will therefore be one of the hubs of the European Council. It can play a key role in catalysing resources for long-term investments; above all, it is the key potential of action to reactivate credit for the real economy and to counter the fragmentation of financial markets. Moreover, today, in Europe, the credit conditions for companies differ considerably from State to State, because they reflect not only the credit ratings of individual companies, but also their geographical location. It is a situation that penalises Italian companies and those of other Member States. We will therefore fight for a stronger and stronger role of the European Investment Bank in supporting the real economy and small and medium-sized enterprises, which need more credit for investment. More generally, progress on growth is linked to the ability to keep the course of structural reforms. The European Council will address as a third point the examination of the European Commission's recommendations to the Member States, bringing to the conclusion of the 2013 European Semester. It is not just a procedural step: the European Semester is positive because it helps to coordinate national agendas for reforms. We must help consolidate this exercise. We take this very seriously and, as I have said several times, we interpret the six recommendations that the Commission has made to us - in parallel with the successful closure of the excessive deficit procedure - as the basis for our government action. To be clear, we have already begun to do so with the measures taken in recent weeks: I am thinking of the rules for speeding up civil justice; I am thinking of the package of measures on infrastructure; I am thinking of the simplifications, of the interventions on credit contained in the decreto, and which meet the Commission's recommendations on a timely basis. Similarly, the draft legislation on simplifications and the decree-law on youth employment, which we will approve tomorrow, respond to demands from the European Union itself. We must then proceed with greater attention and systematic implementation of the European directives. That is why I am pleased that the Senate has already scheduled for next week the examination in the Chamber of European law 2013, which is currently under consideration by the European Union's Political Commission. I hope that the process of approving this draft law, which contains the necessary rules for the transposition of directives from 2011 to 2013, can be quickly closed and that the Government, coordinated by Minister Moavero on this subject, is doing a great deal of work, will avoid the maximum number of infringement procedures. I now come to the banking union, and more generally to the reform of the governance of Economic and Monetary Union: the fourth point on the Council's agenda. In this field, especially on the banking union, the path is rough and still uphill; the first steps are being made with difficulty: after the agreement on the single banking supervision mechanism and the guidelines for the direct recapitalisation of banks by the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), the Ecofin extraordinary tomorrow will try to close an agreement on the directive on the orderly resolution of bank crises and, cascade, on the directive on the guarantee, in favour of savers, bank deposits. On these issues, Italy is committed to rejecting the objections of those who give the impression that they do not really want to progress, but also to offer solutions to mediate between interests difficult to compose. One thing, however, is certain: in Brussels, on behalf of the Italian Government, we will fight for the timetable decided by the December European Council to complete the banking union in no way to be called into question, and we will do everything possible to ensure that there is as soon as possible a proposal from the Commission for a common mechanism for the resolution of bank crises and that it is adopted within the current mandate of the European Parliament. All this will form the basis for the great political battle for Europe that we will begin from autumn, in preparation for the unique opportunity that Italy will be presenting in 2014: the Italian Presidency of the European Union in the second half of 2014 will be able to represent, as the resolution presented here indicates, the opportunity to place institutional issues and the political dimension at the heart of the action of the Union and the Member States. The opportunity is unique to start, precisely from Italy, the construction of the United States of Europe, high and inescapable ideality for the present generations, only compass and only horizon of the European politics of a country like ours. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council will take important decisions on enlargement. We will welcome Croatia's entry as a Member State from 1 July; we will confirm Latvia's entry into Economic and Monetary Union from 1 January 2014 (from 27 to 28 countries in the first case and from 17 to 18 countries in the second case). We will decide on the Commission's proposal to open negotiations for Serbia's accession, and we hope that a date will be set for the start of the negotiations. Croatia, Latvia, Serbia: three different cases of approaching the united Europe and everything it historically represents; three experiences to remind us that the European Union was and remains a success story. The crisis and the many, too many, mistakes made in the last decade tend to make us forget it, lead us to focus our attention and our moods on everything that does not work: austerity, procedural slowness, the inability to decide for the best. It is true, of course, but Europe cannot be just that. Only together, within the Union, can we achieve results that otherwise, on our own, we could not even design. On the point, allow me to hook up to the latest experience at the G8. There we have seen what Europe really can do when it is no longer on the dock, but a united voice at the global table. There, the historic decision has been taken to start negotiations for a free trade agreement with the United States: it is an agreement that can open up new economic prospects, increasing European GDP by 0.5% per year, and which has a significant geopolitical significance. According to all studies, Italy is the country that will have the most advantages, precisely for the type of open economy that we have. We hope that this agreement can be concluded under the Italian Presidency. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now up to us, representatives of the Italian people, here, and delegates from the peoples of Europe, Thursday and Friday in Brussels: we can and must decide to build something stronger and more solid, and not to fill an emergency. We will try to seize this opportunity by avoiding any downward solution. Our commitment, my commitment, is to transfer only one urgency to European partners: finally to give real, concrete and immediately verifiable answers to the problems of the Europe of peoples, and the first problem today is the work that is not for millions and millions of girls and boys. We have an obligation to them to indicate a course and to return, finally, a hope. [[Applause from the PD, PDL, SCPI and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u6	I say that any motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u7	Madam President, let me begin by associating myself with the words of the President-in-Office of the Council in the memory of a great Europeanist, a great colleague, who presided over the first sitting of this legislature, here in the Senate, and also the Foreign Commission, reminding us of his dream: that of the United States of Europe. Emilio Colombo was a great protagonist of Italian and European public life, and I believe that our Parliament will have the opportunity to remember him as he deserves. Italy has done its part: the Italian citizens have done it first of all with the sacrifices that have been incurred in recent months; it has done it on the merits of the Monti Government - it seems right to remember it, because it has been a common fruit among the political forces - that today allows us to look more serenity to our future. The exit from the excessive deficit procedure opened against us in January 2010 allows us today to look at our future with greater room for manoeuvre. None of us come from the moon and we must all be aware of the past responsibilities and the six recommendations that the European Commission has made to us. It is not enough, Senators, to reform Article 81 of the Constitution. We must insist - as the President-in-Office said - also and above all on the identification of the dry branches of public expenditure. We must proceed in a relentless manner with the spending review initiated with the Monti Government, and I believe that at this point a great responsibility in this regard is precisely the Minister of the Economy, whom we greet here: Minister Saccomanni. At this point, today, without repeating the many things outlined by the President of the Council on which I am and we agree, I think that we must go to the heart of the problems. Here, today, Europe's responsibility comes into play, which cannot be limited to controlling our parameters in an accountantistic way by imposing rigour on us. As our situation (and I am not referring only to Italy) shows, we can die of only rigour and austerity. President Letta spoke of a confrontation that will take place in Brussels, and he called it a tough confrontation, a confrontation on a political basis. I think that's the way it is. Our country must prepare itself for a tough confrontation, a political confrontation. American experience must lead us to systemic reflections. For example, the proposal to assess compliance with the Stability Pact every three years should not be dropped, rather than every year, on average, because at certain times the deficit may be necessary. Moreover, ISTAT data for the first three months of this year on Italian exports show us that the economic weakness is widening to the whole euro area, including Germany, inflecting our exports, the contagion is widening also to other countries. Until yesterday, perhaps, there was the illusion of some European country, particularly Germany, that the crisis could be limited to some Mediterranean countries. Unfortunately, the facts lead us to say that this is not the case, that it is an illusion in which the German colleagues themselves have been lulled. We support the Government's proposals on employment, particularly youth employment, from A to Z, but there will be no solution to the problem without the ability to dissolve other nodes. The Italian requests to exclude a number of structural investments from the deficit calculation have not yet had the answers they deserved. More can be done on this, perhaps by calculating different percentages of the gross domestic product to be affected. The banking union has taken a step forward on the common supervisory mechanism, but also a side step on the use of the stability mechanism to recapitalise banks and a step back on the common mechanisms for the resolution of banking crises. The Union's leadership - as I say quite clearly - cannot be assumed by a Franco-German director who is based, as the recent joint document shows, on an agreement with the main common denominator of the postponement of reforms: the postponement of internal structural reforms in France against the postponement of the reform of the banking union, which raises some concerns in Germany. We are talking - and the President-in-Office of the Council has done so - about the single labour market, we are talking about mobility. Unfortunately, mobility is already well under way, but for now it is mainly about workers with high levels of education. It is what we call the brain drain, which we do not tire of evoke as an element of weakness of our country system. In an interesting article in "Il Sole 24 Ore" on Sunday, it says: It is necessary to extend this process to workers with lower qualifications. I say, let's be careful about this. It was right for the President of the Council to say, in several of his speeches, that it must be circular mobility, that it must not be a pure flight of human resources for our country. So far, this labour mobility has meant, above all, the movement of Italian workers, as well as Greek workers or other countries in difficulty to countries in Northern Europe and Germany. The fact remains that, precisely for the lower qualifications, for the less skilled workers, worker mobility is a more elegant and politically correct way of calling emigration. Of course, it is a different emigration from the past, because there is European citizenship, there is the Internet, there are low cost flights, but it is always emigration. If the only way to defeat unemployment is emigration, it means that we are really behind the wall. Finally, the Italian Parliament undertakes - as is written in Resolution No 5 by majority, which I have signed - to promote the convening of meetings on the future of Europe, a large parliamentary meeting of representatives of the people who are capable of stimulating ideas, proposals and commitment to the reconstruction of political Europe. Tomorrow's initiative will also be successful if governments know in the next few hours, i.e. today, to address the concrete issues on the table positively, starting with the delicate negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework of the European Union. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it quite clear that I do not want us to turn the assisi desired into yet another Euroretoric exhibition: Euroretoricism, today, is the true re-constitute for the anti-European populist movements that multiply on the Continent. It is a difficult undertaking, and I believe that, regardless of any other consideration, the converging support of different political forces, including alternatives, which are registered around the Government, finds its main motivation in the harshness and difficulty of this moment. This is no time for Italy to face alone outside the European framework. If Europe does not change step, if it does not at this moment find the ability to share common destiny, nothing will be possible for our country. Those who, like me and so many others in this House, have always cultivated the dream of Europeanism cannot rely solely on acts of faith. The acts of courage must have the capacity to rely on concrete and meaningful actions. I think we should wish the President-in-Office good luck knowing that in this case all of Italy is behind him. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Chiti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u9	Mr President, I too would like to begin by acknowledging the words of the President-in-Office of the Council concerning the life-senator Emilio Colombo, who died yesterday. I too had the opportunity to have with him, in the years of the Prodi Government and then in the latter, frequent relations and I appreciated his sense of institutions, his simplicity in relations with people, his commitment to the great values of our Constitution. In the short time available to me, I would like to highlight two aspects of your information, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in relation to the next European Council, by telling you immediately that I agree with your communication. I share the seriousness of your approach, the points mentioned, the proposals and the initiatives that our Government wants to take forward. I would like above all to draw attention to two issues: the first is what our Government has insisted on and which has been able to put firmly on the agenda of this European Council. I am referring to the unemployment emergency, especially the youth crisis. There are impressive figures, and you mentioned them. Eurostat says that there are over 26 million unemployed in Europe - I repeat: 26 million unemployed - and the numbers of youth unemployment are very high: over 23% at European level, and 40.1% in Italy. These are Eurostat data, which show that we must promote urgent measures, make a change of pace and a change of direction. A turning point, of course, linked to a close relationship between the work plan, the employment plan and the development plan. In fact, no measures to support employment, including youth employment, no training measures or fiscal incentives for companies taking on permanent employment will be effective if development is not restarted. Any measure will remain completely abstract. So, we need to promote this breakthrough. I agree with what President Casini has just said: one thing is the revision of public expenditure, which we must achieve, and one thing is the rigour and efficiency, which we must impose on ourselves, but austerity alone is dying. If there is only austerity - as you can see - it affects the popular classes, the weakest classes, the hope of young people in the future. And if there is a definitive break between the hope of the younger generations and the prospect of the European Union as a great supranational democracy, we will all retreat, and not a little. Besides that, austerity alone does not even heal the state budget. We are presenting ourselves to this European Council with two elements of strength, as well as with the reason for the facts: the first is that of Italy's exit from the excessive deficit procedure, due to various governments and the commitment of the Monti Government. This is a great result that we have also paid with great sacrifices, but important and just. The other element concerns the measures that your Government will take tomorrow for youth employment. The fact that we are taking measures and using the resources we have - and not the resources we would like - by finalising them on these issues gives credibility to this commitment. I would like to conclude on this point by recalling, however, in addition to what you have mentioned, two other measures: one European and the other Italian. I believe, Mr President, that, in addition to the measures that have been indicated, we must also raise the issue of the revision of the European Stability Pact. It is clear that if some productive investments, for innovation, for research, for training and for the modernisation of infrastructure are not excluded from the limits of the Stability Pact, the breakthrough will lose much of its effectiveness. However, I would also like to remind the Government that measures must be taken to amend the Internal Stability Pact. You are right when you say - and the call you have made is a serious matter - that we have no resources and, on the other hand, we do not get to spend 60% of European resources. I think when we get to 100% we'll be more credible. Some of these resources are not used because there are no serious, effective and expendable projects, but others are not because municipalities and regions are unable to provide co-financing. On this we must be credible and consistent: we must ensure that the municipalities and regions with administrative surpluses are rewarded. If any of these institutions has a surplus of administration and can spend part of it for these purposes, then virtue works, otherwise it becomes an indistinct night when everyone is in the same condition, and rewards inability and inefficiency. I think we must insist on this. There is one last point I want to touch. I very much appreciated a passage from your communication to the House, which you reiterated today and which is also present in the majority resolution: already today (this means planning in time, but seriously) a commitment is expected to characterize the next Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, from July to December 2014. This is a strong commitment on the subject of EU reforms and political governance, to develop the measures that can also be decided at this European Council. I think it is important for Parliaments to be present on the future of Europe, as set out in the majority resolution, and I think it is very important for Italy to show its willingness to strongly characterize its commitment in those six months to take concrete steps towards the construction of a great supranational democracy. This is a constituent commitment. This emphasis is not separated from the issues we are dealing with. I am convinced that here in Parliament and in the country we are in agreement, probably in many, when we discuss the causes of the crisis and the emergency of employment; but if we then say what it is politically and what we have to do, there the roads can differ. Some people believe that it depends on the fact that Europe is too cumbersome and that if we were less within Europe or if, even, we came out of Europe - as has been repeated these days - there would be an extraordinary destiny because the State would take back the fate of our country. It's not like that for us. For us, at the political level, there is too little Europe; there is an intergovernmental method that has returned to pressure and conditioning, to renationalize European competences, so much so that in matters such as foreign and security policy - see the case of Turkey and Syria - Europe presents itself in a divided and flexible way. We need to build a great supranational democracy, and I believe that this is a commitment that will strongly characterize the semester in which we will lead the European Council. For my part too, Mr President, good luck with the European Council. [[Applause from the PD, SCP, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) groups - PSIe PdL]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u10	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u11	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, our Group is also moved by the memory of Emilio Colombo, a great Italian, a great European, who has left us, in the efforts of his last volume, "For Italy, for Europe," not only a testimony, but also a book full of indications, of which I hope this House will be able to take advantage as soon as possible. As for the communications which the President-in-Office of the Council has made, we see a hope: the hope that Thursday and Friday will actually ring in Europe the bells (even the fanfare) of a great and indispensable agreement to combat youth unemployment. But in our minds there is also the concern to record, on Thursday and Friday, yet another loss of national sovereignty without it being compensated by Community mechanisms or, as Mr Chiti said, more effective intergovernmental mechanisms. Between this hope and this concern, there is a little the state of mind with which the relationship between our country and Europe, Europe and our country has been posing in recent times. What, ladies and gentlemen, was the real limit of the Treaty on fiscal compact concerning the budgetary policy of the signatory States? And let's forget, if we succeed, the dispute between the opposite typhoseries about how many responsibilities Berluscon-Tremontism had to sign it and the montism to let us approve it. The truth is that the Treaty considerably increased the level of discipline on national budgets and reduced the margins of discretion of the countries on the so-called European periphery. Senator Casini evoked Mediterranean Europe. Today there is a very unbalanced Europe between a northern centre of gravity and the condition of the Mediterranean countries. The real limit is that the Treaty did not provide effective means of compensating for the lack of flexibility which took place with the accession to the Treaty. This would have exposed the countries of the periphery to constantly, continuously negotiate concessions (and I say this in quotes) with the European authorities. I put these quotation marks because Europe is a construction of the second democratic post-war; it is a construction in which there are rights that are obtained, and not rights that are granted, as in the post-Napoleonic restoration of 1814. From this point of view, fellow senators, let us consider the case of the arrears due by our public administration, which was at some point a nightmare of our relationship with Europe. From this point of view there is no doubt that the banking union, as Casini did well to record, has made steps forward, steps backwards and steps sideways. It is either a European construction or, if it is to be only an all-German construction, that the technocrats keep it, that in the history of the idea of Europe can have a useful role of flanking, but cannot claim to empty that primacy of politics that with De Gasperi, with Giscard d'Estaing, with Kohl, with Mitterrand himself played loud and loud at the best moments of this construction. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have outlined in a very detailed way what are the points through which it is desirable for the European summit to be able to relaunch growth and employment. Moreover, for a few days now, the Commission has launched the Almunia reform on aid for business investment. I learned something about this from an article by Adriana Cerretelli on "Il Sole 24 Ore" on Sunday. The Almunia reform traces a kind of new discipline of the distribution of resources between the various regional systems. Almost a new code - we are talking about the Almunia code on "Il Sole 24 Ore" - that serves to bridge the gap between North and South of the European Union. The determination, commitment and seriousness with which the European Commissioner for Industry Antonio Tajani and 13 other colleagues, including a Frenchman and a German, have collaborated in the name of the need, today a priority, to overcome socio-economic emergencies is important. I am referring to what the President-in-Office of the Council called a social Europe, never opposed in its history, and I believe in its future, to the liberal soul of Europe. I do not know how much Italy can benefit from this Almunia code. There was a risk that the A-belt regions would be irremediably stopped. Lombardy and Veneto, colleagues of the League. But we are southerners, southerners, and we have always regarded ours as a great national issue: it is not a question of stopping the North, but of asserting the southern priorities. This morning I was sorry to see how much sloppy some colleagues have referred to a public work of truly European scope: the Bridge on the Strait. As a member of your Government rightly says - I believe the Minister for Infrastructure - this is a work that serves to protect that right to mobility which is also a constitutional right of Sicilians. On Sunday, in addition to this article on "Il Sole 24 Ore" I happened to read a very interesting article on the "Corriere della Sera" in which former Minister Moavero made known a report on the inability of the Italian regional system to spend European funds. From this point of view, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, since we are at a time when regional and European policy meet, we would like more courage, more determination. Institutional policy, if it wants constitutional policy, and economic policy are bound up with the objectives of its government. We cannot entrust 42 professors with the corrections of the nonsense committed in the reform of Title V of the Constitution, regardless of who voted in one way or another. A regional system with 21 regions unable to spend, we absolutely cannot afford it. There is a need for strong constitutional correction. In conclusion, I want to remind here Emilio Colombo, who was President of the Council at the time when the regional order was born, in which the turbid game of localisms began (Reggio Calabria against Catanzaro, Pescara against L'Aquila, Avellino and Benevento against Naples). From this point of view, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, our regionalism had to be legislation and planning and not management. We learn from former Minister Moavero that this management is bad. It is a concern that does not strengthen us in our way of being and loving Europe. [[Applause from the LAG Group]] , PD and SCpI). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Vacciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u12	Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with this speech I would like to draw your attention to a specific aspect of the programme report we are debating today, namely taxation. However, my considerations will not be about merit, but about grammar. On the substance, in fact, it cannot be denied that the proposed document contains proposals and intentions to a large extent acceptable, aimed mainly at simplifying and harmonizing tax systems, and at combating the now endemic phenomenon of tax evasion. There is also the emphasis, perhaps for the first time clearly at European level, on another phenomenon, which in our country is well known and which creates equal damage if not greater than tax evasion: tax avoidance. On the other hand, as confirmed also in a recent conference of the National Association of Official Supplementary and Financial Reservers, held in Rome, the term "tax avoidance" is often unknown in Europe and is replaced by a more diplomatic aggressive tax planning, i.e. aggressive tax planning. On this subject, of course - and I would add unfortunately - our country is at the forefront. Another positive element, that emerges scrolling through the pages of the report, is the sensitivity and the propulsive commitment that Italy - a country often looked with suspicion and perhaps enrolled in the lists of the bad guys in the international arena - demonstrates to have on some of the topics in question. However, as I said, I want to dwell on grammar. From the first pages it is impossible not to notice that this document is the triumph of the conditional - it is written: "should," "may be" - and among those frequently used are the terms "veteto", "reserve", "contrariety". It is also worth noting that these terms are not always associated with the so-called PIGS, but also with countries such as Great Britain, Germany and France. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent work on this subject, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Referring in particular to tax havens, he said: The problem is that on this point and on this issue at European level there is an unsustainable hypocrisy: it is hypocrisy linked to the need to say things (...) and to know that these same things, when they apply, have consequences, that some people do not like (...). Mr President, I ask myself, you and this House: are we sure that this is always hypocrisy? Are we sure that in these countries, whose economy has undeniably always been the driving force for the economy of the whole Europe system, has not the awareness developed that in this Europe some rules are good for someone, but not for everyone, and that that someone is not necessarily one of the countries in greatest difficulty? Is it the awareness that the unification process has begun from what should have been the last step and should have followed a political and fiscal unification before, so as not to create a two-speed Europe or perhaps a three-speed Europe? It is the awareness that harmonisation, a simplification of taxation at supranational level, a decisive contrast at European level to the dynamics of organised crime, which I repeat is the first source of evasion, entails a cost for everyone and that not all of the strong countries are willing to pay for it. Mr President, in June 2013, we are perhaps facing a debate with at least 15 years' delay. It is a debate that would have helped to prepare a much more comfortable cradle for that European Union which was soon to be born and which perhaps would have better compensated for the sacrifices that ours and many other European countries have faced in order to carry out that project of which only now seems to be intuitive. I cannot say whether we are still in time to make up for this delay, but since I have always considered the example as the first source of stimulus for change, I renew to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the invitation I made to you a month ago: Italy is an example. We face with conviction the issues that undermine the credibility of our country - corruption, money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance also in the international field, accounting crimes - and our persuasive action at European level will be incisive and convincing, even towards the most dubious states. We have discussed, during this period, decrees in which all kinds of emergencies have been dealt with, true or induced: perhaps we should devote ourselves also to those that we have neglected in the last twenty years. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u13	Senator Gatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u14	Madam President, Mr Letta, I will speak on the need for instruments and resources to be put in place to tackle effectively the emergence of youth unemployment in Europe. I very much agree with what you have said, Mr President. We are aware that in our country unemployment has several emergency points: adults who have lost their jobs, those who have been fired or women, young and old. However, I think it is time to take specific measures to deal with young people and youth unemployment. We need to take care of it; we need specific interventions, because we risk that, in the deepest crisis of the post-war period, some generations of our country have no contact or connection with the world of work, and this we cannot Let's have it. On 22 April 2013, the European Council issued a series of recommendations on the establishment of Youth Guarantee, recognising that youth unemployment leaves permanent traces, with higher risks of future unemployment, with risks of reduced income levels in the future and transmission of poverty between generations and with the consolidation of negative demographic trends. Europe is proposing an instrument to counter this framework. It is said that, within four months of the loss of work for a young person up to 25 years old (in Italy the limit should be shifted to 29 years old) or from leaving school, it is necessary to contact and take charge of the young person, to propose a qualitatively valid offer - I repeat: qualitatively valid - of work, completion of the study, apprenticeship or internship. This is why 6 billion is committed over the period 2014-2020. We, President Letta, support and understand your request to concentrate the resources as much as possible and to start using them already from the beginning of 2014 and we understand and share the request for refinancing from 2016. Account must also be taken of the different national and local systems, gender differences or, in any case, the differences and diversity of young people for whom the measures are intended. However, we must do fundamental and general things for our country. We need to reorganise employment services; we need to reactivate the relevant delegation and exercise it as soon as possible. In the meantime, however, it is necessary to link the employment services that exist, networking them with the institutional and social actors involved, also in order to respond to the European demands for taking care of young people. Then we will have to develop the capacity to use the different European funds in an integrated way. I am not just talking about the European Social Fund (there is the proposal that, in the context of interventions which can be financed by the Social Fund, a specific initiative for youth employment should be defined), I am talking about all the funds. I am talking, for example, about the European Regional Development Fund (the link between the ESF and the ERDF for our regions is essential), the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. I mean, you have to work in an integrated way. Then, President Letta, we have dramatic inequalities to fill. We have territorial inequalities (and here we must be aware that, if the South of the country grows, the other areas grow more), gender inequalities (and here let me say that female and child poverty is increasing). We all know - and the experience of other countries confirms this - that women who work have more children and bring them up better. We also have income inequalities: we risk generations of men and women to attend, if we continue to do so. The fight against inequalities generates social cohesion and development, if we tackle it in a spirit of solidarity. Youth Guarantee talks about working experiences for young people. From this point of view, the situation is very heavy in our country. We should find new possibilities, with projects of interventions in areas characterized by high intensity of work - I am thinking of assistance to people, the intervention of environmental restoration and care of the territory, the care of cultural heritage and many other things that can come to mind - that allow experience and testing skills. We have the tools. Let us think of the experience of civil service: it should be adapted and re-modulated, but it has already proved itself. We must always bear in mind, however, that work, the rules underlying work and the dignity of young workers must never be underestimated. In fact, there is always talk of a qualitatively valid offer. Then there are training and the fight against school dispersal. I am pleased with the presence of the Minister of Education, University and Research. The differences must also be taken into account here. The data on school dispersal tell us, for example, that many are young foreigners; and from this point of view, training, including vocational and technical training, must be given value. Schools and teachers will need to be retrained. Our technical institutes have a great tradition and have been the flywheel that has allowed us to become the second manufacturing country in Europe; we must recover it and integrate young people into this process. As regards apprenticeships and traineeships, as well as participating in the European Alliance for Apprenticeships and intervening with changes to the regulations that make the institute attractive in this period of crisis, with the productive apparatus in the situation we know, we will have to integrate the different experiences that have already been developed in different Regions - President Letta, I do not think I have to speak to you about the experience "Young Yes" in Tuscany - in which, in addition to internships and traineeships, self-employment and self-entrepreneurship projects are encouraged and support is also given to the will of autonomous life of girls and boys. Experience has to be evaluated in order to grasp the positive aspects and problems that have been generated to overcome them. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are aware that we need to grow and reactivate domestic demand in order to solve unemployment problems. But we think that the Youth Guarantee can fulfil a fundamental task: not to make young people feel alone in such a difficult situation, not to abandon them and prepare them to profitably grasp the signs, even weak ones, of a restarting growth. We support it, Mr President, because we believe that the country needs the strength and energy of young people and we believe that young people living in Italy think, feel and relate to each other as young Europeans. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u15	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u16	Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow Senators, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament recognises the priority of the climate crisis and the fight against global warming for the protection of the planet, in order to pursue sustainable development in terms of carrying capacity. It is therefore primary to keep the warming of the planet below two degrees centigrade. This is an opportunity for change to define new low-carbon economies and lead to a new industrial revolution. This constraint, Mr President, although imposed by concern for the protection of the planet, is the engine of a new economy, capable of responding to the current economic crisis in the energy sector, but also of sustainable tourism. In the field of renewable energy, efficiency and energy saving, the challenge of innovation, competitiveness, work and future capacity will be global. The way in which energy is being used today does not meet the criteria of equity and sustainability: many peoples are not yet able to meet the primary needs and resources already appear close to the limit of exploitation. Data from various available sources, both institutional and non-institutional, on employment trends at international, Community and national levels, and projections at 2020, although very diverse and not always comparable because of the different methodologies adopted, confirm a trend in uncontrovertible action: employment growth in the new economy sectors that can not only have a compensatory effect compared to traditional jobs with a high environmental impact, but also to open up encouraging employment prospects to cope with the current crisis and relaunch the world economy. A study carried out by Bocconi University, jointly with the electric service manager, showed that the development of renewable technologies would increase the number of people employed to 150,000 and, above all, that, from the exploitation of technological potential, employment growth is expected by 2020 of 250,000 units. It is necessary to invest in technologies that allow the rational use of available resources for the benefit of as many individuals as possible, while respecting the biophysical limits of the planet. We believe it is necessary to create a new development pact, which assumes among its priority objectives a plan for full and good youth and female employment in all the sectors that we have identified as part of the green economy: dissemination of eco-innovation, energy saving, development of renewables, recycling of the subject, protection and enhancement of natural and cultural heritage, redevelopment of cities, sustainable mobility. Innovation, culture and the green economy are not only slogans, but they represent that concrete strategy for a new model of development that the course of events suggests to us with common sense to undertake. The government, regions and local authorities must coordinate actions, direct choices and promote the use of such systems for the benefit of citizens. Using renewable sources and reducing the energy consumption of our homes also means reducing the cost of bills for all citizens, supporting all families in difficulty, increasing comfort and enhancing the value of the property, improving the quality of our lives and our environment with the reduction of the consumption of fossil fuels; ultimately, this also means reducing the energy dependence of Italy. Therefore, the diversification of energy sources and the use of renewables will necessarily have to be changed, as is the intention of the European directives on energy. For this reason, the evolution of the national electrical system necessarily passes from the correct planning of the operations of development of the distribution network. I would just like to mention the interventions considered as priority for our territory, in particular those aimed at allowing the development of networks in island and isolated regions: I am referring to the connection of Sicily with Calabria and the upgrading of networks to 380 and 220 kilowatts, with the creation of a double submarine cable pipeline, considered necessary not only to ensure greater security of the electricity connection between the island and the continental area, but also to increase the exchanges of energy between the two zones, with obvious benefits also in terms of greater competition on the energy market. Today we are called to respect the environment: let us take into account the climate change of recent times, which has also had expected effects in the field of tourism. Young people's employment can share their entire employment structure and should be supported by measures to facilitate access to credit and tax incentives to reduce labour costs, without reducing wages. The creation of new green businesses must be encouraged, and the development of sustainable tourism must also be encouraged. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm finishing, Madam President. Defining and applying a protocol for the development of the sector means giving indications on the sustainable use of biodiversity: forests, water resources, energy, landscape are the true cultural identity of our beautiful Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u17	He is registered to speak Senator Marino Mauro Maria. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u18	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, after a proper and respectful remembrance of Senator Emilio Colombo, I turn to the discussion on the communications which the President of the Council has made to us on the next European Council, in full respect of paragraph 1 of Article 4 of Law No 234 of 2012. This is one of the first applications of this truly innovative discipline in relation to the role of national parliaments in defining the national position in the European context; a rule for which I had successfully fought in the last parliamentary term when I received the indications that were born from the Treaty of Lisbon. This procedure significantly enhances the Parliament-Government confrontation and, in my opinion, may represent the political-institutional reflection of the concrete attitude of the political forces that support the Government. In particular, I welcome the objective of seeking a shared position on important issues such as support for economic growth, the fight against youth unemployment, the banking union and the protection of the saver. My applause goes to the President-in-Office of the Council, who, at the same time, with his speech, is an admirable continuity and equally appreciable discontinuity. From the first point of view, as already for the intervention of 22 May last, in the wake of the initiatives of the Monti Government and Minister Moavero, we continue to connect with parliamentary procedures "strong" and demanding the work and commitment of the Executive in the Community fora. The discontinuity, on the other hand, is felt in relation to a custom that saw in past years the European matter relegated to a secondary role, the result of decisions and guidelines born out of the national political context, except then to invoke the "matrigna" nature of the Union, due to guidelines substantially suffered by the country. Taking up the happy distinction of President Letta himself in his speech of settlement, this is a clear policy direction. On the other hand, as President of the Finance and Treasury Commission, I refer to the quality and relevance of the issues covered by the next Council. I would also like to make one more fundamental point: beyond the individual subjects on the agenda of the meeting of Heads of State or Government, it is clear that the objective of future meetings can only be the definition of overall strategies and appropriate instruments to deal with the severe recession in progress and to bring the production levels of the Community area back to pre-crisis standards. The financial perspectives today present a lesser degree of uncertainty than in the past and therefore the choices of politics can guide the overall action of governments in a direction that can benefit from the achievements in the field of financial rigour, which remains an indispensable horizon, but no longer as the only way forward. Tax and tax policy is at the heart of the current political decision: the driving role of fiscal policies must be emphasised. The areas where the level of the levy hinders economic growth and operates accordingly need to be identified. It is not a question of choosing the productive sectors worthy of attention, but of directing public resources in favour of market-oriented activities, penalising - also through an increase in taxes - the positions of rent and unproductive wealth. It seems to me that the current crisis manifests itself not only with the contrast between protected and unprotected, between old and young, between women and precarious and integrated, but above all between those who work in the context of competition and in the market (including global), and who are therefore forced to recover competitiveness and efficiency, and those who are not exposed to this risk. The tax authorities must therefore move towards the first sector, including the simplification and simplification of procedures. I therefore hope that this approach, in accordance with the pacts signed, but in the conviction of working for a more flexible application of Community constraints, will be the basis of the Italian Government's discussion for the next Council. In addition to this basic approach, I would like to make a few substantive comments on the issues covered by the European Council. As regards the recommendations to Italy, the Commission focuses, among other things, on the statement made by the Italian Government on 17 May, aimed at confirming the commitments made with the Stability Programme 2013 and announcing new measures to be taken in full compliance with the budgetary objectives. These measures, contained in Decree-Law No 54 of 2013, include the suspension of the June instalment of the IMU on dwellings occupied by their owner (so-called IMU first house), and the refinancing of social shock absorbers through a reallocation of available budgetary resources in addition to those frozen during labour market reform in 2012. According to the Commission's assessment, these measures, if implemented consistently, do not have a significant impact on the deficit, which should remain below the 3% of GDP reference value. The House has already dismissed the text of the decree-law and the Commissions reunited 6a and 11a of the Senate are preparing to examine this provision: without anticipating the outcome of the debate - which is returned to the respective Commissions - I express the commitment to convert the decree quickly to confirm the commitments made by Italy on this front. The postponement of the payment of the IMU's instalment is not an escamotage, but it serves the Government and Parliament to identify the most suitable shared solution on a fiscal front that sees different options aligned: during the hearings of the survey on the taxation of real estate, the cycle of which ended today in the Finance and Treasury Commission, several ideas and different positions have emerged, but the road to a revision of the fiscal discipline that is able to reduce the levy considerably is confirmed. I would point out, however, that a revision of the IMU must be framed in an overall plan for the reform of taxation on buildings: in this framework, the choices - also in view of compensatory measures and for different balances - that will be made on the sector should be assessed. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said that we are facing a difficult political confrontation against national selfishness. That is what you will have to face at the next European Council. So, Mr President, make your voice heard, make our voice heard in order to achieve as quickly as possible the four unions to complete monetary union: banking, fiscal, economic and above all political union (to which the document of the four Presidents refers). In this way, we will be able to achieve the two main objectives that have shown us, first of all, the federalist movement. The first objective is the signing of a pre-constitutional pact by the countries of the eurozone, which contains the commitment to move from a provisional and intergovernmental government to a democratic and federal one, the currency, the taxation of the eurozone and the economy; the second objective is the quick convening of a European Constitution with the mandate to draw up the Federal Constitution of the Union and to establish transitional rules to regulate relations and the transition between old and new European institutions. Only then will we have against the Europe of technocracies, the true Europe of peoples and we will have arguments to overcome too easy demagogies. Good work, Mr. President. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Cristofaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u20	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I too agree with the words of those who have spoken before me in recalling Senator Emilio Colombo, who, moreover, our Group has honoured to have as a member. I would like to recall this, as the leader Karl Zeller has already publicly done this morning, as a constituent father of Republican Italy and a protagonist of the European Union. In our Group we have appreciated its fundamental commitment and its rigour both from an institutional and intellectual point of view. His lesson is not only political and remains at all. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we particularly appreciated your speech because of the very concreteness that distinguishes it, as always. You referred to the resolution of 21 May and you have come here on time to account for what has been done and also to confirm the political line that Parliament has indicated to you and that you and your Government are following. We also appreciated the two emergencies you outlined: that of youth employment and that of economic policy. You yourself mentioned dramatic figures and reiterated how this situation must end and find a solution. It is true that our future is at stake: in fact, the human capital represented by young people is involved and therefore the future ruling class is involved. We play everything on this challenge. Therefore, we particularly appreciate the fact that you have considered it as the crucial challenge of this Government, but also of the whole country and obviously of all the people who today feel the responsibility to think about the future, who will come after us, and not just the contingent. Similarly, we have also appreciated the recognition that everyone is entitled to a job: however, we cannot think only of those who already have a job or who have already guaranteed it, but we must think of those who have lost it or of those who have never had it. Therefore, its reference to the social forces, to the need for a different approach to labour market rules, also seems to me to be absolutely relevant. On the other hand, the world of work has changed; the rules have been largely shady: we must take note, without drama, but reacting and finding others or trying to give guarantees even with new rules. You have rightly spoken of a more flexible and mobile labour market; you have even spoken of a single labour market: this is certainly a difficult but unavoidable objective. It is clear that we need tools to achieve this mobility. There is no doubt that we must work on merit and commitment, which must be rewarded and recognised; otherwise we cannot be competitive. We must also create other conditions, such as increasing the knowledge of languages. It is unthinkable that a young man, but not only, can change his job or move around the world if he does not know languages. And Italy is dramatically behind from this point of view. In other European countries, young people know two or three languages, sometimes even four, they move easily from evening to morning and if they lose their jobs they move and find another. The Italian citizens, the young Italians unfortunately from this point of view are disadvantaged, have a less march. We must admit that, and this requires a fundamental effort. I too am glad that the Minister of Education is here today. Unfortunately, the school is stuck, we have to say it. The world changes at a dizzying pace and the school should change and adapt quickly. Instead, today we have a blocked school and every time you touch something happens the end of the world. I believe that we should learn to conceive of the school institution not only as a set of teachers, rights and contracts, but as an institution that prepares the citizen, who follows him, an institution that accompanies the evolution of the times. As you mentioned in your speech, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must be able to better combine the world of school with the world of work. The experiences of dual schools in the German world, but also many other European experiences, can teach and have led to excellent results that, unfortunately, in Italy we still do not have. We also shared his strong words about an identity choice, a direct choice, which is what will make the difference. We are very happy with your conviction, because at the moment, even in relation to the European scenario, it is what we need and absolutely need. Just as we share your belief that we think of concrete results, of giving ourselves deadlines. You spoke of 1 January 2014, of appropriations calibrated over the years and times. I am sure that you will be careful to check that these deadlines are met and that you will come here, as you are already doing in recent months, to see how the processes go ahead and how the results can be achieved. We also share the need to promote school exchanges, the Erasmus project for all, foreign traineeships. We need to invest more to make them a regular practice. Unfortunately, today these experiences are reserved for too few people, those who have the family behind them and who have economic availability. Instead, we should ensure that this opportunity is open to all. He spoke of youth entrepreneurship and confidence in the introduction, of giving young people concrete tools (he spoke of a targeted fund with important, substantial figures). These days, however, we are discussing in the Agriculture Committee a draft law for youth entrepreneurship in agriculture presented by our colleagues in the Democratic Party on which we will be working. I think it will be one of the regulations that will prove useful to restore confidence in entrepreneurship, putting themselves at stake and putting into play, above all, their ideas, their professionalism and ability. There is also a need (as you yourself said well) for investment in credit. You can't create a company, you can't invest if you don't have the resources. Young people today are unable to provide banks with the guarantees to obtain the necessary resources. Therefore, this particular effort on credit, banks attentive to the territory, on those investing in the territory today is absolutely indispensable. Even the most important role you see for the European Investment Bank (EIB) is a very strategic choice; not easy, but certainly strategic. It also referred to the Structural Funds, the European Social Fund. Here, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I really want to call for the European Commission's budget and the regulations to be adopted soon and for procedures to be simplified, because it is not always easy to implement European projects. Some of my previous colleagues, as you yourself mentioned, have suggested using the opportunities offered by the European instruments more. There are virtuous territories: the Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, for example, have managed to use them to the full, but we need to improve the results of the other Italian territories. I should like to end by thanking you for your conviction that you have also expressed in this House, for speaking of choices not on the downside but on the other hand of a challenge, of a strong relaunch; for showing that you believe, for speaking of the Europe of peoples, citizens and minds. I really hope that this ambition of yours, which also expresses on behalf of the whole Parliament (but I would like to say of all the Italian people, who have always believed in the European Union, and our country has been one of the founders of the European idea, of these United States of Europe, which you mentioned as the ambition of ambitions), can also serve to convince the other States of Europe and thus lead to a truly concrete result. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and Senators Albertini and Puppato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u21	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u22	Madam President, the Mixed Left Group on Ecology and Freedom naturally also supports the condolences expressed by colleagues who have already spoken, who have mentioned with emotion and greeted Senator Colombo for the last time. I recall clearly your speech, which was also very beautiful, made a few weeks ago here in the Senate, during a joint session of the Foreign Affairs Committees of the House and the Senate which had a hearing of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the agenda. In that place, Senator Colombo recalled what he called the many European Solons and the centrality of the formation of the United States of Europe exactly as the first among all the political objectives to be achieved. We want to greet and remember Senator Colombo with great esteem and of course thank him for having spent a lifetime for the Italian Republic. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we know that the forthcoming meetings of the European Council will put - as you said this evening - at the centre of the agenda, in addition to the usual objectives of competitiveness, growth and the path towards the completion of the fiscal and monetary union, the evaluation of an effort to address the issue of youth unemployment. It is an issue which, of course, seems to us to be of great interest, partly because (it has been said) because of the scale it has taken, it is now urgent to mention the issue of unemployment affecting the younger generations, especially since the crisis has worsened, also - it has to be said - for the procyclical measures suggested by the European institutions and adopted by the countries of the euro area. That is why, Mr President, we share the effort you are making to make these issues at least a ground for collective discussion. However, we believe that these measures require some further assessment, starting with the comments on the measures to be taken to strengthen competitiveness and growth. Well, in the five years that we have behind us and that have seen the beginning and then deepen the very serious crisis of the world economies and in particular European, the terms "competitiveness" and "growth" have been a mantra that we have heard regularly at each summit. But the measures that have been suggested and adopted seem to us to have stimulated neither competitiveness but neither growth. On the contrary, the economies have weakened, affected by those measures that, with a real oxymoron, have been defined as expansive austerity. However, as is evident from all indicators, there is very little expansionary. Not only has the problem of public debt not been remedied, but - as in the Italian case too - economic indicators worsen as a result of austerity and employment is particularly affected, especially in the case of young people. And I do not want to repeat here the ISTAT data, which you have already mentioned, the dramatic figures that are now talking about a new and, indeed, dramatic issue. We think, together with the CGIL, that active labour policies should remain the responsibility of the public sector, but the public sector is the most affected by structural reform policies which are still considered by too many to be the alpha and omega of the action of national governments, which may perhaps have limited room for manoeuvre, but in many cases they have a direct responsibility for the effects on youth employment. It is enough here to recall the harmful effect of the Fornero reform which has fostered further fragmentation and precarious employment without offering any serious compensation, let alone strengthening the permanent employment contract. Let us be clear, we appreciate and welcome the instruments designed to promote youth employment such as Youth Guarantee. Instruments such as these are a first step in addressing the issue of youth unemployment, which unfortunately appears to be a structural problem. However, we consider this to be an insufficient first step, especially because of the limited resources allocated. It seems clear to us that it is precisely the cutting of public resources that the strict rules of austerity require to put at risk the effectiveness of these programmes. That is why it seems to us that there is not enough priority for the issue of fiscal and banking union, which risks being left out because it lacks equal economic and political union. Compared with the appreciative and shared aims of strengthening the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, increasingly shifting taxation from inputs to assets and consumption, as well as the recommendation to proceed with the simplifications of the administrative apparatus, there are however not a few limits, and few and insufficient seem to be the measures able to reverse the course. No reference is made, on the other hand, to the priority of the fight against tax havens, towards which, as we know, a good share of the large incomes generated in Europe is diverted, and to forms of disincentive through the coordinated taxation of bank translations. Or, in terms of employment, it is a good thing that we refer to decontribution for new recruits, but it should be aimed at stabilising the employment relationship and not just at reducing the tax burden on companies. In short, we would like to say so. It seems to us that the whole agenda of the next European Council is still too internal to the perimeter of austerity that has marked the policy of the European institutions throughout the crisis management and that the small resources allocated and made available, the credit crunch that still stifles especially the small and medium-sized enterprises and the procyclical policies put in place by the governments, seriously jeopardise the achievement of those minimum objectives that the Council has set itself. That is precisely why we also believe that the recommendations made by the European Council after our country's exit from the infringement procedure do not allow us enough to reactivate our economy. Nor do they seem to take into account those statements from the International Monetary Fund itself which finally accuse recessionary policies, considering them for the first time, in no uncertain terms, inadequate to bring the European economy out of the crisis, and indeed because of the recessionary spiral that gripes Europe. That is why it is clear that the problem of unemployment, and youth unemployment in particular, cannot be separated from the question of budgetary rules and austerity policy: of course, in our opinion, in a very different sense from the recommendations of the summits of the European Union. All the more reason to believe - and we have been saying this for some time - that it was a mistake to include fiscal compact and the obligation to balance the budget in the Constitution, not being, among other things, the States that were not obliged at all, but only allowed to make constitutional rule what is a Treaty between States. In this way austerity has been constitutionalised, which is an economic policy and, in our opinion, a wrong policy. Nor does the 2013 DEF seem to give way to gaps that allow to get out of the rigid cage of financial sustainability, but it remains anchored to the perspective of fiscal structural balance for 2014-2015 and on predictions of growth of unrealistic GDP, which allow no possibility to put in place an anti-cyclical economic policy. We will have a way, in the course of the explanation of vote, of making other considerations; now I want to conclude by saying that, for all the reasons I have tried to explain, we believe that persevering the position that the framework should be the one defined by the Stability and Growth Pact, where it is unfortunately only a matter of stability and little of growth, is a serious mistake; and that, if the shortsightedness of European leadership were to continue, it would lead to disastrous consequences, which would render all efforts to reverse or even make even less difficult the effects of the longest crisis that Europe has ever experienced. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Puppato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Volpi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have already heard a lot of advice and clarification today, so I would like to distract you with a single number, which I find significant today, and with a brief reasoning that I would like to share with you, more on the approach than on specific issues. The number that struck me today is less than 4.5 percent of food consumption in April. Tomorrow in this House we will also discuss motions concerning poverty, and I believe that this number will also become significant for you, for the terms of confrontation you will have to have with our European partners, because that is the reality. You have also mentioned, like many colleagues, the specific numbers. We all know unemployment, unfortunately. In representing a part of my Group's original position, however, we would like to discuss with you precisely the approach to be taken with this Europe. Can we say together that this Europe, Mr Letta, is not Europe that we imagined Schuman, De Gasperi, Adenauer and probably not even the same Europe that President Colombo imagined himself, who today sadly leaves us with the free stand? President Colombo made a very clear analysis of Europe two weeks ago at the Joint Foreign Affairs Commissions of the House and Senate. You, in your inaugural speech, spoke of policies, that is, of proactive and implementing actions, of what governments can do, but, in this case, of what Europe can also do. I believe, Mr President, that this is the time to recognise that policies can be done if politics exists. Without politics, without the sensitivity of politics, policies that are realistic can hardly be put in place. Unfortunately, our impression is that this Europe has lost something important: its soul. He doesn't have that ability anymore. We're talking numbers, nations. You will now have to meet with our Northern European partners, who have something different because they have a different political culture. So, Mr Letta, if there is a political culture to be made available, let us make it available and compare ourselves with those political cultures which, still different from ours, may not have the same interpretation as Europe. Until we achieve that true synthesis with other European political cultures, in fact, we will hardly be able to imagine a Europe that has that soul that we are searching for. When I speak of a lack of soul, I also refer to that dissolution, at least apparent, of our stories, of the history of our territories, of the history of those social sensibilities that are no longer so recognized and recognizable. It is that form of lack of political commitment that sometimes, by looking at the simple numbers of Europe, makes us imagine that there are necessarily realities in those numbers. Let me tell you something else, Mr President: there is a state within this Europe that is a little too often a landlord. I would like to draw your attention to a fact which comes from parliamentary acts, and which also reminds my colleagues who attended the Committees on Constitutional Affairs and the Budget when it was said that the budget was balanced. Well, a passage is obvious. The Germany that delayed... [[Senator Volpi interrupts to draw the attention of the President of the Council]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are an opposition group. I know that we may seem irrelevant to you, but we would like to make two clear observations. And thank you, however, for your commitment to listening to everyone. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Germany, which teaches us, has postponed, as you know, the application of the budget balance to 2016 for the Länder and 2018 for the State. One news that no one reports in the newspapers is that Germany has two Länder in default. I take it back to remind you that no one is without problems in this Europe. What we do not like, however, is to imagine that, due to electoral problems or internal tranquillity, some countries think they can discharge responsibilities on other countries; and we do not like to imagine that in those countries you can save what you have at home (and I am referring precisely to Germany) creating social conflicts. Social conflicts can no longer be fashionable. I'm not anymore. I use a term not mine, but that seems absolutely clear to me, to say that someone has not understood that this is a geographically horizontal and socially absolutely interclassist crisis. This is an old term, but it is used today by someone to explain that no one is saved: you do not save the craftsman, unfortunately, you do not save the worker and you do not save the industrialist. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The interclassism of the crisis has only one answer: to find again that form of collaboration that allows, with the same form of interclassism, to respond in a concrete way to this type of crisis. This we must represent to Europe. We then want to urge you on another issue, which we believe to be the concrete one. It is not the image of the North against the South and selfishness, but it is the image of a political reality and an economic and social reality. There is no war between North and South, but these are different realities. Unfortunately, in the North, and you know that, the engine is shutting down and the moment we have to turn off the problem will affect us all. But we want to be proactive, Mr President. When we propose to you an idea of macro-regionality in Europe and also in the State itself, we want to represent something that concerns the social and economic homogeneity of the territories. You who have a political history know very well that a single policy of economic and social cohesion is no longer applicable at national level. The principles may remain, but there cannot be a single solution, because the territories have different vocations, have different stories, have different problems. If we succeed, also through collaboration with this Government, in making it clear that Europe has the possibility of helping homogeneous situations, where all social actors are put at the same table together with credit, together with local authorities, together with trade union organisations, on those territories, with those peculiarities, we can create something new to revive, at national level, an idea of a sustainable and diversified economy according to the values that can be given to the territories and, at European level, the credibility and recognizability of those territories with a new Europe. So maybe we can get a new address. This is our original idea. I hope it's not downgraded as rhetoric, because it's not. I do not intend, Mr President, to distract you so much from the numbers, but I just wanted to make one last comment. That representation that you will have to make of our country in a difficult context can have the support of everyone, but there must also be that political space that allows us all to recognize ourselves in that action towards Europe. However, I would also like to express a moment of positivity. Let an opponent tell that. We are ahead of the Italian Presidency. Well, Mr President, I would like to imagine that after what we are saying, after that minus 4.5% on food consumption, after those territories which, unfortunately, also present the dramatic nature of some victims of this crisis, this is a six-month period that brings feelings and ideas, and not just numbers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u25	She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I and all the members of the 5 Star Movement join in the mourning for the disappearance of Senator Emilio Colombo and I would like to reiterate, personally, the great emotion that I felt on the first day entering this House to see the last constituent Father there. Mr President, in an emergency situation such as the present one, it would be desirable to carry out a financial reform which is ethical and which in turn produces economic reform and healthy for all. Today there is an imbalance in financial investment, which is why, in the face of major international meetings, people are starving. In the current economic crisis, the income of a minority grows exponentially, while that of the majority weakens. This imbalance stems from ideologies that promote the absolute autonomy of the markets and financial speculation, thus denying the right of control of the States, even though they are charged with providing for the common good. These words were spoken by a new and revolutionary person and, be careful, he is not that provocateur of Beppe Grillo, but he is Pope Francis. Poverty is the condition of individuals or human communities who find themselves having, for economic reasons, limited or completely missing access to essential goods. Poverty is also the thing that makes you choose whether to die of hardship and humiliation due to lack of work or decide to work in an unhealthy place, then die of cancer, as in Porto Marghera or the ILVA of Taranto. But poverty is also the hunger to be loved (as Mother Teresa of Calcutta said), the need to be welcomed, protected, defended, considered. In Italy poverty is growing, and not only economic poverty. Income and living conditions, homeless people, more and more contracts, and the absence of work are increasingly alarming; a figure for everyone: in Italy only the poor children are almost 2 million. We define as poor those who cannot afford unexpected expenses, who cannot honor the mortgage of the house, who cannot get their children to study, who cannot afford adequate meals every two days, who cannot pay more bills of light and gas. Although it seems absurd to remember, one of the greatest joys for a person with financial problems is having a house heated in the cold winter and being able to wash with hot water. It is a feeling of conquest that those who have not experienced it cannot understand and talk about it here, among damask velvets, blue cars, caste privileges and lustres, I know, it may seem an almost impossible mission, and I would not want these moments to be lost in time like tears in the rain. George Farquhar wrote: "No crime is as shameful as poverty." Well, there are new forms of suicide never seen in Italy. President Letta, people come to fire today. Decide to immolate himself with fire is the extreme act; to set fire is a denunciation, a political denunciation. They look like war bulletins: a man hangs himself because he doesn't have a job; a man hasn't been paid for two years and is set on fire; a husband and wife commit suicide because of hardship and her brother kills himself; an entrepreneur shoots himself in the head and we could go on forever. The welfare that rests on the family, as a social shock absorber is a failure: the family can no longer make it. Old people with their increasingly poor pensions must keep their young and less young, unemployed and unemployed children, who do not even look for work anymore because, as you know, work is not there and if it is okay become one of the many new slaves to whom time is stolen, maybe in a call center at 500 euros per month without guarantees for the future. How long can this miserable balance work? Gentlemen, we are the State, it is we who decide for the good or the evil of the citizens. No one wants suffering and no one has to subtract from his own responsibilities: it is the choices that revolutionize things. Let's start with the concept that money doesn't disappear, but simply move and we have a duty to move it where emergencies are. Do we want to get closer to Europe? Well, we of the 5 Star Movement ask aloud for the establishment of citizenship income, because no one must remain behind [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because we are obliged to do something that brings people closer to the state, a state that should make people feel defended, cared for and welcome. We avoid the further humiliation of poverty cards, which you call social cards. Have you ever had the drunkenness of owning such a card? Have you ever felt the humiliation of someone who goes to the counter at a supermarket and does everything so the neighbor doesn't see how he's paying the groceries? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Pollini. Mr Paglini (M5S). I shall conclude, Madam President. Citizenship income does not mean implementing welfare policies, but it means giving life to the principle of substantial equality, enshrined in Article 3 of our Constitution, in which the constituent Fathers and Mothers had foreseen that: It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person. Citizenship income is the only way to stop this mined society, based on financial and electoral exploitation. Citizenship income, citizenship income, citizenship income! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Cristofaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u27	Senator Paglini, the Presidency authorizes you to leave your written speech to the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u28	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u29	Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the People of Liberty I pay a heartfelt tribute to the memory of Emilio Colombo. For personal reasons, I had the opportunity to meet him and attend him many years ago. He reminded us here that he inaugurated this legislature, in the Senate, presiding over the first two sessions and I would like to stress the democratic education he has given us over the last few days and months, participating in the sessions of the Assembly, following the debate carefully, giving us all a lesson that I believe we must remember. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and Senator Berger Groups.]] Mr Letta, you have given us a serious and concrete speech. The economic situation is dramatic: people and public opinion react with anger when we discuss and discuss issues that do not concern the economy. It is very important for the Government and Parliament to say clearly, in simple words, what is being done, how and when. You can't make all the laws in a few days, but track a certain path in ways and times you can and must do. The link between the economy and Europe is very close. There is no doubt that a non-secondary reason for our crisis lies in the fact that, since 2008, many countries outside Europe have focused on development, while we in Europe have mainly thought about the reduction of the deficit and only recently have we focused on development. Development is achieved through a series of different actions, which are all inspired by a single philosophy. I would like to focus on two of the specific topics covered by the next few days' European meeting, the first of which concerns banks. Until 2011, the ECB kept rates much higher than in the rest of the world, precisely because the biggest concern was the fight against inflation: we all remember President Trichet's words. While the world and Europe were going back, while we were going into recession, we were worried about inflation. The ECB cannot print money: in the meantime, the United States of America and Japan were printing money. The International Monetary Fund has recently caused a stir by saying that it may have had a wrong attitude with Greece, while Greek citizens have suffered and continue to suffer unspeakable social penalties. In September 2008, the Lehman Brothers crisis occurred. A few days later, in early October, Italy, France, Germany and England met in Paris together with the leaders of Europe: they wanted to reach agreement on how to support the European banking system. The conclusion was: each country does what it thinks it is doing. In other words, there was no union in this area. In June 2010, the crisis passed from the banking system to the system of public debt: even here Europe left every country to solve its problems. Only in 2012 - and fortunately in 2011 in Trichet had succeeded Draghi - the ECB intervened to help some of our states. The aid to banks did not benefit their customers; indeed, the various Basel 1, 2 and 3, placing constraints on banks, actually meant that banks vis-à-vis their customers were more fiscal and less willing to give money. This is a great motivation for the crisis that we are witnessing, as it has been determined. A genuine European banking union must now be achieved, ensuring that the system is sound and transparent and that households and businesses are given credit. Let's move on to the young people. Since industrialization, i.e. for more than a century, we have seen children earn more than their parents and often help them. In recent years, children have begun to earn less than their parents and, now, they no longer find jobs. This is the situation we are in. Mr President, it is very appropriate for the Council of Ministers to take concrete measures tomorrow in favour of young people; it is appropriate for our young people and for our country and it is appropriate because you will be stronger in making specific demands on Europe on this issue. That is why I do not think I can get out of the matter if I say that young people also deserve that, with regard to them and to society, there is the affirmation of moral values and there is the affirmation that social imbalances must not be excessive. Last week, the Senate passed almost unanimously (there was abstention from someone) a motion that dictates the lines to the Government for the nominations that this will have to do in public bodies or companies in which the State has a significant participation. One of these rules provides for a limitation of emoluments. We have voted for this rule with some concern, because if it is right to set a limit on the one hand, on the other there is concern that important public-sector companies also have important managers. I have an advanced age and I remember that, when I was young, a manager that I considered to be very successful was Vittorio Valletta, who took FIAT, when it was returned to its shareholders after the immediate post-war period had been almost nationalized, and made it a company of great national and international level. The objective, one of FIAT's achievements, was to increase employment every year. Well, Vittorio Valletta was a manager who had great power, but his salary was about ten times the lowest salary earned in FIAT. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I think, Mr President, that if Europe were to set itself the objective of restricting it at European level, and then being an interpreter of it at G20 level, so that the big managers would earn yes, but within a range not exceeding 15-20 times what the worker earns with the lowest salary in the same company, it would be a sign to the young people who are actually thinking of a slightly more orderly development. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I think that if European institutions, the Italian Government and Parliament set out a clear path towards development, they will trigger a virtuous mechanism that will produce concrete results, which are indispensable, and reverse a dramatic psychological situation in which we find ourselves, finally giving this country and our Europe the prospect that development is possible. [[Applause from the PdL Group and the Senators Airola and Marton.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u30	Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u31	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I too should like to begin by remembering President Colombo for his precious testimony of life, and I shall now go on to the subject. President Letta, I am convinced, after the speech you have made today in this House, that Italy will be able to stand up to the next European Council, not only for the proposals that you will bring, but also for the consolidation actions carried out in the public finances over the last two years and for the fact that we are leaving the infringement procedure for excessive deficits. I hope that this important result will increase our credibility on the markets at international level and give Italy greater capacity to influence EU policies. Let us remember, however, that this is a result of heavy austerity, of strict public finances which has required huge sacrifices to families, businesses, citizens, in particular those with lower incomes. Today the country is in great difficulty, with large and small companies closing, too high a tax burden, alarming unemployment. In recent weeks, you have brought to the attention of our European partners the difficult situation of employment, of youth in particular, which is Italian but also common to many other European countries and requires immediate measures from the Union. It is therefore important to spend this credibility on the European Council now in order to commit the Commission to taking more decisive action in order to give new oxygen to businesses, the unemployed and young Italians. Today we must put the issue of growth and employment at the centre. Just one warning: let us not be attracted by the captivating suggestion of being able to pass the 3% parameter in the deficit-to-GDP ratio. Perhaps it is true, as some have said, that even if we do so we would not be driven out of Europe, of which we are proud founders, but the subject is another one and it is about the way we want to be in Europe: not as a taillight, not as a weak link, an unreliable nation; we want to be the driving force behind the change in European politics, and this is achieved only by respecting the pacts. In addition to the issue of employment, on which you have spoken and on which the debate has also been very explicit, we call for a change of pace with regard to economic policy in a more specific sense. We identify some passages on which I would like to dwell. First of all, as he said in his speech, we need a stronger implementation of the European programme on growth and jobs, based on a stronger role of the European Investment Bank, in order to promote credit which, as we know, is the engine of development. Secondly, I believe that a relaunch of a major European infrastructure plan should be proposed in Europe with the issuance of project bonds guaranteed by European bonds: this is an abandoned issue, but I believe that it would be important for development to re-examine it. Thirdly, I am thinking of the introduction of the so-called golden rule, i.e. the possibility that countries in compliance with the 3% parameter can remove from this constraint investments qualified as productive: infrastructure, research, training, sectoral development policies as well as employment. I hope that Italy will have the strength to put this issue at this European Council, because for Italy it would mean having important flexibility margins in 2014, which could allow us to reconsider the Internal Stability Pact for Municipalities and also the conclusion already in 2014 of the payment of public administration's debts to businesses. Finally, we should make better use of the structural funds available: we have heard the serious complaint from Minister Moavero that 60% of these funds have not been used. However, Mr Letta, there is also a need to place at European level the issue of focusing more on the cycle of European funds 2014-2020 on the objectives of growth in investment for the system of employment, research and the ability to create development. I believe, for example, that this would mean that the Social Fund could become the real driving force behind an employment and youth policy in the six years before us. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to give you one last encouragement to continue your determined action in Europe. The European institutions are not only the places of accounting and finance: stability agreements are instruments, not the aim; the aim of a European project is to work, growth and social inclusion. Before the tables and numbers of macroeconomic constraints that bind us to our partners, there are the common values that we share, which lead us to say that we want to be in Europe with an Italian vocation to be the driving force behind a European integration that brings more positive and socially advanced opportunities for all its citizens. In this sense, I wish you good work for our country and for a united Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u32	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I would like to inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1, No 2, No 3 by Senator Morra and No 3 by Senator De Cristofaro and No 4 by Senator Calderoli and No 5 by Senators Zanda and other Senators, whose text is being distributed, have been tabled by Senator Bitonci and other Senators. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Enrico Letta.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u33	Madam President, Mr Senators, I thank you for this very detailed and very interesting debate, from which I would like to address a number of points, in particular the questions that have been raised. Certainly, as my colleagues Chiti, Mauro Maria, Marino and Panizza have said very strongly, this type of debate is today a very important innovation, which started a few months ago, and which will certainly give, to those who on Thursday will have to sit around that table - in which one person must represent an entire country - a greater force, a different awareness than the ability to ensure that on the main issues of which the Italian Parliament will speak, that is, the place of popular sovereignty, can actually indicate a road and priorities, those to which I feel bound compared to what we are going to do. In this sense, I too believe that the centrality of the European story has now become far greater than we used to be. Today we are here to highlight how this centrality is a fundamental point, and I thank you for the words that have been said and that certainly make me today more able to address this issue, among other things, also starting - said Senator Panizza before - from the strength of the autonomous territories, to which I feel particularly attached. Senator Compagna said that the solution to the crisis must be European, and this solution can only come out of the European institutions; therefore, the European Council is the place where all this must take place, knowing that the crisis is not limited to one or more countries: it is a crisis of all, as Pier Ferdinando Casini said before. I take this step back because I think it is essential: we must convince all the European countries that no one is saved, if, overall, the European one is a crisis that continues to shatter. Seeing still today the difficulty on the markets of interest rates makes it clear that it is not that someone earns and others does not: the market in the end is the same; consumption goes down in all countries and the solution can only be overall and can only start from work, from the centrality of work. I would like to address Mr De Cristofaro, who rightly pointed out this point in his speech: the centrality of work. I am glad that this centrality has been a theme that has resonated in this House, and I am glad that it will be the theme that will resonate on Thursday and Friday in the European Council, where everyone will have to say theirs on the issue of work, because that is where we start. And of course, everyone will have to decline it in their own way. There are those who will have to talk about their own national shortcomings. Maria Grazia Gatti referred to employment services: I take this point again because it is clearly one of our main problems, and it is a particular theme if we verify the fact that our country has higher unemployment figures, longer times than those of other countries for the transition from one period of work to another. And then, we see the efficiency of our employment services compared to that of others, and we realize that there of course the problem is strong and very particular. Furthermore, Mr De Cristofaro spoke about the issue of tax havens, on which the European Council of 22 May discussed, reaching very important conclusions in my opinion. With regard to taxation, I would like to take up the words of Mr Vacciano, whom I fully agree, because either we consider the issue of tax evasion and, above all, tax avoidance (the great forgotten of all policies against the lack of attention given to the subject of fiscal loyalty) or there is no chance that any country in the European Union will get away with it. I saw with my own eyes a change of pace: I saw it at the European Council on 22 May and saw it at the G8. For example, I was very impressed by the attitude of the British G8 Presidency: Britain is linked to a number of territories (such as the Isle of Man, Guernsey and others) that are real tax havens. The British Premier arrived at the G8, in which it was discussed and decided to put strong pressure on the issues of the so-called tax havens, which must end, taking an important step himself compared to the tax havens linked to his country. I feel that the climate has changed on this subject. Today, no Italian with current accounts in tax havens can imagine that there is the same climate as ten years ago, that is not the case: the pressure that exists today and there will be more and more around these issues to arrive at a solution can only be a collective pressure, of the whole European Union, of the industrialized countries and of the OECD. This is an issue that everyone considers to be decisive, because it is not possible to live this asymmetry between those who pay all taxes up to the last cent and those who instead take away from the attention of the community from participation in the common expenses whole quantities of resources and capital. This issue is now part of a collective commitment. In my opinion, the G8 has taken an extraordinary step forward on this, as has the European Council, and Italy is the most advanced country and - let me say - even the one that has the most interest of all. In fact, the amount of Italian money that is outside Italy and on which taxes have never been paid in our country is simply scandalous! [[Applause from the PD, PdL and M5S groups]] In our country the possibility to say that those who pay taxes up to the last cent must pay them less is tied exclusively and with great commitment to the fact that they can return to our country all these capitals on which the lens of the tax must be careful. We have to realize (in this regard, Mr Vacciano made a precise reference) that organized crime lives on this ability to connect to tax havens, in fact, the possibility of easily having liquids and tools that are not tracked and not taxed is one of the elements around which it builds everything that is negative in our country on these issues too. I mentioned these issues because the European Council of 22 May (on 21 May we were meeting here to discuss them together) addressed positively the issue of the fight against tax havens and addressed - perhaps less positively, but the glass is half full - also the subject to which Mr Santangelo referred, namely that of renewable energy. In this respect, the European Council has made some commitments, not quite as we would like them to be. Certainly, a step has been taken towards European unification on the subject of energy, although that is not enough for the analysis I feel I am making. It is clear that the debate in this House is strong because, at least we have the feeling that there has been a change of pace around these issues, in the different order of priorities, and that we all share. As Senator Sara Paglini has just pointed out, we must start from the deep sense of the inequalities that are causing dramatic situations throughout Europe to be experienced by increasing parts of our populations. Around the theme of the fight against poverty from tomorrow morning we will begin to make some small (given the state of the public finances of our country) step forward. We consider it essential to regard the fight against extreme poverty as a matter of concern, regardless of the fact that, as is often the case in Western societies, those who are in extreme poverty often and willingly are not citizens of the political arena: often and willingly they do not participate, nor vote, are not organized and, therefore, are unable to assert their voice and to obtain a shift of resources and attention around their needs that do not come from the electoral circuit considered useful and fundamental. As I said, tomorrow morning we will take a first step in this direction. However, I consider it very important that this issue has come to the fore in our debate today, because it is an integral part of the reasoning that we will try to bring into the European debate. Many speeches have referred to the issue of European integration and - I quote a passage from Senator Volpi - the soul to be put back into European construction. I believe that, in the end, that Europe we want to build is built and there is if the policy really goes back to leading it. In this regard, although I have made in this House, in the speech in which I asked for your confidence a reference to the fundamental distinction between politics and politics (which remains a distinction, in my opinion, of wisdom in the particular political situation that our country is experiencing), I believe that the European one is an affair in which - I agree - there is political leadership, political vision and the sense on the part of each of us of a political mission, or there is no chance of doing so. Europe will not grow and will not actually become what we all hope for, it aspires to be able to leave to its children, with technicalisms, small regulations and Eurocrats who decide. We all know that. But be careful. It is not enough to dump our frustrations against the Eurocrats or against everything technocratic there can be in Brussels: the problem is we who leave that space. In fact, if politics does its duty and guides the paths then it succeeds in achieving results and ensuring that this guide can be there. I believe that there is a great deal of room for policy in Europe, and in the choices we have to make, and in understanding that we must make courageous changes around these choices. Giorgio Santini referred to the question of the Structural Funds. Do we want to continue to be the country that spends the worst on the Structural Funds? Is it the fault of some Eurocrates in Brussels if we spend the Structural Funds badly, or is it not our fault that we have always spent the European Structural Funds badly? Are these European funds? No. It's Italian money, this, because it comes from Italy's participation... [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups and the Senators D'Onghia and Zin)...]] to the European story that goes back to us as structural funds and that we give to Portugal and Ireland because they use them better than we do. Is this right? Is it someone's fault in Brussels? No, it's our fault. I would like this to be the deep awareness with which, around all these issues, we try to move forward. I want to conclude by repeating the intervention of Senator Carraro, who referred to a certain path, and who, moreover, I greatly appreciated in the passage on the salaries of public leaders. Because I also think it's a scandal, that there are, not only in private companies but in public executives who earn multiples absolutely unbearable compared to what any public employee earns... [[Applause]] Today I also feel a little quieter because, as you know, having the Government on its salaries made a choice, i.e. having eliminated the salary as Minister and as President and maintained only as a single salary that as a Member of Parliament, it will be easier for me to go and talk to some public managers and tell them: I don't think it's fair that you earn 30 times what the President of the Council of your country is making you. [[Applause.]] Senator Carraro asked me for a certain route and, since he is a sportsman, I will make a sport reference. Today the exit from the infringement procedure, which we will live on Thursday and Friday, thanks to the action of all Italians, and in particular of the Monti Government, which I would like to thank here. [[Applause from the PD and SCP Groups),]] allows us to look at the future in a different way. But I want to say where the difference lies, because in my opinion this is fundamental, and I say it because too many times I too hear it repeat: 3 percent... but in the end France and Spain... why not us too? So we have some extra money. I want to insist on that. For us, today, getting out of the infringement procedure means entering a path that allows us to then have an important prize. It's like cycling. Today we are facing three phases of our journey over the next 18 months, a period that I have always indicated, also in the speech made here, as the path of this phase of government action. There are three stages. The first phase is the most difficult: we have the mountain grand prize now. The second phase: we'll have a fake plan at the end of the year. The third phase: we will have the descent in 2014. Why do I quote this? Of course, we are in the process of exiting the infringement procedure today. The release will take place on Thursday and Friday, and it is clear that the rigidity is due to the fact that we are in a 2013 budget. And it is a 2013 budget in which we can only cover what we want to do with cover within the budget. It's clear to all of us. We have no room for extra flexibility, because the budget is this year's budget, and we have all agreed that some choices have to be made, which have to do with some tax issues, some issues relating to work for young people, the earthquake of the Eagle and the earthquake of Emilia, which have to do with emergencies, and we know that we have to cover these choices. However, we have to cover them in the budget, and so it is the grand prize of the mountain. Today, we are facing the most complex passage. Then, at the end of the year, there will be a false plan, a plain pass, because I realize that we will be able to have two positive results. With regard to the first positive result, it is the first results on the public budget and on the economy of the transaction to place those tens of billion payments of the credits that the enterprises boast towards the public administration, that it represents and has represented in recent years one of the greatest demands that we all have addressed to our State, and that today is being paid and will have beneficial effects on the public budget, in terms of tax revenues (we know, the VAT), and of course in terms of also of the growth of the economy. As for the second result, today I have to say it with more caution than last week: if you continue to hold interest rates on our public debt, we will be able at the end of the year to have a little less weight on the total annual amount of our debt service, which obviously depends entirely on that level of interest rates. This means having the plain at the end of the year. Then next year, the descent. Of course, it won't be a steep descent, but sometimes it's even better to have a slightly flatter descent to avoid getting hurt. Therefore, it will be a descent, and it will be because we can manage ourselves by getting out of the procedure with greater flexibility. With the 2014 budget that we will do here - the government will propose it and Parliament will discuss it, change it and approve it in the stability law that we will do together in the autumn of this year - we will be able to use that flexibility that this year more than we can use, because we will no longer be the special overseer. We'll have the budget. We will no longer be in the procedure, because the procedure is not only a political fact but also a legal and formal one. Not being in there anymore means having a margin of work that will allow us to choose together. That is why I say that we must be realistic, pragmatic, but I am optimistic about this path. If we do the mountain grand prize now, if we do the plain then, the 2014 descent will allow us to drive Europe in the second quarter and take, at that time, that decisive step towards the United States of Europe that - let me say it with some national pride - only an Italian Presidency of the European Union will be able to make Europe do it. [[Live and sustained applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, GAL and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I would now ask you to give your opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u35	Madam President, the opinion is of course in favour of resolution No 5 by the majority and, consequently, for the issues dealt with, negative on the others, with the exception of the motions for resolutions Nos 5 and 8, which have been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 1 and 4 respectively signed by Senator Bitonci and others and Senator Calderoli. In fact, for the first time I propose a rewording that includes the addition of a passage on the subject of the referendum (like the other time), that is, "within the limits of the constraints deriving from the constitutional systems of Italy and the other Member States" because I believe it is an essential issue. With regard to motion for a resolution No 4 signed by Senator Calderoli, I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u36	Senator Bitonci, do you accept the reformulation suggested by the President of the Council?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u37	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u38	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u41	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to reiterate our full agreement with what you have said, including your approach to this debate. It is clear that it is in agreement with this House and also with the statements made by almost all those who have spoken today. We have particularly appreciated the language of truth and reality that you have adopted: on the one hand, you spoke of true Europe, of that made by businesses, young people, families and territories; on the other hand, you also spoke of a Europe that needs a political vision, of living ideals and of cultivating hope. It is an attitude that finally looks at Europe according to the rules of a fair relationship and in Italy's respect for the rules that Europe possesses. 18.42 p.m. (Follow PANIZE). I believe that this is also the right approach that we must take to regain the confidence of other European states, and I would also like to say for the right dignity that our country must have towards the Union. Today I believe that the dignity of our country represented it absolutely in full. The Group for Autonomy has shared and signed the motion for a resolution No 5 which also contains all the practical components, indications and clear directives that you have also wanted to list today. So, on the one hand, the choice to remember all the commitments Italy has towards Europe, including respect for the European Commission's indications; then, the recognition of itself in the Pact for Growth and Jobs, the document "Towards a genuine Economic and Monetary Union," the commitment to promote the strengthening of the European Union's instruments and financial resources to support the economy, all the projects aimed at combating youth unemployment, and in particular the fund to which you referred in a very clear and detailed way. And again, the link between active labour policies and the school-university-work circuit, which has always been at the heart of the interest expressed by our Group; the reference to the banking union and, therefore, the need to create banking rules that protect savers and are also able to facilitate companies in their investments, as well as forms of guarantee for small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, then, reference is made to the implementation of the specific recommendations addressed to Italy, which provide for the maintenance of the balance of public finances, the containment of public debt, the will to give implementation and effectiveness to the reforms already in place, the promotion in the banking sector of the practices of corporate governance, the initiatives of reform of the labour market, the reduction of the fiscal pressure (measure also contained in one of the resolutions that today will be, I believe, approved). And then, the market in the services sector and, finally, the desire to reduce the number of infringements by Italian, to show that Italy believes in Europe and respects its rules. We are also pleased to take note of the commitment contained in the resolutions to ensure that the Italian Presidency can really be a constituent semester, which leads us to have more democratic, transparent, effective and efficient European institutions. His statements today give us hope and I believe that he will have us all at his side when he tries to restore passion and credibility to Europe and to ensure that this Union is really close to the territories, people and businesses that form its backbone. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u44	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the debate held by the political experts in the most recent past has accustomed us to identifying the contrast between two ways of making politics: on the one hand, the confessional mode, which is the one of those who believe that they have an idea of society and that they have a responsibility to transfer it to social life; on the other hand, the idea that politics has now become an unconfessional mode of development and that, therefore, the politician, in order to be as successful as possible, must govern not according to the confession possessed, that is to say, according to his ideal of society, but according to what he interprets as being the best desire of the elector and the voting people. With regard to the purpose and reason of today's debate and the motions for resolutions that we are about to vote on, I do not think that the current development is to be taken into account and I do not think that in the expression of our vote we must refer to what we believe or believe the people want, but to what is our conviction. We cannot, in fact, think of the United States of Europe without being convinced that this is the good and that in this direction we must operate our policy of support and ensure that that is the policy of the government. Many times we find ourselves in the difficulty of convincing our Eurosceptic friends and voters to do so. Many times, I believe, the government will find itself in the difficulty of convincing not friends, not Regions, not politicians, but whole states that are produced in a policy of Euroscepticism. You, Mr Letta, mentioned the United Kingdom just now. During the European semesters of the last legislature, in which I was representing Italy as a member of the Senate Finance Commission, I said that it was quite strange for the United Kingdom to attend meetings and that it had not signed the Treaty on Monetary Union. The representative of the British Parliament, in a very deaf and very English way, told me that he agreed with me, but that, unfortunately, his agreement was only shared by his cat. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will find yourself in the next few days, not only having to convince the British, but you will have to take specific action to try to achieve the best of the interpretation that Germanic colleagues have had of Europe and the United States of Europe. And my Germanic colleagues are right, and quite rightly, convinced that they are on the side of reason when they end up being in relation to the banking union and the fiscal union of backward fervours. So that it is clear to everyone, I refer to what you said, President Letta, saying that the money we do not use is our money, Italian money. In that case, the friends representing North Italy do not think that that is Italian money, but, since 20 percent of the Italian taxes are paid by a 10 percent of the population (who are the inhabitants of Lombardy), they have just reason to think that that money is their money. When we refer to Europe, Germanic colleagues have every reason to think that European resources are their own resources, because they have a turnover of about EUR 3,500 billion, while ours is about 1,800. What is more important, however, is that of these EUR 3,500 billion, the Germans export about 1,400 (i.e. almost 50%), while we export 500 billion and, together with France and Spain, we do not reach the Germans' export mountain (because we reach the figure of 1,200 billion, against, in fact, the 1,400 in Germany alone). Germany, at this point, makes a reasoning and wonders: why do we have to take the risk of inflation? Why do we have to allow (and on this point the intervention of Senator Carraro finds me in disagreement) to print money? Why should we allow the increase in the denominator of the deficit-GDP ratio to be financed with public debt? Also because we have seen that this is what, in the United States of America and Japan, does not work anymore. In her speech, she gave three symptomatic phrases on this subject. I quote them, because I have reread them: we must fight against an insidious tendency to inertia, against an obstinate defense of rigid approaches and against a selfish protection of national prerogatives. I believe that you must receive our encouragement as a Government today, because the contrast that Italian politics must have with regard to those who have an insidious tendency, a selfish position and a stubborn defence must be supported and well defended by Parliament's vote. We cannot justify those who believe, within the great European family, that they are the best. And we can say, as a parliamentarians and representative of a small political part, that the Germans began their world oppositions by certain winners, and then they always lost wars. This must be remembered to them and also to us, because we must have the confidence of our conviction, we must be confessional in this regard and we must produce an action of contrast that, step by step, leads us to political union. From this point of view (step by step), when the banking union will be under discussion on 27 and 28 June, while the vote on the banking union is an action that has difficulty in being read by that voter that we must convince for our good reasons, we must talk about what she is talking about: the fact that, at the same time as the banking union, which is difficult to read, we are producing ourselves in a careful policy for young people. In fact, the first will lead us to fiscal and economic union, the second is the first step towards political union. The point I am making is that only attention to youth employment can really increase GDP, not consumerism. Consumption is different from consumerism. In the last century, the best times were when there was consumption, not consumerism. The critics of the New Deal teach that even the expansionary maneuvers of Roosevelt's memory, after the crisis of '29, did not produce the results hoped for because, close to the Second World War, America was still in serious crisis, and only when it was projected on consumption and international factors dictated the possibilities of consumption there was real recovery. Therefore, having a recovery based not on consumerism but on consumption is our need. And here there is no South, North, East or West, there is no problem of Ruhr or Padania, there is the problem of everyone: promoting real growth and a certain supply. Only if we stimulate generational rotation can we guarantee this and hope that the old continent will become a new continent. Our need is to ensure an univocal and generational recovery, to escape an infiltrating vetusity, to ensure that through this we can solve the problems of all and not, on the contrary, to have a problem whose suffering will be shared by the whole of Europe. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u47	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his comments on what he said earlier. We do not miss the context within which this attempt to at least address the most dramatic of emergencies since the crisis began. A crisis that many, for too long, have been illusory only to finance. Too late, we realized the extent and nature of a phenomenon affecting the most advanced economies, causing longer effects over time than has ever been seen since the post-war period. Above all, in Europe, we have allowed this crisis to act in depth for a long time, even before calling it by its name; that it would destroy productive capacity, work, skills, before we realized that there was a need for answers and solutions that were not taken for granted. The European institutions - and this is one of the decisive points for us - have a part of the responsibility for managing this crisis. In Europe we have heard that these were sovereign debt crises, that is, individual countries. And it has been explained to us, again by the European bodies, that the time of waste was over, that the sensible management of public finances was due to the heavier relapse of the effects of the crisis and that austerity was the only viable, hard but inevitable cure. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, the figures do not add up. Applying that cure the effects of the crisis have deepened, the difficulties of national economies have increased, incomes have plummeted downwards, social cohesion has begun to suffer as never happened for decades. We have before us the dramatic effects of this in Greece, Portugal and Spain. These countries, after the treatment, are not at all well; but we are not very healthy either. I don't think saying that means being anti-European. To say that austerity is killing Europe's dream means, on the contrary, taking political responsibility for Europe. Those of us who believe that our future should be that of the United States of Europe think that this continent cannot be in the eyes of its peoples only institutions which dismantle their rights in the name of a recovery that is getting further and further away and which, precisely for this reason, requires ever greater sacrifices. The results we have before us are only looking at the state of our country. Following the robust austerity care carried out by the Monti Government, GDP has shown a negative sign and unemployment has increased, without even taking into account the Cassa Integrazione and the undeclared unemployment. It is the photograph of a suffering country, to the point of seeing its productive sector sink. Since 2008, the economy has seen about 25% of its capacity dissolve, while the effects on employment have been dramatic: we have talked about it before and there is no need to add anything else. It goes without saying that the weakest are those who have paid the most for the crisis and the wrong policies. The dramatic numbers are enough to speak, in relation to the younger generations, of a real lost generation. So we appreciate the commitment of the European countries: unfortunately, however, this expenditure of energy, even communicative, in our opinion has produced a result still insufficient if in the end we talk, as it seems, at most of the advance of the operational fund for youth employment, which would reach an amount too modest, divided more between 2014 and 2015, and however without even a common agreement on this measure. However, it is understandable that over and above a certain limit, however, we cannot go and that is precisely the point. We understand well why it was enough to speculate about the involvement of the Bank deposits and loans or call into question the European Investment Bank to circumvent credit crunch, which paralyses the economy and puts out small and medium-sized enterprises, which in tight turn had the response of the guardians of austerity. However, this is a response which promises nothing good and even removes the idea of the golden rule, which would allow investment to be decommissioned from the calculation of the budget deficit, i.e. by placing all the political weight in the direction of the banking union and without giving too much to social issues on the table. Evidently a breath of oxygen is not allowed to those who are dying strangled by austerity. We have too much practice with this vocabulary - that of austerity - to hide what it really means, to imply that the structural reforms that the European Council will call for in its conclusions are too similar to those that have made it difficult to put in place also those active employment policies, on which the Council has also decided to work. On the other hand, we believe that it is also necessary and indispensable for the real political union of the continent to break the cage of austerity, starting with the radical amendment of the Treaty on the convergence of budgets, namely the fiscal compact, which we have already mentioned, which we consider to be one of the causes of the difficulties. In other words, we think that a priority must be set for investment in the real economy, starting with the relaunch of the internal market, through a policy of redistribution of income that favours demand, including through a transformation of the development model. Similarly, we believe - and we associate ourselves with those who have said so - that it is essential to work immediately on the construction of a continental system of citizenship income. As Ulrich Beck wrote - whom you know well, Mr President - a great European intellectual before German (if I may say so): There are times of the small policy of implementing the rules, and there is a time for the great policy of changing the rules. We believe that this is no longer the time of small politics, but that the time has come for the European Union to put in place a great policy of changing the rules of austerity, which are destroying the European dream and which are sowing fear and divisions among its peoples. A new European programme, a social compact - we want to call it that - is binding on the Member States, finally talking about sustainable development, social cohesion, the fight against inequalities and the fight against poverty. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u50	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank President Letta for his information and for his favourable opinion on our motion for a resolution. The press and the institutions pay great attention to this European Council. I think that the importance of the issues on the table should be recognised, particularly that of employment or, more rightly, unemployment, especially youth unemployment, as you mentioned. The fact that the issue is urgent and unavoidable is out of the question, that the European Council will be sufficiently decisive and decisive in this regard is, on the contrary, unbelievable. In our country, in the first quarter of 2013, the unemployment rate has risen to the highest historical level since 1977: we are over 12%. But the most worrying fact is youth unemployment. As mentioned, between 14 and 25 years of age we are over 40 percent. But the most striking fact, President Letta, is that the tax burden stands at 53%, it is among the highest in the world, and the real pressure, which is the one that interests our companies, exceeds 65%, so that our craftsmen work for the State until September, keeping for themselves and their family only what remains in the last four months. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] President Letta, you were talking about tax havens and England. Look at the fact that England is already a tax haven, because it applies 20% taxation on companies and therefore, compared to taxation in Italy, we can all consider it a tax haven. The cost of labour has become intolerable for companies and also for workers; resources are needed for reduction measures, through a tax reduction and a decontribution to employers; the tax wedge must be reduced. Only in this way will it be possible to give businesses a breath of oxygen and enhance their competitiveness, creating a virtuous business-economy-employment circle. We also need policies of flexibility in the world of work; we need to combine the needs felt by companies with the certainty of the job required by young people and the less young, unemployed or unemployed. The Fornero reform must be cancelled immediately, Mr President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It was a disaster for youth employment; it created thousands of exodus and an obvious barrier of entry. These are not data that have come to light overnight; yet only today, after six years of economic crisis, the highest Community body says that the priority of its action must be work, without, however, clearly recognizing how much of this crisis has even been caused by the wrong policies imposed by the European Union itself on the Member States. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] To put unemployment with such a serious delay as a qualifying point on the European agenda is already, in itself, the clearest proof of the profound failure of the Community's path. And unfortunately we already know that the next European Council, according to a ritual that we now know, will be a meeting of Heads of State and Government, the highest institutional representations, which in several poses will lend themselves to memory photos, handshakes, with or without tie, flash and on occasions of the media, before and after having signed a final document of the summit, yet another, made only of programmatic lines and formulas of ritual. This June meeting, which should serve as a confrontation between the Member States, to coordinate and decide economic policies together, has become the moment when the European representatives elected by the people ratify without a stroke the diktats of the European Commission. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The Council is now nothing more than a megaphone of the delety recipes of a group of bureaucrats, particularly rigid and inflexible with some countries, the weakest and in difficulty, and more condescending with those who represent the greatest economic and financial power of the European territory. On our country, for example, the European Council will remind us that the Commission has agreed to close the excessive deficit procedure, without, however, giving us any real sigh of relief for our economy, unless we avoid further absurd sanctions that the European Commission could have imposed. The European Council will propose, with the applause of the Italian Government, yet another strategy for growth and the fight against unemployment, proposing formulas which are certainly of good intentions but of little concrete value. Employment, dear President, is not created by law; it is created in a dynamic economic system, productive, business-friendly, functional, and in a market made up of people who look to the future with confidence. What the League proposes, even with the document that it puts to the vote, is a change of pace, but a real change of pace. The Community policies we have so far known, this European machine, have shown all their weakness, inadequacy and rigidity. So you can't go on. Nothing the European Union can do against the economic crisis, which is destroying decades of industrial and social development, except by starting from a profound and total revolution of itself. Europe, as a container of mere economic or commercial policies, today not only no longer serves, but has become almost an obstacle and certainly a target of social and popular discontent. The survival of the very idea of Europe is a pity, today the European citizens no longer look to the European Union with the confidence with which they look at a project, a dream, an ideal of peace and well-being (for which it was born), but they look to Brussels with the fear of a guardian too deaf and severe, that the peoples of Europe do not love and that they do not believe, that does not want our good, but looks only to sterile concepts: budgetary rigour, price stability, regardless of people's living conditions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Europe's inability to react and manage the serious moment we are going through has gone hand in hand with the imposition on many countries of draconian economic measures, thus preventing on the domestic front any possibility of intervention in support of national and local economies. In our country we have had a taste of it with the famous letter of the ECB of autumn 2011, which has even determined the end of a government and the start of the forced commissioning by an Executive of technicians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Today we know that that Government, conceived by the European salons, has done so much damage and no decisive reform, and that the current Government, as first measures, must cancel the errors of the Monti Government; it must cancel the Fornero reform of the job [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ; it must completely reform a wrong and harmful IMU, which by now, however, has already irremediably destroyed the real estate market by blocking household consumption; it must freeze the increase in VAT, which will hit families and consumption heavily. Mr President, we are not making fun of Italians. A three-month delay is no good. Do not hide the dust under the carpet: it is not necessary. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The harmful results of the policies pursued by the European authorities, with the complicity of other international organizations, starting from the International Monetary Fund, towards countries in conditions of greatest difficulty, are now obvious and explicitly challenged even by some of the same leaders. Examples of this are the self-criticism of the International Monetary Fund towards the dramatically recessive strategy adopted for Greece, as well as the absurd sacrifices imposed on the savers of Cyprus. The very authority and credibility that a body such as the European Union had to offer to its Member States in order to strengthen itself on the international stage have been destroyed by the Troika's choices, imposed in violation of the sovereignty of elected governments and the promises made in the past. In conclusion, Mr President, let us take advantage of the opportunity already given by this forthcoming European Council to propose a new language, capable of responding effectively to the needs arising from the economic, employment and social crisis, immediately starting a profound revision of the European institutional architecture, aimed at achieving federal political union, on the basis of the results of a referendum involving all the peoples of Europe. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u53	MONTI (SPI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in declaring the Civic Choice Group's vote for Italy's resolution No 5, I would like to express to President Letta the congratulations of Civic Choice, as well as the warm congratulations I address to him as his predecessor in the leadership of the Government. I would like to thank you, Mr President, and all those who have, like you, wished to stress the continuity between the action of the previous Government and that of the one you chaired. I am not therefore going to highlight the aspect of continuity, except what I am saying to you, Mr President, about a strategic vision of the relationship between Italy and the European Union, which is part of your culture as well as ours, as Senator Casini has already highlighted. Within this common strategic vision there is one aspect, yes, that I want to emphasise. You and we have in common the demand for a strong, non-subalternal role for Italy in Europe; a leading role for Europe, not as an antagonist for Europe or for individual countries considered to be Europe's leader. However, in order to be a protagonist, it is necessary not to be in conditions of weakness, not to be guarded special, not to depend on the benevolence of others. You, Mr President, I am sure, will make good use of it, with the authority that in a very short time has already gained in those circuits and in the interest of Italy, the space of autonomy that our Government, with the support of Parliament, has sought to regain for Italy in the previous legislature. Today what you are proposing as action by the Government, what Parliament encourages you to achieve in Italy and Europe, would not be possible; in spite of your personal qualities, you would not have the political and national authority to do so, if you sat at the European Council on Thursday and Friday as holder of a country burdened not only by a very high debt, but by an excessive deficit procedure which is still in progress. Even less could she have presented herself with her dignity and the weight of Italy to that assembly if her predecessor had given way to the easy, prudent and advisable way, which was actually recommended to us by the international monetary and financial authorities as well as by some governments of Europe. In a market situation as tense as the one at the end of 2011, we were asked why we did not ask for a loan to the State-Save Fund or the International Monetary Fund. Our answer has always been: because we do not want Italy to lose sovereignty asymmetrically. As you said in a high way, Italy wants to contribute to the further construction of Europe by giving up shares of its sovereignty in a symmetrical way with respect to other countries and does not want to bow the head, which would, moreover, give place, as a counter-reaction within the country, to tones increasingly grievous, provincial, unrealistic and entrepreneurial, if Italy had to beg. We didn't want the troika in Rome. Yet we were advised to ask the troika to come to Rome, also because a few months ago, before the elections, there was a great deal of mistrust that was wrong in international circles; then we said that the elections are in every country and we wondered why Italian ones were feared. We were right not to fear the Italian elections. Well, they told me that if I wanted to be sure that my policies would be continued, I would have to ask the State-Save Fund for a loan, a measure that would have provided as a condition for the next Parliament - that is, you, ladies and gentlemen, together with the House of Deputies - to be harnessed by those policies. This is not the Italy we want, but it was necessary to do a hard job, with the support of Parliament more or less convinced, depending on the individual measures, and with the great support of the country, that there would not have been (I am convinced, even as a relative social tranquility, even at a stage of great pain and suffering) if those sacrifices had been seen as imposed by technocrats, those yes, who came to our capital and were part of an institution, perhaps beyond the Atlantic, that a year later would publish a note to explain that he had made great mistakes. We have withdrawn from this, and I confess that only by seeing you in that position, President Letta, I am convinced that we have done a good thing, because of the freedom that Italy has maintained, and indeed increased, you will make good use of. Mr President, you have used the words 'hard comparison', 'political comparison'. I'm sure he'll also have tough comparisons. I believe that we must all stop thinking that Germany's positions are absurd and cannot be changed with conviction. Germany's positions may be extreme on individual aspects, but they are not absurd: we had before the Maastricht Treaty and the Stability Pact, we would not have created the youth unemployment that is present in Italy, which we attribute to Europe rather than to too late a construction of Europe, whereas for decades in this House and in Montecitorio enormous volumes of public debt have been produced, which were said to be (the economists, not the public) would have resulted in an increase for future generations. Future generations have arrived and are our young unemployed. Well, Germany's positions - you know that - have had the necessary meetings for this purpose - can be the subject of reasoning, analysis and criticism. You have had the kindness, Mr President, to recall the Italian contribution to the European Council in June 2012 with the approval of the European Pact for Growth (actually for this reason we fought, even with the arrival in extremis, but still useful, of President Hollande), but you did not remember - nor did you have to remember - an instrument that I would perhaps suggest you to keep in mind in the background of your mind for rare but incisive use: the constructive veto. The real novelty of that European Council was not the Growth Pact, but having obtained the mechanism of the anti-spread shield, as it has been defined, today challenged - I believe mistakenly - in Germany before the Constitutional Court. Well, in that case Italy had to use the veto. Although all 27, Italy first and foremost, in favour of the Growth Pact, we used the veto, taking advantage of the fact that decisions must be taken unanimously (usually it is a bad thing to make things march, but sometimes it can be a positive device), and we told Chancellor Merkel and others that Italy would maintain a reserve on the Growth Pact until that same night or the next day the summit of the Eurozone had found an agreement - which Germany and the Nordic countries did not want - on the anti-spread mechanism. After a night's work, Germany also changed its position and that agreement was there: it was not the panacea, but it was the intellectual and political umbrella that a few weeks later allowed the President of the European Central Bank to implement that instrument, which Italy did not want to use because there was no need for it and because we wanted to preserve the freedom of the future Parliament and the future Government intact. I am sure that on matters such as the banking union, which Germany dangerously wants to delay, which France has lent itself too much to (maybe President Hollande had been close to Italy at that time!), you will be able to assert all the strength of your country and yours. I would like to add a comment on the issue of youth unemployment. In Italy, unemployment is dramatic, but I do not really believe that the primary responsibility for this is for Europe or for the measures that Italy has had to take to get out of an emergency situation and not to pledge itself to foreigners. The causes are the debt (on which I have already expressed myself), the insufficient competitiveness that Italy has had for 15 years and the many measures introduced by Parliament, on a proposal from various governments, to protect more and more those included in the markets, in the professions and in the labour market, to the detriment of the excluded and, in the first place, of young people. That is why, Mr Letta, if you had the magic wand and could come back from Brussels on Friday, having obtained the repeal or suspension of the Maastricht Treaty and the Stability Pact, I think it would be bad news for Italy, as well as being unrealistic. You, however, will get what is needed to give a more growth-oriented intonation and European policies. You have in the country a great coalition that serves to unblock Italy by implementing reforms that politically cost: you can lose the elections, but what does it matter? It would be trouble if a great coalition created to unlock the country would become a great "collusion" to curb the reforms in the country, letting interests prevail... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the SCPI Group and the Senators Tonini and Santini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u54	Senator Monti, please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u55	MONTI (SPI). I shall conclude, Mr President, by bowing to the memory of Emilio Colombo: his history as a great Italian builder of Europe must give us confidence. Italy was a decisive driver at three key moments: the decision to elect the European Parliament by direct suffrage (the Parliament was then chaired by Emilio Colombo); the 1985 Milan European Council, which started the Single Market, and the 1990 Rome European Council, which started the single currency, also under the Italian Presidency. I propose to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a fourth great opportunity: what the second half of 2014 under the Italian Presidency - I am sure as President Enrico Letta - is the three-year period from 2012 to 2014, in which Italian governments, at the turn of two legislatures, supported in a different way by two great national commitments, by two great coalitions, will have given Europe's economic and social policy, even with the advantage of Italy, a more balanced and more effective governance structure, and meanwhile they will have modernised the country. [[Applause from the SCPI, Pd, PdL, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI) and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u58	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Europe 2020 strategy aims to relaunch the economy of the European States over the next decade, focusing on a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy. Italy will therefore have to commit itself to achieving these objectives. In recent years, our country has witnessed the exponential growth of the unemployment rate which, according to the latest ISTAT report, has increased from 6.1 percent in 2007 to 12.8 percent in the first quarter of 2013. From the ISTAT report of April 2013, it appears that the main indicators indicate in the last five years obvious difficulties in the entry and permanence in the world of the work of Italian citizens. The growth of the unemployment rate has been accompanied not only by the loss of employment but also by the increase in potential labour force, i.e. unexploited (so-called inactive) and the part-time unemployed. Who are the potential workforce? They are citizens who have lost hope of finding work or who fail in their research. How many? According to the latest ISTAT data, more than 3 million people are available to work or seek work and about 3 million people are no longer looking for work which, together with 3,276 million unemployed and 605,000 underemployed, is an alarming figure. Almost 10 million Italian citizens receive no income and are therefore at risk of poverty and social exclusion. According to data provided by ISTAT, since 2007 there has been an increase in inactive people of 39.2% (12% of Italian labour force), compared with 4% of the European Union: almost three times the EU average. We could change Article 1 of the Constitution, Mr President, to the following: Italy is a Republic based on unemployment [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Our country is the only one in Europe that has such a high rate of inactive people. In particular, in Italy there is a third of the 8.8 million individuals who in the countries of the European Union claim not to seek work. But let's better analyze the figure: they are mainly Italian citizens, with a small percentage of foreigners, and 2 million of them are between 30 and 54 years old. Inactive and unemployed citizens between 30 and 54 years of age could become a serious social burden for our nation, as they lack the future, in total dependence on social security are citizens who will not be able to contribute to the growth of the country both from the working and the demographic growth; citizens who will not be able to afford to have a family. It is a chasm of the economic and social system of our country that will not allow entire generations the planning of their future and the sustainability of their present, with consequent insustainability of the social security system. I wonder if our constituent Fathers thought we could get to this! Another important and extremely significant fact is the progressive increase in the economic weight of social shock absorbers. The ISTAT report shows a fall, a fall in employment for both employees and self-employed in all sectors, with particular reference to the construction, industry and agriculture sectors. This has led to the impoverishment of the Italian productive fabric, the increase in unemployment resulting in a foreseeable future increase in the appropriations for income support, and an increase in citizens living below the poverty line. It is no coincidence that the manufacturing sector in Italy is in a severe crisis and needs both immediate and long-term interventions. There are 141 industrial disputes on the table of the Ministry of Economic Development: 141 companies calling for the help of the Government not to drown in the sea of the economic crisis and seeking in every way to protect the workplace of 111,000 workers at risk. Again, 111,000. Companies such as Indesit, Berco, Merck, Omsa, Sernam, Vinyls (we could list hundreds of cases) face a crisis that dramatically involves thousands of Italian workers and families. Globalisation has caused the transformation of the structure of world trade, implying significant negative impacts on the Italian economy, since those who governed us have not been able to manage change. From steel to textiles, through telecommunications, household appliances and the mining sector: all businesses that need to find a positive solution by September that will allow them not to close down or move abroad. And the almost 30 billion subsidies and incentives that the State distributes to the business world every year are not enough to help them restart their business or to give them a momentary breath of air. The effects of globalisation also concern the award of contracts, including service contracts, with the issuance of notices by the Italian public administration. One of the cases to be mentioned is that of the Dussmann Group, a multinational company specializing in the global provision of integrated services for industry, health, school and armed forces, which is the lowest winner of several calls issued by public administrations. In several cases, the company could not support the proper management of the service and the maintenance of the employment standards, thus greatly reducing the staff and generating numerous disputes. This is not an isolated case. It is part of the disassembled Italian working framework studded with corporate crises, distorted uses of the integration fund and is even more worrying if we consider the future prospects. The 2020 targets include achieving the 75% employment rate (67 per cent for Italy). Already this data is commented on by itself. How can such a result be achieved in the absence of a real transfer of deliveries between generations? So what should Italy be aiming at? What action would enable our country to contribute with equal economic and social dignity to the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of the European Union? Each Member State must be able to contribute with equal social and economic dignity to the European Union while respecting its vocations and commercial capacities. The valorization of agriculture, art, biodiversity, culture, music, architectural goods, of the Made in Italy of our land, together with the respect of justice intended as a fight against tax evasion, in short, the valorization of our civilization, with the help of innovation, constitute the recipe to make our nation an integral and proactive part of the European Union, not a ball at the foot, not a concern for countries that have been able to invest in a global market, but a necessary and integral part of it. In the implementation of social and employment policies, in the development of effective policies to combat poverty and to provide assistance to groups at risk of social exclusion, different data must be taken into account compared to other EU countries: the high percentage of unemployed and unemployed between 30 and 54 years old, the high percentage of inactive women and, not least, the high rate of tax evasion. It is necessary to implement a virtuous system in which the citizen is at the heart of the life of his nation, in accordance with the principles established by the Constitution, a welfare system that puts an end to the fragmentation of the services for the use of active policy programmes, the establishment of a single observatory at work, the compulsory link between the municipalities, the centres for public employment and the national system of the certified competences of each citizen. A real link between the system of education and training, the establishment of the income of citizenship or better the income of dignity, already existing in almost all the countries of the Union, would guarantee the flexibility of the labour market, allowing the training throughout life, the possibility of the companies to hire the workers finding them from the national system of certified skills and hindering the progressive marginalization of those who are only guilty of being unable to find work in a country in agony. The reduction in working time would also create new jobs and the redistribution of wages would ensure a fair system. Action needs to be taken at the next European Council in order to obtain an extraordinary allocation of additional resources both under the European Social Fund for the financing of projects to combat unemployment effectively, and under the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund. With regard to the Youth Guarantee Fund, it is essential to implement actions closely linked to the integration of young people into work. In this sense, we must put in place the overcoming of the so-called generational relay and instead pursue a real intergenerational pact, in line with the provisions of the Youth Guarantee program... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. CATALFO (M5S). ...encouraging the introduction of the figure of the full-time trainee to be supported by the qualified worker, in order to ensure the training of the former and the continuation of the latter's work and salary. The 5 Star Movement wants a simple, functional State, as the constituent Fathers had thought, in short, effective and efficient, a State that respects the dignity of the citizen, that removes obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the country. All this can be achieved in a simple way: by establishing the income of citizenship. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u61	BERNINI (PdL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, fellow senators, in anticipating the Group of the People of Freedom's Group's vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 5 of the majority, let me also thank Mr Letta, on behalf of my parliamentary group, for the important statements and replies he has made, which confirm us in the conviction that Italy is preparing to take part in the European Council on 27 and 28 June with the papers in order. I am not just referring to the coincidence with what has been pointed out from several quarters as an important opportunity to launch a policy finally aimed at what she wanted to define as flexible growth, namely the closure of the excessive deficit procedure already on our side. I would like to say that this procedure has turned out to be somewhat ungenerous if we consider the general picture of recession and red accounts in the rest of Europe, and especially if we consider the emergencies of the earthquakes in Abruzzo and Emilia-Romagna that the Government has had to deal with. Italy can induce a strong stimulus towards greater integration and must have if not pride, a certain awareness of its status as a great founder country and a historical net contributor of the European community, and, even more importantly, of the second manufacturing economy of the continent. The crisis bites, we all know, but no one in Europe can really say it is immune now, no one can say that they have an exclusive recipe to fight the recession. On the contrary, to date, the prevalence of rigour based solely on budgetary discipline has led to choices that have proved inappropriate and to incapacious measures, which are not, however, appropriate to the gravity of a situation that should have imposed, especially to those who are stronger and therefore called on to lead even more courageously, perhaps more far-sightedly. Farsightedness and courage are what we must ask our partners, what she will surely say for our country at the European Council, starting with Germany, whose horizon must certainly be wider and more perspective than its own electoral deadlines, which certainly cannot orient our domestic policies, let alone those of Europe. In order to take up Senator Monti's words, Germany must not even be stingy in opening up some intellectual umbrellas in terms of growth and employment and that development which is as important as it is consubstantial with the existence of Europe itself. Italy, despite a public debt unfortunately from primacy (negative) in Europe, which also derives from a distant political and administrative legacy, is today part of the small number of virtuous countries of the Eurozone (6 out of 17), in line with the constraint of balance of the budget already in 2013. A bond that the Italian Government and Parliament even wanted to insert directly into the Constitution, giving in advance body and substance to the famous European golden rule. From no capital, therefore, even from Berlin, there are those who can today reproach us for not having committed ourselves without savings, for not having made sacrifices, for not having done what was possible to return to the difficult and sometimes bumpy European tracks, even at the expense - let us be honest - of our consumption and our productivity. If anything, errors in the adoption of a policy that is too strict have been induced by the blockade of the northern countries, in a European context that is not really federal yet. Italy first, with Silvio Berlusconi, President of the Council, already in the years before the crisis and, even more so, after it has spread in all its devastating vastness, has signalled to Europe the need for a flexible, intelligent, ongoing, continuous interpretation of the Treaties, taking into account above all the so-called relevant factors, including exceptional events, significant crisis, aggregate debt, structural reforms implemented by the individual countries. This certainly does not mean denying the agreements entered into, let alone wanting to change them on our own. It also means assigning, from time to time, to the specific circumstances, to the perceptive provisions, which fall within the individual laws of the Member States, the function of equal system adaptors, oriented to the common economy and development. The Stability Pact was, and is, a pact for stability and growth. And this last part we can never forget. For Italy this is all the more essential, I would say vital, because the productive fabric is not already constituted by multinationals, by economic giants, but by something very significant that has been prototype, and it is model, formula studied all over the world: a vast capillary network, familiar, dynamic, studded in a myriad of small, indeed micro- and medium-sized enterprises, that fight against a tax pressure disproportionate and destructive, against an exaggerated cost of energy, against the competitive disadvantage of a late and therefore denied justice, against a bureaucracy still too cast, also in Europe, and against what to date is the public enemy number one of our companies (as she said in her statements): the credit crunch, credit. Problems that are certainly not only Italian, even if we unfortunately have them to a large extent in a monopoly regime, and that cannot be solved just by looking at Italy. That is why we believe in his firm intentions and trust in the indications that commit the Government to a close confrontation, to an assertive negotiation with the European institutions, to the strengthening of instruments and therefore, for us, to the realization of reforms, which will not be at zero cost, that carry out an anti-cyclical function, that is expansive, so as to put at the centre the two absolute priorities that she has highlighted: the resumption of growth and employment, also and above all youth. The PdL Group is ready to support the Government in its request to allocate additional resources from the European Social Fund against youth unemployment. It is ready to welcome a clear stance in Brussels to extend the current opportunities for access to credit through the micro and medium-sized enterprises Guarantee Fund; to trigger a reform process of European governance itself, as well as of the European Central Bank, which should approach the requirements and prerogatives of central institutions, which in countries such as the United States, Britain and Japan not only keep inflation and prices under control, but carry forward courageous procyclical policies for employment and growth and monetary oxygenation practices of the real economy. We agree that in order to honour the European commitments Italy will have to continue selective screening of public expenditure and above all give breath to families to resume to consume, thus increasing the productivity of enterprises and therefore old and new jobs. But the priority of the priorities must be the drastic reduction of the tax burden, to be achieved by compressing unproductive public expenditure, the infamous intermediate costs, and reducing the voracity of the state even in its territorial articulations. We are also convinced that the Italian Presidency of the European Union in the second half of 2014, which she has rightly and in advance (but not too much), can and indeed must be marked as a constituent semester, with the ambition to move Italy and other European countries forward along a complex path, but which has the objective of federal Europe ahead of it. The Party of Freedom has long been calling for a decisive change of pace in Italy and Europe, in economic policies for development and competitiveness, in the face of the most serious and profound recession of the last century. It is in the eyes of all that the austerity policies of these years have not represented the cure of a continent in crisis, but have aggravated its disease. The PdL is convinced that this is precisely the time to shock Europe. I appreciate the metaphor of the false plan and the mountain. It is all true: est modus in rebus, and there is time to implement individual measures and projects. But it is time for Europe to start again on the basis of a common commitment to work and growth. Only in this way, at the end of the tunnel, can we find what today seems to be a rather remote mirage: the United States of Europe. A mirage, but certainly also an evocative outcome, because Europe cannot be a vase of stone between iron giants and transform itself, from a great dream to be realized, into a burden to be paid. We repeat this: no more rigour, no more austerity, or Europe dies. The historic area of free trade has been dominated by monetary union, fiscal compliance, and now, with some difficulty, the banking union must be established. But as President Letta reminds us, the route is rough, also because some leading state, prisoner of short-term ties and local interests, shows not to like it to the end. Italy has the cards in order, it has the right proposals, it has the humility but also the awareness of its role and, I add, it goes to Brussels with a young President of the Council, who knows Europe well, leading a government that we wanted political, not quietly technical, just to be a strong negotiator of our interests and a strong guardian of our rights. We are sure that President Letta remembers it well: in Europe, with him, he will have the whole country. And, of course, our group of parliamentarians will sometimes also be seriously and constructively critical towards this European Union, but certainly European and precisely for this reason determined to have effective and assertive solutions on the future of the Union. And on these three pillars, which are as many commitments made in front of the Chambers, we will not be able to make discounts. President Letta, you represent the whole country, a great country, proud of your people, your culture, your industrial strength, your entrepreneurial inventiveness, your humanity, your will to succeed. With our best wishes, Mr President, go to Brussels and stand up for us! [[Applause from the PDL, PD and LAG groups and Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u64	Martini (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of the motion for a majority resolution because there are at least three very important aspects in this regard. First of all, the European Council will take the issues of youth employment first, as you said, and the implementation of the Growth and Jobs Pact, not proposed in contrast to the necessary consolidation, but with a strong, visible profile, more credible than previous generic statements. This is a government success. Because a turning point on the issues of growth and employment is the premise and condition of other goals, even in an internal key. It is true that work creates it by companies and not by laws, but it is also true that without the impetus of targeted and effective public policies it is difficult for companies to try us; also because there is also a quality to be found on the issues of growth and employment. The resolution says so, talking about sustainability, innovation, knowledge, and we agree. The motion for a resolution then takes seriously the recommendations made to Italy after the excessive deficit procedure has been closed. That is the second reason why we voted in favour. We must face up to the challenges there; which does not mean passively accepting everything without playing an active role. Today we must avoid two mistakes of opposite sign which we witnessed, for example, at the time of the difficult debate on the ECB's letter, in the summer of two years ago. On the one hand, consider those indications as dogmas, make them our whole strategy, almost trustworthy. On the other hand, cry out for interference or try to escape the challenges and commitments that the European scenario proposes to us. Neither of these two routes is fruitful. The test must be accepted, albeit arduous and long-term. The issue of rehabilitation is actually ours, it is not imposed on us by anyone. And our responsible autonomy can be exercised on how the objective is achieved, on the quantity of equity, quality and national cohesion we will be able to introduce into budgetary adjustment maneuvers. The clearer and more credible will be the commitment to close the endless debt season, the greater will be our space for the needs of flexibility and adaptation to our national needs. The third key point of the motion for a resolution is the call for a stronger political union, on the economic, fiscal and banking field and on that of overall institutional and political solidarity. Without reducing this heavy deficit of politics and vision (as you told us this evening), our task will be very difficult. Europe is the place where the inseparable link between social and institutional, economic and institutional is best grasped. The citizens are asking for rapid and incisive action, we cannot respond only with new constitutional architectures, unless - and this is the case with Europe, you said - the connection between institutional reform and the strong impact of economic and social measures is clear. Anyone who can explain and implement this link will have an undoubted advantage in terms of political and consensus. Europe, President Letta, is the place where politics and politics meet virtuously, as you like to say. Politics understood as vision, as a project of the future; policies seen as instruments, as relational systems, as alliances between institutional and social actors. Two final points, Mr President, before we close. The first is this: the European theme should belong to the narrow circle of heritage shared by the country, its political class all, its broadest leadership group. Without the issue of exaggerating, I would say that it should be, without disfiguring, along with constitutional and electoral rules. In this case, I mean a general acceptance of European politics, its values and its rules, that is, the framework that defines the "how it works," the rules within which we move. The majority principle as set out in the EU Treaties applies, of course, to what is to be done, political and policy choices. Today - and for a few years - there is the sign of the right and right-wing on European policies, because right-wing and centre-right parties are predominantly prevalent within the 27 Member States and in the European Parliament: it is normal and fair to acknowledge and acknowledge this. In the past there was a different sign and so it could also be in the future. However, allowing Europe to live and weigh, even before its political choices and majorities, is an issue that concerns us all, because the European model must function as such, its raison d'être must exist before the political battles on content: and this is not yet a peacefully acquired fact. My last consideration brings us closer to the Italian situation and is that the Europe theme is the politically and programmatically more valuable one to measure the ability of a policy of the 'larga' intended to face the difficult challenges we face. On this subject we have measured in the past, among the forces that today support the Government, culturally and qualitatively significant distances, perhaps more than on other issues. They may seem to be in the process of being overcome, with the common view on the inadequacy of austerity policy as it has been expressed in Europe. For example, in many parts today we read positive quotations from Paul Krugman's ideas, after for years he has been ridiculed at every theory that did not come from the unique thinking of the Chicago School. But the right criticism of the limits of one-way austerity does not single-handedly define a policy, it does not outline a strategic horizon, it does not itself alliance in Europe. It can lead, for example, to take seriously the theme of rigor and recovery, pure cum wheat salt or with the back straight, or instead to relativize its value, letting us understand that things are not so serious and that we can escape the principle of reality. It can call for new public policies, smart and non-invasive, or instead advocate new deregulations, new conflicts between state and market. It can call for a stronger and more ambitious EU budget, which will shift the large investment frameworks to Community level, or instead call for it to be reduced and given as viable the renationalisation of important pieces of policy. It can suggest the construction of new, dialectical but fruitful relations between Italy, Germany, France, Great Britain and Spain, or instead propose arms of diplomatic iron with Chancellor Merkel or with the Commission. Finally, it can lead us to challenge old and new populisms, which feed on the difficulties of Europe, or rather smooth their hair, since in a year's time we are voting for the European Parliament. Among these different conceptions we play the real political game today. It must be conducted seriously on the value, cultural and political plane, in my opinion in two ways: on the ground of ideas and programmes, with the full and legitimate deployment of the autonomy and initiative of every political force; and within the Government, finding the synthesis as more dynamic and effective, things that we find today in the motion for a majority resolution. In conclusion, the Democratic Party will play its part, we will not hide diversity, we will present our overall plan, but we will work constructively and actively so that the Government and its political synthesis can produce good results, for Italy and for Europe as a whole. Thank you, President Letta, for your work. [[Applause from the PD, PDL, SCPI, LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u65	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall then proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution... Barani (GAL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] He wanted to precede me, Senator Barani; so we assign the request to Senator Barani. But I still have to say what I put to the vote. So you ask no matter what, Senator Barani. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Barani, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bitonci and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2) by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 258 Senators voting 257 Majority 129 Favorable 202 Contrari 53 Absent 2]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We ask for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 2 by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 255 Senators voting 254 Majority 128 Favorables 54 Contrari 200]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We ask for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator De Cristofaro and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 3 by electronic ballot at the same time. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 254 Senators voting 253 Majority 127 Favorables 53 Contrari 200]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u68	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, I rise to point out that I was unable to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u69	The Presidency takes note of this, Senator Giovanardi. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senator Calderoli. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 254 Senators voting 253 Majority 127 Favorable 244 Contrars 3 Absent 6]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the LN-Aut and PdL Groups.]] Resumption of the debate on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u72	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to point out that I was wrong to vote and that mine wanted to be a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u73	The Presidency takes note of this, Senator Stephen. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We ask for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Zanda and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution by electronic ballot. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 255 Senators voting 253 Majority 127 Favorable 204 Contrars 49]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u76	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to point out that the electronic voting system has not worked and I would like it to remain with the acts that Senator Petraglia and I, who had the same problem, voted against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u79	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr. President... [[Several senators leave the Chamber. Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u80	Unfortunately, the first of the senators who intervene at the end of the session is a little sacrificed. But be patient and intervene equally.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u81	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will ask you for a few more moments to close. My speech is intended to bring a particular situation to the attention of the House and to ask for its important interest in this matter. It happens that today in the municipal administrations we are faced with extremely serious social problems, with more regulatory and regulatory difficulties. We all know what we are talking about when reference is made to the ISEE: the indicator of the equivalent economic situation. It happens that in the municipality of Cairate - I have heard of it directly from the mayor - a paradoxical situation has arisen: in the same family unit lives together a person with disabilities who asks in this case the municipality to be able to be inserted in a nursing home, and has no support from the family, despite the family members, in this case the closest relatives or the brother, enjoy a decidedly high income. This is a paradoxical situation, in which the municipality has to bear considerable costs, which exceed 10,000 euros per year, while the family is totally disinterested. There are circumstances in which this disinterest is due to bad family relationships and others in which it is the result of cleverness. This is a paradoxical situation, however, which occurs in all the municipalities, and we believe that it should therefore be brought to the attention of the House and the President, so that he can be an interpreter of it to the Commissions and the Government. There is a new ISEE instrument, approved by the State-Regions Conference. However, the path has not yet been completed and will not be completed until it is brought to the attention of the Houses of Parliament, so that these indices can be revised and the determinations of the ISEE can also be considered as ascending, descending or related in this case. This is not merely a formal aspect, in order to give people who need it the right to enjoy services without others taking advantage of it, at their disadvantage. This is what we have seen in a municipality, Mr President and Minister, and it is a problem that we ask for to be dealt with quickly, so that that path which has already seen the approval of the State-Regions Conference arrives quickly in this House. I repeat, those who have the right must be able to enjoy the services, and above all we must ensure that those who need to be truly helped, and those who are smart can not find space and, as happened in some cases, be warned and accompanied at the door. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u84	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to bring to your attention and to that of my fellow Members an event that represents a defeat for civil society and for the fight against crime. In a territory that for years has been marked by the strong presence of criminal organizations, such as the one between the Municipalities of Casal di Principe, San Cipriano d'Aversa and Casapesenna, in the province of Caserta, the presence of an operational core of the Forces of Order represents an authentic bulwark within a serious strategy of fight against the Camorristic power. As a result of a special decree, dated 24 May 1996, to make the protection of order and public security more effective in the agro aversano, the permanent operational post of the State Police of Casapesenna was established, depending on the headquarters of Caserta. Over the years, the staff of the operational fixed position of the State Police of Casapesenna, operating on a territory with a very high criminal density, has demonstrated, numbers at hand, high professionalism both in the prevention and in the real contrast to the traffic of drugs, to the building abuse, to the traffic of weapons and ammunition of war and to all the activities that over the years have flooded the coffers of the powerful camorristic clans led by figures to us all known, such as Francesco Schiavone, Michele Zagaria, Antonio Iovine. The 24 units, of which only one inspector, in service at the fixed operating post have received extensive recognitions for the work carried out, work that have made available to the investigators, as expert connoisseurs of the territory and the social fabric on which often extends that dense criminal network able to escape also from the controls of other police institutions. Unfortunately, however, precisely in these hours, due to the measures of containment of public expenditure arranged by the Monti Government, the Ministry of the Interior, with decree dated 3 June 2013, has ordered the closure of the said operating fixed post of Police of Casapesenna for related reasons, it is read in the draft "to the need to optimize the use of available resources, in terms of economicity, efficiency and effectiveness, maintaining unchanged the operational capacity of the State Police on the territory concerned." The decision to close the post of Police has provoked a very strong protest from the citizen, who has immediately worked organizing a petition signed by thousands of people, as this decision would represent the loss of the only garrison of legality in this municipality that seeks with all the forces to fight organized crime. The same magistrate of the DDA of Naples Catello Maresca, who coordinated the operations that led to the capture, precisely in a bunker in Casapesenna, of the boss Michele Zagaria, expressed his dissent for a decision so bad. I will therefore ask a question on this matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u85	The Presidency shares its concern, which will be forwarded to the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u88	DI GIORGI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking briefly only to remind you of something that will be read in the newspapers tomorrow: I am referring to a celebration attended by the President of the Republic. Today, in fact, the National Research Council (CNR) celebrates 90 years of life, therefore in the context of the Innovation Day at CNR in Piazzale Aldo Moro in Rome was celebrated this event with the Minister Maria Chiara Carrozza, the President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano and the President of the Senate Pietro Grasso: a century of history for an adventure started in 1923 by CNR, which at its foundation had as its first president the famous mathematician Vito Volterra, which I remember because it was born from his idea. As far as we are concerned, even today President Letta told us and convinced us once again how important development is and how useful scientific research is in our country and within Europe. During the year the CNR will celebrate its 90th anniversary with a program of initiatives that will combine scientific research, innovation, relationship with the territories and especially with the world of entrepreneurship and public administration, renewing what have always been the guidelines of the CNR inspired by the principles of autonomy, interdisciplinaryity and internationality. It is therefore an indispensable opportunity to open a moment of reflection and discussion on the values of scientific research, on its importance for economic and social life. We must never consider investing in research as an expense, but simply as a way of developing our country within Europe. Italian research is of high quality, very high quality; too many young people still go abroad (which is good), but they do not return because our conditions are not competitive for a young person or for a person who wants to dedicate his life to research; therefore, we have a lot to do. Today the president of CNR Nicolais has remembered how much the CNR has supported and favored the modernization, the creativity, the social and cultural growth, the competitiveness and the productivity of the Country in these ninety years, along with the dialogue with enterprises, institutions and scientific community. Therefore, as the Minister has said today, we must focus on knowledge, because it is only with the knowledge and development of our intelligences that we can still believe in the future. Mr President, I would ask you to be able to attach the full text of my speech to the report. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u89	The Presidency authorizes it to do so and joins the homage to the CNR in remembrance of William Marconi and the other personalities who have presided over him.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u92	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment on the serious statements I heard in this House this morning from Senator Barani on the earthquake in Lunigiana. Connecting to the recent seismic event in Tuscany, the colleague said: I am sure that the Massa Public Prosecutor will not open files against science, as happened at L'Aquila, you will not condemn those who did not foresee earthquakes, because certain sentences should not be respected, like that of L'Aquila, where the greatest scientists were accused of not being able to prevent earthquakes, doing an image damage to Italy immeasurable. I apologise, but I think these statements by Senator Barani are very serious and unacceptable. The judiciary and its judgments must be respected, ladies and gentlemen, and Senator Barani, who I regret has left. The Prosecutor of L'Aquila, in justifying the judgment condemning the members of the Commission, states that the same components should have assessed the risk on the basis of their actual knowledge and calibrated correct information. In practice, the Public Prosecutor challenged them with an inadequate risk assessment and with inadequate information. It was recognized by other volcanologists, in the process, that days before the earthquake there were geophysical parameters that suggested that the swarm was evolving, a concrete sign of the fact that scientists and technicians expected a concrete evolution of the phenomenon. I mean, the risk was, of course, and the population had to be informed, not uninformed. They were called to inform; they did not: the role of scientists was political, and not scientific, in the activity of relaxation and calming the population, to the point that the citizens, despite the shock of magnitude 5.2, at 23:45, went to sleep, giving even chamomile to their children, as evidenced by the themes written by my pupils, which I gave to the lawyers engaged in the investigation. The sentence had nothing to do with the earthquake forecast tout court. The victims were the martyrs of a society that does not protect, instead allowing politics to enter into roles that do not compete with it and that would require freedom of judgment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u95	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, remaining colleagues [[Laughter]] , the President-in-Office of the Council today, explaining to us the programme he will present to the European Council, stressed, among the main points, the definition of measures to promote competitiveness, employment and growth. I believe that we can all agree that we need to have an impact on these aspects in all ways, and we look forward to the beginning of the parliamentary process of the so-called 'do' and'simplification' decrees. Among the actions to be taken as soon as possible, because at zero cost, capable of creating savings and quick and easy feasibility, there is certainly the removal of bureaucratic obstacles, which freeze the private initiative and the economy and slow our exit from the crisis that is tormenting us. In this respect, many cases of easy solution, and certainly my Group, which has already spoken with some of the DEF's amendments, will continue to give its support when the time comes. Today, in view of my specific skills, as well as the fact that there is a very close-to-date bureaucratic obligation, i.e. 30 June, I would like to put to your attention an obligation which rests like a sword of Damocles on many competent doctors and which is shown in an emblematic example of the uselessness of some bureaucratic constraints, poorly conceived and conducted, which actually result in a brake in the world of work and an obstacle to more virtuous paths. I am talking about Article 40, and its annex 3B, Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008. The Government has intended to make changes aimed at simplification also in the field of work, especially aimed at removing obligations of a purely formal nature with little relevance in terms of actual result on the levels of health and safety protection. The simplifications concern mainly the corporate obligations relating to the figures of the employer, managers and in some cases also of the RSPP, of the representative of the same workers, but incomprehensible has not been taken into account the figure of the competent doctor, holder of fundamental tasks and obligations for the protection of the health of the workers, to which the law at present also attributes bureaucratic burdens characterized by extreme difficulty of application and of dubious validity and effectiveness in terms of result, such as the obligation provided for in Article 40 and its Annex 3B of Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008, according to which the doctor... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia, please finish your speech. FUCKSIA (M5S). I shall conclude quickly by asking for the written text of the remainder of my speech to be appended to the Minutes of this sitting. According to this article, the competent doctor is required each year to transmit to each company of any sector and size (penuses the administrative penalty from 1,000 to 4,000 euros), to the supervisory services a series of unnecessary information because already in possession of the public administration... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator Fucksia, but your time is up. FUCKSIA (M5S). I'm sorry, but I'm asking you to give me one more moment, because it's very important. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The speeches at the end of the sitting, however, have rules. FUCKSIA (M5S). Among other things, to date, the National Information System for Workplace Prevention (SINP), provided for by Article 8 of Legislative Decree No. 81 that I have previously cited and necessary premise for a rational and usable collection of epidemiological data, is not yet active, so in fact this data... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u96	The Presidency authorizes you to attach the text of the remaining part of your speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. The speeches at the end of the sitting should be included in the planned spaces, otherwise there are other moments of debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u97	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-50.ana.u98	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, June 26, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.22 p.m.
