ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pizzetti, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 26 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u4	The next item is the communication by the President of the Council of Ministers. After the speech of the President of the Council of Ministers, the debate will take place, the timing of which has been divided between the Groups for a total of 2 hours and 30 minutes, as set out by the Conference of Leaders. I note that the President of the Council of Ministers' communications take place live on television. At the end of the debate, the President of the Council of Ministers' reply and any explanations of vote will be followed - again on television. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Letta.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the life of the nations, the mistake of not being able to grasp the moment can be irreparable. These are the words of Luigi Einaudi that I call here today: I call them here in Parliament, before the country, before all of you, to come immediately to the heart of the matter. Italy runs a risk that could be fatal, irremediable. To avoid this risk, to seize or not to take the moment, depends on us, depends on the choices we will take in this House, depends on a yes or a no. There is a warning, a more recent warning, equally solemn, that I want to remember here. Just over five months ago the President who once again goes my, our, deep gratitude, for what he has done and is doing for Italy - President Giorgio Napolitano -... [[Extended applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and some Senators from the PDL and LAG groups. Senators of PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE stand up]] . . invited the Chambers to offer a witness of awareness and national cohesion, of the will to give true answers to the problems of the country. He invited all those who had just elected him a second time to the Presidency of the Republic - a unique fact in our history - to a step of dignity, of attachment to institutions, of love for Italy. That warning was received, even then, by a passionate acclaim of the majority of those present in these classrooms. This warning was followed in the following months by the Government's commitment, with all the strength and the greatest possible determination, to build tangible solutions to the real problems of people, to try to foster a renewed confidence in politics, in its ability to reform Italy and also, more serious problem, to reform itself, to restore to the world the image of a young, dynamic, reliable country. The members of the government have shown loyalty. Everyone, while aware of the restricted space in which we were moving, has worked, in the Council of Ministers and in the work of Ministers, to build effective policies together, without sacrificing their political identity or their own biased convictions, but working with a true constructive spirit. We have made progress, unthinkable even until a few months ago, in mutual understanding. We have faced ourselves on a higher, nobler horizon, that of the general interest of Italians. And the Italians, in the vast majority, tell us, I would say screaming to us, that they can no longer put on stage by blood and arena and of the slaying themselves on everything, but then nothing changes. It changes if we want it to change. It changes if we prepare ourselves first for courage. It changes if we are solid to the point of not fearing that the encounter with the opponent dirty or pollute our reputation: only those who have a weak identity fear confrontation with the reasons of others. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI, GAL and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] I myself, working closely with the Ministers, with the parliamentarians who are militant in other parties compared to the one in which I militate, am able today to appreciate and testify to the passion that lies in all the sectors of Italian politics, sectors that are not my own, sectors that have given an example of the overall vitality of the system, to which I want to bear witness and which, I want to stress, represent one of the central points of the debate that we are holding. Only those who do not have broad shoulders end up hostage to the fear of dialogue, even when dialogue is virtuous and only aimed at the common good. The first forum for discussion is certainly that of the institutions. For this reason, in every act of the Government, in every initiative, national and international, in every passage, even delicate or painful, I have necessarily involved the Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies. Personally, with today, I have responded to the work of the Government, myself, in Parliament, 15 times in just over 150 days. I have restored the instrument of question time to the House after years and years of absence; I have introduced it to this House for the first time in the Senate. Because this is the place of popular sovereignty. Because respect and love for institutions are intrinsic to my culture, and constituent of my personal and political history. Because the government that I lead was born in Parliament, and if it has to die, it must do so here: in Parliament, in the light of the sun, in front of all Italians. This transparency, with the linearity of the political action underlying it, is the best way to deal with even the most complex and seemingly inseparable mixes between different and conflicting issues. This is the case - I certainly do not intend to go around it - of the judicial case involving Silvio Berlusconi. The life of the government and the decision of the Council of the Senate's parliamentary elections and immunities on its decadence as a senator have overlapped in recent weeks in a growing seizure that has increasingly conditioned public debate. A crescendo culminated last Wednesday in the announcement of the resignation by the MPs of the PdL, arrived just as I intervened, on behalf of all Italy, before the General Assembly of the United Nations. Well, exactly a week ago there was an unsustainable situation that led me here today to trace before you the separation between that judicial issue and the activity of an executive who was born to serve Italy. The two floors could not and could not be superimposed. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups. Ironic applause from Senator Bondi.]] BONDI (PdL). Bravo! Bravo! Mr LETTA, President of the Council of Ministers. Our Democratic Republic is based on the rule of law, the principle of legality, the separation of powers. In a democratic state the sentences are respected, apply... BONDI (PdL). Shame on you! Shame on you! [[Comments from PD and SCpI Groups.]] , President of the Council of Ministers. ...the right to an effective defense, without laws or treatments, neither ad personam nor contra personam remains intact. A right which must be recognized and granted to a Member of Parliament as to any other Italian citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, this Government in particular, can only continue to live and do well if it is convincing in the definition of the programme and its implementation, in a real new pact, day after day, with the perspective always focused on the real problems of people, families, businesses, our community. Everything else - daily threats, instrumentally agitated toxic polemics - generates chaos, discomfort, confusion in citizens. Certainly nothing good and healthy leads to the management of the public thing, all the more in a season of serious complexity such as the one we are experiencing. Over and over again in recent months you have listened to me weave in Italy and abroad the praise of stability: stability understood as absolute value, to be pursued and nourished now after now; stability put so blatantly at risk. This has not always been the case in Italian history. In the very first phase of the Republic, from 1946 to 1968, we had an unthinkable political stability today. In those years, from 1946 to 1968, three Presidents of the Council ruled most of that time. The benefits of the stability of that time are known to all Italians; they have had consequences: reconstruction from the ruins of war, economic boom, an average growth of 5 percent per year, a public debt that at that time was well below 50% of GDP. Then, between 1968 and 1992 there were as many as 24 governments; growth slowed down, electoral consensus was gained by widening the strings of the State stock exchange, making more than doubling the public debt. The next phase, the current one, should have been the season of democracy accomplished and ruler. It wasn't, ahinoi! From 1992 to today there have been even 14 governments. For a merciless confrontation, in Germany there were only three Chancellors at the same time. The 14 of us, the three of us! Another spread, to be seen; another spread that weighs heavily in comparison with the great European democracies. It is evident to anyone that growth policies, which need a long breath so that those who implement them can reap the benefits, are only possible with a reasonable temporal perspective and with stable governments. In the short horizon there is no courage because at the first costs - and reforms are costly, as well as often painful in terms of consensus - the government is sent home. Next and then next again, or everyone at the polls. This is one of the reasons - certainly not the only one - that explains the lack of growth and the surge in public debt. Behind, to see, there is another great lack, that of politics: there is the absence of strong choices, there is the obsession of the present, of consensus at all costs, here and now. Today we are in danger of finding ourselves in a similar situation. It is not the opposition forces, who legitimately oppose an executive who do not share: it is the forces of the majority that are in a fibrillation that could cause the crisis to fall. And a crisis would mean, once again, contracting the horizons again, postponing further measures in favour of businesses, workers, unemployed people (unemployed young people and not) who are just waiting to be helped to get out of the crisis. It would mean sitting again on the bench of defendants in Europe and in the world: incorrigible Italy, Italy that never learns from its mistakes, the unfinished eternal that panics the markets and triggers concern. This would also mean, today, abandoning the indispensable reform of politics and institutions. Reform to which all the forces of majority solemnly committed themselves in April: never again porcellum, never again public funding to parties, never more storture of equal bicameralism. Today, in a short time, we can really reform politics: the measures put in place by the Government in recent months are now before Parliament. If quickly discussed and approved, they can really be a turning point in the relationship with a public opinion that, we must all be aware of, does not give more credit to the promises, does not wait anymore. The waiting time is up. In the event of a crisis, instead, we risk slipping towards elections that can lead to an adjustment in the percentages between one party and the other, but that - we know - would risk delivering the country to ungovernability for the umpteenth time. We would probably still find ourselves, after the elections, to get out of this broad understanding, because with this electoral law, with this bicameral order, with this political system divided into four or five coalitions, the next elections would risk not producing a clear majority. On the reforms today the direction is set. In these five months, in advance of the timetable we had set ourselves and decided together in Parliament, the Committee of Wise Men has completed an ambitious and modern, balanced reform of the institutions. No twists, no coups, no attacks on the fundamental principles of the Constitutional Charter: directions to change for the better and finally make Italian democracy work. On the other hand, how can we defend equal bicameralism? How can we not reduce the number of Members of Parliament? How can we fail to see the obstacles and distortions generated by the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution of 2001? Today, as I said, we are in a position to close ahead of the initial forecasts and to complete the reform process in 12 months from today. This time we can do it; we can build functioning institutions and, first of all, write, as is happening here in the Senate, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (this is a typically parliamentary matter and the Government is respectful of Parliament's initiative), an electoral law able to return the right of choice to citizens, to hand over to the country winners and defeated, to put those who win in the conditions of real governance. Out of controversy, for the sake of the citizens, and with the involvement of all political forces, inside and outside the majority. The Government, therefore, intends to actively support and accompany the parliamentary path - which today, with the urgency procedure in place here in the Senate, is a concrete procedure - of amending the current electoral law, both in anticipation of a possible decision of the Constitutional Court, and in order to avoid the risk that the country can return to the vote with the current law, which deprives citizens of the right to choose the elected and which leads to different majorities, as happens this time, in the two Chambers. A path of changes that is not at odds with the awareness that the electoral law will then be revised according to the choices of constitutional change in the matter of forms of government and bicameralism. Ladies and gentlemen, that we can do this, I have said so and told everyone I have met over the past few weeks. The same applies to the reform of the institutions, which is all the more true for the economy and society. After eight quarters of contraction, the Italian economy stabilized and started towards a gradual recovery. We have a nightmare behind us, an unprecedented period of recession since the Second World War: a recession that follows the "lost decade." With the crisis, Italy lost more than eight percentage points of GDP and more than one million jobs: a cataclysm in the economy, in society, which led to concern, discomfort and despair in Italian families. It is to them, before anyone else, that we must account for our actions; it is to them that the consequences of today's vote could cause irreparable damage. In order to avoid this, in just a few days, we have the opportunity to make a new economic and industrial policy focusing on three major priorities: the strengthening of the current recovery, the substantial reduction of taxes on labour and workers, a drastic intervention on the factors limiting the competitiveness of the economy. Since its establishment, the Government has invested more than 12 billion euros, four of them on work, the integration fund, social shock absorbers and the fight against poverty. It has done so in constant and fruitful dialogue with the union and with all the social partners, and it has been good news the joint document on growth presented a month ago by entrepreneurs and trade unions, on which we are ready to confront today. Our long-established goal is an increase in GDP of 1% for 2014 and higher in subsequent years. The law of stability is an opportunity to achieve these goals and show the country that change is taking place. This does not mean, of course, that we intend to back down by a millimetre in the process of public finance consolidation, partly because any loosening of policies is heavily reflected in the financing costs of our debt. The consolidation has enabled us, thanks to the sacrifices of all Italians and the actions of previous Executives and this Government, to get out of the EU's excessive deficit infringement procedure at the end of June; it has finally allowed us to no longer be under consideration. That is why we want and can confirm, with the seriousness that is required of us and of which we certainly have, that we will respect our commitments with Europe for 2014: nominal debt must remain and will remain within the 3% threshold; structural debt must tend and will tend rapidly towards balance; the weight of debt must be reduced and reduced. In the immediate future, the Government will take the necessary measures to bring back the debt of 2013 by 3%. In these five months, ladies and gentlemen, we have supported the economy in the first place through the strong acceleration in the payment of public administration debts to businesses: a path started during the Monti Government, which we had undertaken to speed up. We have done it and documented it, week after week; to date, 2 October, 12 billion euros have arrived to companies, with an acceleration week after week. We will complete it in 2014, and even in this case there is no need to remember that the possibility of a weak government would slow down or even prevent the payment to be completed. We will then intervene to reduce the costs of electricity bills and launch industrial policies in the sector; we will continue specific interventions in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, at the heart of our economic and business system. Over the last few months, we have also launched laws to support eco-building, furniture, energy efficiency, infrastructure and initiatives to improve the quality of public expenditure and support domestic demand. These actions will continue in the last quarter of the year and in 2014. I do not intend here to draw up the list: it is too long. But we have been far from the Government of the postponement. I say this because I want to make it clear that today Il Sole 24 Ore has an insert dedicated to the theme of the works for the home, for the infrastructure, for the interventions eco-compatible, anti-seismic, for the contrast of interests, which makes it possible that when you ask for an invoice there is on the one hand the interest to obtain it and on the other hand the interest of those who actually perform a function to do it and do everything in the light of the sun. It is the proof here that those who speak of the government of referral are here demonstrating the concrete facts that have been put on the field in these five months to relaunch the economy, jobs and activities of our country. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Naccarato]] And to those who speak of "Governments of referral" I address the invitation to ask the beneficiaries of the hundreds of measures put in place from April onwards whether or not they share this perception: to the precarious of the public administration, to the women victims of abuse, to the exodus for individual dismissal, to the Cassaintegrati, to the teachers of support, to the assigners of the scholarships, to the operators of the culture, to the workers of the lyric foundations, to those who are, in fact, restructuring home, to those who yesterday same in three hours have made a click - 5,500 new jobs that have been created for the young people - to the small entrepreneurs beneficiaries of the new Sabatini law, to the children who until yesterday were legitimate, natural, adoptive children and today are children, children and enough. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and Mixed Groups.]] And I could go on. Instead of sending back, let's talk about being serious. Serious because we have dealt with the problems in these months with immediate solutions when possible. I am still thinking of the Cassa Integrazione, the reform to speed up civil justice, the home plan for young couples and for the precarious, the law against feminicide, the right to study, culture, the school building that is divided, the unblocking of the yards, the first interventions to fight poverty, ecobonus, the decarbonization of so much work for young people. But when immediate solutions were not objectively viable, we chose the path of patient construction of reforms destined to last, certainly beyond our own mandate. It is a choice that I claim, yes: it is a choice of seriousness. This same method will guide us in the near future: selectivity, attention, care for public affairs, without any anxiety dictated by pressure from public debate. The Stability Act will extend the scope of the measures for growth, move the emphasis of budgetary policy towards reducing expenditure and reducing taxes, in line with what we have done so far, confirming, also in tax matters, and also in the field of home taxation, the route of commitments. Precisely because we do not want new taxes, we want to put the overall level of public expenditure at the heart of the budgetary action approach for 2014. The process of reviewing public structures and their procedures will contribute to the reduction of public expenditure. I would like this passage to be clear to all of us: there are no easy cuts in expenditure, unless it is understood, but I am sure that no one in this House wants it, to proceed with linear cuts. The revision must therefore be done with care, attention and competence. If we gain confidence, we will ask Dr. Carlo Cottarelli to take on the role of commissioner for the spending review. We believe that it is possible to do an effective review of expenditure in the public administration, ensuring its fundamental functions and protecting the weakest sections of the population. And besides - I mean to claim all the strength - in this 2013 we have achieved so far 1,700 million euros of reduction of public expenditure. Figures, facts, not announcements. In these five months, ladies and gentlemen, I have represented Italy at four international summits (two European Councils, one G8 and one G20). Three of them - three out of four - were at the center of the battle against tax havens in the world. Our contribution has been important for the adoption of decisions that are now binding: the circle is closing around the countries and banks that have allowed in recent years the illegal export of financial capital stolen from the treasury, therefore to the community. The time of the illegally exported capital is therefore running out. There is a historic turning point in the world that we must seize, in order to win legality and Italy can regain resources that will allow, already from the next financial year, to bring down the deficit and achieve our main objective: to lower taxes for the benefit of honest citizens. For this reason I will ask the prosecutor Francesco Greco to update quickly the conclusions of the work carried out last year, in order to allow us to start a plan articulated on the topic of legality and capital abroad. The tax delegation will then give stability and certainty to the tax system, help to make the fight against evasion more systematic and improve the relationship between tax and taxpayers, as well as to allow a periodic review of the overall size and reasons for tax breaks. We want to review the structure of VAT rates, and the introduction of the service tax will also increase the tax liability of the municipalities, according to a very basic principle of "seeing, paying, voting." I would also like to point out - and I want to insist on this point, beyond all the things said, often starting from the wrong information, in recent months, and in these last days in particular - that these five months of government have already led to a first significant tax relief for Italians. To those who still today are controversial on the subject of tax I remind you that thanks to our Government the Italians have paid, in these five months, less taxes than expected for more than 3 billion euros, and these are also facts, they are not referrals. With the law of stability and the related measures we will aim, as I said, at a reduction of the tax burden on the cost of labour in both components: that borne by the employer and that borne by the worker. So, I spell it out well, plus payroll money for the employee, more margins of competitiveness for businesses, reactivation of domestic demand,... [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and AUT groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE)...]] more incentives for the recruitment of permanent workers. And then: tax relief for innovative start-ups; strengthening ACE (the aid for economic growth, put in place by the Monti Government), in order to stimulate the capitalization of companies and investments; launch of an important program of real estate disposals and privatisations and rationalization of subsidiaries, state and local companies. No sale, but fundamental entry of new capital to be more competitive and avoid those relocations that especially in the Northern regions, with the neighbouring and competitive areas of Slovenia, Austria and Switzerland, make the work of our small and medium-sized enterprises complex. Economic action and structural reforms must be closely linked. We must complete the actions already undertaken in the fields of civil justice, regulation and public administration reform. On this track moves the plan Destination Italy, which I personally presented to the world financial community last week. It is a package of certainties with three absolute priorities: to assure foreign investors and our entrepreneurs of the certainty of the tax, essential for the planning of the investments; the certainty of the times, precisely with the reform of the civil justice; the certainty of the rules, for example with the reform of the conference of the services and with a single text on the regulations of the job. More generally, in terms of rules, our work on justice can be based on the important indications contained in the final report of the working group appointed by President Napolitano on 30 March 2013. In this context of appropriate and urgent reforms, there are both the fulfilment of European obligations, beginning with compliance with the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and the need for further measures to address the prison issue, the subject of an announced message from the Head of State to the Chambers and his passionate speech during his last visit to the Neapolitan prison in Poggioreale. Returning to the plan of attraction of the investments "Destination Italy", we started to build it now because the moment when the world will make route on Italy is around the corner. Expo 2015 is around the corner. Woe to consider it just an event: it is the shock of confidence with which we will shake off once and for all that hood of self-harm and minimalism that too often has welcomed our fears. It is an opportunity for the whole of Italy and is, in particular, a great challenge for the North and for the most productive areas of the Country. The theme of the Expo, "Feeding the Planet, Energy for Life," is extraordinary, written precisely thinking of us Italians, the strength of the environment, agriculture, Italian food and wine, who also in the crisis have dragged Made in Italy into the world. Together we can feed Italy that makes the recovery grow every day. In parallel, the fiscal decentralisation must be completed and the remaining acts concerning fiscal federalism must be completed. The government's guidelines are balance of budgets, fiscal responsibility, simplification. We need to move towards a budgetary constraint that is fully consistent with constitutional reform, first of all by building a smarter, more strategic, more industrial and not just accounting internal stability pact, capable of stimulating investment rather than blocking it, both with the aim of creating work at this stage of crisis and because, without investment, there is no innovation, reform and growth. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] We will do so in compliance with the role of the territories, respecting the role of the municipalities, which we must free, and respecting the role of the special self-governments. The resumption of productive activity will reduce unemployment and the widespread conditions of economic hardship. However, it is essential to increase the quantitative and qualitative means of support for the weak sections of the population: employment centres, measures for social inclusion and combating poverty. Millions of people today live in Italy in a situation of extreme vulnerability. There is nothing - really nothing - more urgent and indispensable than to continue, as we have begun to do, to set in motion concrete instruments to mitigate their despair, to prevent it from turning into anger and conflict. In the law of stability we will include support for active inclusion, to help poor families, especially those with minor children, obviously dependent on the testing of means, activation on the labour market and other commitments by the beneficiaries. Having already approved the Social Inclusion Charter in recent months shows that on this ground too, other than referrals: the first answers have arrived, others will come. This, ladies and gentlemen, is valid for the whole country, but it is even more valid for the South. In these first five months we have focused on investment, school, culture and infrastructure for the South. On culture, I insist on the scope of the great plan for Pompeii, today finally able to make it one of the symbols of Italy that returns to invest on its best heritage. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] We have also included the Mezzogiorno target in the new industrial plan of the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, which, overall, provides for investments of up to EUR 95 billion over the three-year period. We must work to ensure territorial continuity at affordable costs, particularly for Sardinia. The unblocking of construction sites has restarted the metro of Naples, the High Speed Naples-Bari, the design of the High Speed up to Reggio Calabria, the highways Agrigento-Caltanissetta and Ragusa-Catania. Again, on the South we want to win the great battle against school dispersal. [[Applause from the PD groups]] and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). We have allocated the first 15 million to ensure that the recruitment of the school beats the recruitment of the street, and that all our children are entitled to the future with education. Because in the South, we know, the intensity of every problem is multiplied to the umpteenth power; because in the South even worse than anger risks being the disillusionment and discouragement of millions of young people, women, first of all; because in the South the devastating impact of the crisis is accompanied by the effect of the revolution perpetually announced and never arrived: the one made of centuries of promises lacking, illusionists, shortcuts; the one that drives the South away from Italy and risks getting Italy away from Europe. As far as Europe is concerned, the coming weeks will be decisive for the European Structural Funds. The programming acts for the new 2014-2020 cycle should be defined, negotiated and approved within the first months of 2014. The resources of the old cycle must be spent absolutely by 2015, under penalty of decommitment. We have a great deal of reconnaissance and rationalization behind us, culminating in the creation of the Agency for Territorial Cohesion, precisely to make the best use of the European funds of today and those that will come. We can't afford to throw a lot of money at the nettles. We are not in a position to waste resources, to waste them again. The resources, all the more in this season, we must use them well and where they really serve to build the future. And I insist on this point: for us Italians culture and education must be the heart of our recovery. We have already begun to give the first sign of reversal of trend with the two decrees of August and September: "culture value" and "education starts again." I'm probably one of the results I'm most proud of. The road here, too, is marked. If you give us confidence, we will pursue it with greater conviction and momentum. Culture and education must be the centre of our restart. [[Applause from the PD, SCP and For Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] Also, and perhaps above all, our future in Europe and the world depends on this. At the G8 and the G20 we worked intensively to support the political resolution of the Syrian drama; this, despite the initial scepticism with which certain interventions were commented. The agreement reached in recent days in New York gives account of our contribution and also reflects the Italian position, on which, moreover, the other European countries have ended up converging: centrality of the United Nations, unequivocal condemnation of the use of chemical weapons, maximum commitment to humanitarian aid for the unprecedented drama of more than 2 million refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 Italy will assume the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, for the only time in this decade. The previous one was in 2003, ten years ago. Next time it'll be in 15 years. 2014 is tomorrow. It is a decisive year, a year in which we cannot afford to silence or lack the voice of Italy. [[Applause from the PD, SCP and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Giovanardi.]] The words "growth" and "work" will be at the center of our semester. It will be the first semester of the new legislature 2014-2019. We will have to make this European legislature the legislative life of growth, after the legislature of retreat and the austerity that we have experienced in Europe since 2009 to date. We will bring to the center of continental attention a careful and supportive management of the phenomenon of migration, starting from the appeal of Pope Francis to Lampedusa. ( [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Senator De Cristofaro]] Europe will finally talk about the Mediterranean. But let us immediately shake off the idea that being in Europe means "doing homework": Europe is not a task, it is a journey of peoples, in which Italy must not put itself behind the board, but act as a guide, because Italy can do so. In recent months, we have shown, ladies and gentlemen, that Italy can play a leading role in the changes in Europe. We have led Europe, with an Italian initiative, to face the great drama of our time: youth unemployment. Today we can and must do more, first and foremost on defence and security and industrial policies, to achieve our manufacturing target of 20% of GDP by 2020, to ensure that a stronger industry is driven by innovation. For this reason too, at the European Council at the end of October we will focus on the development of the Digital Agenda, which is a fundamental issue for Italy's competitiveness and the recovery of the many, too many, North-South divides. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the right to dream of the United States of Europe, for us and especially for our children. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Bignami]] But it's not just dream time anymore. The good battle for Europe, which will mark Europe in the next fifteen years, is now being played, in 2014: as we die of austerity, we can die of shyness, of lack of leadership. We have an ambitious agenda for 2014, on the Italy-Europe route, made up of urgent and indispensable appointments: I am thinking of the implementation of the Youth Guarantee starting from January, with the necessary work on employment centres, and the school building plan with the European Investment Bank. They are Italian and European public policies that are worth over 2 billion euros for our country. Italy can arrive strong and credible in 2014, when we will lead Europe to build it (and tell it) more united, more supportive and closer to the citizens. But there is no influence without credibility. Credibility means tidy accounts, political stability, clear political objectives. We can choose to close ourselves in our own courtyard of internal political struggles, or we can play the attack, committing all our cards to that ever closer union between the peoples of Europe, in which I intend to commit myself in the coming months. Our proof comes now: let us demonstrate to the whole of Europe, with our ambitious semester, that it is no coincidence that the Treaty from which the Treaty from which the Union was to become the Union is precisely the Treaty of Rome, the Treaty signed in Rome, the Treaty signed in Italy. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the country - and I am going to conclude - is exhausted by the thousand conflicts of a policy reduced to continuous cannonism from one front to the other, a policy that is all the more disgusting and immobile, bent on itself, deaf to the true interests of those who are supposed to represent: the Italians. This is the right opportunity to say enough. I appeal to everyone in this House to myself in the first place: enough with the trench policy, let us finally focus only on what we have to do, on the concrete answers that the country is even getting tired of asking us and that it has the full right to claim. The answers that women expect (and I know that our decree against feminicide is important, but it is on the ground of equal opportunities, of the true application of equal opportunities, that we must move in an increasingly incisive way). The answers we have to give on the environment. The answers we have to give to the mafias, to that garrison of public order and to the legality that has been one of the cornerstones of our action in recent months. The answers that pass for further serious investments in school, research, culture and university. Ladies and gentlemen, courage and trust is what I come back to ask you. I appeal to Parliament today, and I appeal to Parliament to do everything: give us confidence in achieving these objectives; give us confidence in everything that has been done and taken place over the last few months. A trust that's not against someone. It is a trust for Italy, a trust for Italians and for Italians, a trust for all those who expect from Parliament, institutions, political words and behaviors on the basis of which to guide their choices and on which to base what we have the duty to give back to our children: hope. On 11 March 1947, a great liberal, Benedetto Croce, addressed his colleagues in the constituent assembly, with the same words that I would like to address to each of you, personally, today, before you decide whether to vote yes or no to trust. He said Benedict Cross: "Each one of us withdraws in his deep conscience and tries not to prepare, with his unmeditated vow, a stinging and shameful remorse." [[Live and sustained applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, Senators Giovanardi and Bruno and from the government benches. The Senators of PD, SCPI and Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE stand up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u6	I say that any motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. I would like to say that a motion for a resolution signed by Senator Calderoli has already been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u7	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today the Government of the Republic is asking the Senate not to interrupt the process begun five months ago. The reasons why this debate was necessary, I believe, have been effectively summarized in that incestuous overlap of deadlines and events. I'm not mad at President Stefano, I'm not mad at the Head of State's passion. If anything, I thought the President of the Senate's imperturbability on these connections seemed too bad in recent months. I will not speak today, on this occasion, about Severino law and its surroundings. But since you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have been told about the right of defence, and therefore of the indispensable listening on the part of every colleague, words that honour that final conclusion with the quote from the Cross, I hope that your Government will have the yes of a Senate in which you no longer say... [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Senator Naccarato]] ..that justice is not a problem! It is no longer said that the rule of law is strong and resolute, except then to receive a warning from Europe that contains a referendum request that the people had already approved when, as well as Marco Pannella, it was by Claudio Martelli. I hope that those who will vote for you will not be those who believe that Nicola Cosentino's 150 days of protective custody have not been unnecessarily ferocious and persecuting. From this point of view, in order to allow democracy to carry out its mechanisms of operation, I am not a fan of the early elections anyway. Good or bad, those referendar questions that I honor to have signed have had more than 500,000 signatures; good or bad, those referendar questions will be an opportunity for quiet debate, no less than the intransigent defence of the right to defend and listen to any Member of this House will be for me in the coming days. You did well to recall the indications of constitutionality of the sages, dear to President Napolitano since before you had the task of forming the Government, but among the indications of those men it is written that we are all equal before the law. To be equal before the law, however, there is no law more equal than the others, the Severino law that must be removed from the scrutiny of the European Courts and the Constitutional Court because it concerns a senator who is hostile to some. This was not to be said, and this has led to the difficulties and lacerations of these days. I hope that, thanks to the vote of Parliament, your Government will not have to resign, and I do so all the more because on your left there is a Vice President of the Council who has suffered as much as I have some last-hour rackles. That Vice President of the Council I know little, but I remember seeing him one morning in winter, when he was a young Minister of Justice, and there was the funeral of Filippo Mancuso (a magistrate, Mr President, who honored the toga, the institutions and Parliament). I met Angelino Alfano then - resigned, but with a lot of elegance - and therefore I cannot have reasons to consider him a little Berlusconian. From this point of view, I therefore believe that this Government, as a guarantee of a civil debate, must have a very broad consensus on the part of Parliament, in order to be able to work on those issues which are in its policy direction. Let me give you one last thought: there has recently been an election campaign in Germany in which the main theme has been the reduction of public expenditure in the Länder. We cannot put on the same level the corrections to be made to our bicameralism and the absolute betrayal of the values of Einaudi and Crusader... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on you to conclude, and your time is up. We've got contingency times. Comrade (GAL). I apologize to you, Mr President, and to your colleagues. However, I think I have quite fully expressed my thoughts. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u8	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u9	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that I am not offended if you decide to suspend the sitting, since I see that a political group has clearly called its own assembly. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and M5S groups]] This is a decision that only you can make. I believe, however, that it would not be so absurd to ask someone for a meditation after the President-in-Office of the Council has spoken. I wait, therefore, for your decision and, in case you do not decide, I will move on and I will be very brief.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u10	Go ahead, Senator Casini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u11	[[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] CASINI (SCPI). President, I obey. I will then be even more synthetic than the few minutes I had set myself to take. We're on the verge of something. I hope that the response of Members will be inversely proportional to the length of the President-in-Office's speech: that is, a clear, clear and clear answer. The play of misunderstandings cannot continue. I am convinced that there will be a very broad consensus with the President-in-Office of the Council, and I repeat very much because I understand politics and I am a bit of an expert in this House. I hope that the scope does not penalise clarity, because we can no longer continue in a sort of permanent revenge of the election campaign. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] The Letta Government is not the second half of the election campaign. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] We consciously kill the Letta Government and Italy if every day we submerge it with the ultimative demands with which we conducted the electoral campaign. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] Here is a collective amnesia that risks putting us permanently out of tune with the country! We did not make a political alliance of love: this is an alliance of necessity; there was a President of the Republic who came to Parliament after accepting a pressing request from all of us and made a very hard speech, recalling our responsibilities. It was also on our part, at that moment, a renunciation of the small things that could divide us to put before all the interest of the country. If that was the constitutive reason of the Letta Government, ladies and gentlemen, then there is no room for furberies. I believe that the suffering of the PdL is understandable, and since I have divided my political destinies from those of Silvio Berlusconi in unsuspecting times, I want to say here, in front of everyone, because I believe that everyone has to assume their responsibilities, that labor is understandable and that it is deeply unfair and unacceptable for me to reduce Berlusconi's political history to a history of ordinary crime. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups and Senator Giovanardi]] It is unacceptable, because it would be like telling a part of the Italians that theirs was a contiguity with criminal history. It's not like that. We must have the courage to recognise in this House that there has been a great political competition. But today, at the basis of this Government, there was the repeated statement of Silvio Berlusconi that his judicial affairs could only be distinguished from the political question. If one fails to do so, it is clear that the Letta Government is knowingly sinking, and it is useless to go looking for the excuse of taxes, because what has happened in recent months has been a loosening of the tax pressure, demonstrated in a thousand ways. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups) and M5S]] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall stop, because I always obey my President of the Senate, who has set time limits for me. This is a story that risks becoming a farce, and I want to say that the only thing that Italy cannot afford is that this story ends up in a farce. With the vote, which will be a yes to the Letta Government, we must commit ourselves at the same time to avoid a navigation with continuous sabotages, because no commander of a ship, even the best one, manages to lead it to port if there are those who constantly, on one side and on the other, undermine the action of it. President, go ahead, and God bless us. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Mixed-SEL groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u13	Mr President, distinguished colleagues, illustrious President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the experience of this Government has now come to its desolate end. Beyond the results of this vote, in fact, the failure of a political class (PD plus PdL), completely inadequate and unable to represent the desire for change of Italian citizens, is no doubt the failure of a political class (PD plus PdL). The situation is even more disappointing because of the presence of so many young ministers, who in these short months, instead of courageously facing the challenges of the present, preferred to follow the current, thus deceiving themselves of being able to retain their power and their lauded emoluments. But for everyone, sooner or later, the moment of truth comes. The Italians know well that this political class, an expression of the much praised season of broad understandings, has only been able to share privileges and armchairs, soon forgetting the deep reasons for political commitment and the responsibility of the Government of an important and prestigious country. It is embarrassing, moreover, the total inability of the Government to address in concrete the problems of reality. For example, think of the Telecom affair and the superficial first declarations of disengagement by the President of the Council, Mr Letta, clearly unaware of the strategic importance of the network and the fundamental right of each citizen to have it in an efficient and, above all, safe way. The decisive intervention of the 5 Star Movement was necessary to remind politics of what society already knows very well, understanding the fundamental role of communications for the development of the economy and rights. Moreover, what could be expected of a class of old young people, who grew up in the illusion that privatisations were the solution to every problem of the economy, except for the disastrous effects on the coffers of the state, on the efficiency of services and on the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens, even in relation to common goods such as water? The same underlying attitude with the world of banks and finance, to be then betrayed in the expectations of support for the economic system and thus remain unarmed in the face of the data of increasing youth unemployment and the crisis of the world of work. Well, it's time to change and give the Italians the hope of a better future. The invitation for this majority and for this President-in-Office of the Council is to leave the camp and go home. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Italy needs a new, normal political class made up of capable women and men and, above all, ready to assume their responsibilities with integrity and courage. The 5 Star Movement, which will obviously vote no on the trust motion, is ready to ask the voters full and convinced support to win the next elections, go to the government and thus allow an effective change to this wonderful country. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u14	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u15	Mr President, I am borrowing a joke made by my friend Pier Ferdinando Casini, to remember that neither I nor we have ever signed up - as President Letta well knows - to any faction, but it is difficult not to discuss and not reason on the facts that have happened in the last week with the concern of those who read the things that have happened. We are closing today, finally, a terrible week, which has ridiculed Italy in the world. Institutions considered as toothpicks and the end of liberal conquests, of conquests that over time have considered parliaments the place of a free, public and transparent debate replaced by the return to a form traditionally expired and fallen like that of feudal homage between the feudal and the vassal. We have witnessed in the last week an equally terrible institutional desert: an attack on the unfounded Quirinale, the resignation of Members of Parliament delivered to a private residence and the resignation of Ministers delivered to the hands, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who were not his own, those of the Head of Government. In the end, next to the institutional desert, also a political desert, which put together by the Cipputi to the top FIAT leaders to deliver to Italy a unique message, that of those who claimed that Italy needed stability, governability and not a crisis, all the more supported by values and considerations of a personal nature. Before even a mayor, it seems to me that the tarmac has taken place in politics, and I hope that this morning it will take place in this House. Today, Mr President, is an important day. We can put an end to that week which I previously called terrible and we can allow politics to pursue with dignity, starting from the Senate, one last important mile. Whatever the outcome of the vote this morning, a cycle ended, and that cycle ended forever. My hope is that now the history of personal parties will also be set, that there will be a second Republic, founded on the logic of the enemy = enemy, and that the common good will be nothing more than an accident, a useless accessory, and that the courage of decisive choices will emerge from this Chamber until this morning, because it is here that the necessary clarity must be made, even before you go to Montecitorio this afternoon. On Italian politics, however, will go, a beautiful window will open: the wind of change does not tolerate dark corners. The Italian left will also have to question itself: to renew itself, to fuel its support for the Government by looking at Italy that is there and not at Italy that is no longer there or has never even been. We will have to rethink all the hinges that supported our passions, because democracy feeds on new forms, because there is a poverty of return that those who trusted in the perpetual motion of progress had not predicted, because security and merit are not words of the right, because the public expenditure that supported the social state is at sunset. This is a challenge for anyone among us who can no longer be renewed. If the majority who support it, Mr President, were to be that of last spring, it would be a deception, and you should say that it is a deception. You cannot accuse the Head of State and the President of the Council of Treason and Fellonia and then come to the Senate and vote for trust. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE), PD and M5S.]] It would be a terrible deception and would be a terrible injury to already weak institutions. In fact, an Executive of leaders and opportunists would be born: it is the only mixture that Italy does not need. If, on the other hand, the majority who will support your Government were supported by a centre-left agreement, in short, there was a Europeanist government with a medium-term programme such as what you defined, with the work centre, fiscal reform and electoral reform within a civic framework of sobriety and optimism less quarrelsome and more determined to define our mission, then we would be in the presence of a new fact, probably preparatory to a different Italy. This is the government that Italy needs. However, there will not be a Letta bis because, whatever happens in this House, there will be discontinuities with what happened during the election campaign and with what happened last spring that led to the formation of its first government. In conclusion, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to stress only the part about work in your report. On that point will be evaluated the authority of the government that you chair and the holding of a genuinely reformist majority. The reduction of the tax wedge in order to increase the income of those who work, the engagement of the unemployed in public services that the local authorities can no longer guarantee, the favor of the small credit towards the commercial and artisan companies and - I add - also a revision of the Fornero law are the points around which the reformist program that you presented to the Senate can allow Italy to make the qualitative leap. On this basis, we will also have our confidence. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, some say that we are meeting in this House today to witness the final scene of a tragedy which lasted twenty long years, to witness the fall of a regime, the Berlusconian one, and even the birth of the third Republic. You, President Letta, came here to have the vote of confidence for your government, in contrast to your main ally, Senator Berlusconi. But what confidence can we gain from us, spokesman for the citizens of this country, a Government that will go back to history to be that Government that has brought to completion the evil and evil reform of the justice of the Monti Government? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What confidence can you ever ask us after having accomplished the greatest destruction of justice ever done in this country since World War II to the present day? You, President Letta, with your Government, liquidating and closing 47% of all the judicial offices of our country, have deserted justice and deprived millions of citizens of this country of access to this very important right; and you have done so knowingly, Mr President of the Council, knowingly and deafly to any call, even from these classrooms, your majority and the citizens of this country, who have come to the streets of their cities to defend what is their constitutionally guaranteed right: the right to access to justice. Your government, President Letta, has abandoned entire territories of our country to mafias and organized crime! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They will take the place of a state that, thanks to its government, has withdrawn and has made justice a desert of despair and anger. And now he comes here, President Letta, to ask us for trust. If what your Government has done to justice were not enough (but it would certainly be enough, Mr President-in-Office, in any democratic and civilised Western country to send it home), we have a duty to remind you of other responsibilities. I refer in particular to the very serious responsibilities of your Minister Alfano in the case of Mrs Shalabayeva and her daughter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The Minister of the Interior of your Government, Mr President of the Council, is responsible, according to the Constitution, for the kidnapping of a six-year-old girl and her mother and for the infamous surrender of these innocents to a friendly dictatorship; because this was your Government, Mr. Letta: a government friendly to dictators, such as the Kazakh one, and an enemy and implacable opponent of citizens who seek justice, defending their courts or citizens who defend their valleys, like those of Val di Susa, from unholy works fruit of Tangentopoli and mafia and criminal interests! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this day looks so much like a 25 July of so many years ago, when other desperate men thought of dumping a partner of theirs with decadence, with whom they had ruled until a minute earlier, just to save themselves. But this will not be the case, Mr Letta: we will not give you confidence, for this and for millions of other reasons, one for every citizen of this country... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u18	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u19	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as our President, Mr Letta, has said, we die of shyness: so sometimes we have to take out what we really think. The current crisis of government is the predictable outcome of a series of choices made in recent months; it was clear from the beginning that the great agreements could not stand, being hung to the wire of the Berlusconian blackmail. And so today, under the worried and disgusted look of the country, we are witnessing a dramatization that risks giving a new direction to the Italian crisis. In this unprecedented situation, while maintaining all my reservations about the current Government, I am forced to give confidence. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]] In fact, I believe that it is necessary to provide the country with an Executive with the task of monitoring Italy's financial situation and, above all, of reforming the electoral law. To vote for the fourth time under the current system would be an unprecedented irresponsibility. It is, in all evidence, a government destined for a short life. At the same time as we are entering the mid-term end of the parliamentary term, it must be remembered that there was nowhere to be such an indecorous outcome. It would have been possible, and perhaps still is, a different Government, made up of personalities independent of parties and financial interests, capable of speaking in a language of truth to the country and defending Italian interests in Europe. I can think of Zagrebelsky, Rodotà, Settis, Del Vecchio, the four newly appointed senators for life; and I could go on for a bit longer. They would be credible ministers in Italy and abroad and would give the country a sign of change and recovery. Unfortunately, various interests have prevented this from happening. Among the many leaders, belonging to almost all the parties represented in this House, I wish, as elected in the ranks of the 5 Star Movement, and therefore in direct knowledge of the facts... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] The summits, with the excuse of formal fidelity to a piece of paper, the "non-statuary": they made a substantial betrayal of voters who demanded change...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u20	I invite you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u21	DE PIN (Mixed). One more minute, please, Mr President, I don't speak much. [[Applause from the PD Group.Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u22	Times are contingent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u23	DE PIN (Mixed). In order to autocratically control the party, they have prevented dialogue with any other political force. Behind the screen of purity, they have demonstrated the most classic party-cratic cynicisms, seasoned moreover with totally original intolerance. I entered Parliament with the hope of giving little help to the weakest people and to the country, to the people of my Venetian land, certainly not to go up on the roofs of Montecitorio and insult my dissenting colleagues. [[Live applause from the PD and LN-Aut groups.]] Above all, I did not come to Parliament to keep a lot suspended from the man who led the country towards a dramatic decadence and now keeps it suspended on his personal judicial problems. [[Applause from the PD Group]] With the policy of the worst, the best, with demagogy, with the repression of dissent you can take votes in the elections, but no change is made. This too is one of the bitter teachings of the last six months. [[Live applause from the PD, SCPI, LN-Aut and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE.]] It will be the task of the democratic forces to take advantage of this in order to be able to propose themselves in the future to lead the country. [[Live, sustained applause from the Mixed Groups, PD, SCPI, LN-Aut and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE. Congratulations. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u24	Senator Casaletto is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we wanted to demonstrate, the experience of broad understandings fails miserably and failure is in fact, in the millions of Italians who are now in difficulty, in the millions of Italians who are tired of your games of shop that no longer interest anyone but yourself and your miserable and caricatured attempts to make fun of us citizens. While we are all ready not to miss the train, another very fast train is coming directly to our face, but we don't even deserve a look, even if the development that could bring us would be anything but precarious, temporary and degrading. Proposals, Mr President-in-Office of the Council? Here they are: good agricultural policies could be the solution to many of our employment problems affecting young people who have never been employed and the return unemployed who, before the advent of the European Economic Community, largely guaranteed food sovereignty. It has been sixty years that everything has been focused on European industrial and Community policies and the final result, which has failed, is that agriculture now occupies only 3% of the Italian population and that through the spaces that have been guaranteed at European level and through disguised state aid it has literally been drugged and in the end it has not been able to respond to the challenges of unbridled competition, the causes of which are also in dependence on the capital market; but this is another story: of the slow economy we will talk about the next crisis of government, Mr Letta. Therefore, industry workers are now on the move, and to do European partners a favor; then there are the outside enemies, the multinationals and those who are buying with low hands from those subjects who have decided to leave the earth. And what would we need, Mr President-in-Office? In the meantime, we could use the reform of the CAP in a healthy way and in our favour, in favour of our young people, where the points to be developed are the aid to young farmers, to those in mountain areas, in need of new land to be cultivated, to be ripped from abandonment, to profitable housing speculation. [[Senator Castaldi is heading towards Senator De Pin's desk. Warm protests from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups.]] But then it was also supposed to be the theme of Expo 2015, Mr. President Letta, "Feeding the planet"? Strange way to feed the planet, with millions of cubic meters of concrete, highways, twelve lanes that pass on land already suffering from the poisoning of the chemical industries... [[Live, repeat protests from PD and Mixed-SEL Groups]] CASINI (SCPI). Mr President, you must speak: it is not acceptable, it has come to threaten a colleague! It's bad! It's very serious!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u26	It's serious, but I need to know what's going on. I'm listening to Senator Casaletto. [[Lively protests from PD, SCPI and Mixed-SEL groups.]] I will be praying to the people who have listened to a report from the Presidency on what has happened. I can't know what's going on when an intervention takes place. Make a report on what happened: Senators Quaestors will receive it and we will deal with the case. Okay? I would ask you to report what you have heard in a report and to take the necessary measures. Let us not admit that we are in this Chamber, let us be clear! [[Protests of Senator Esposito Stefano]] Senator Stefano Esposito, please, I said I can't stand it and I don't tolerate any weather in this House. Please, Senator Casaletto, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr President. But then it shouldn't have been the theme of Expo 2015, "Feeding the Planet"? Strange way to feed the planet, with millions of cubic meters of concrete, highways, junctions to twelve lanes that pass on lands already suffering from the poisoning of the chemical industries of the past, the expropriations of agricultural land to gut mountains for useless and devastating tunnels, contracts to the usual known. And all this would be feeding the planet and who lives on it? Of this world in apnea I find neither trace nor vision in his speeches President Letta. Maybe we forgot where we came from. Perhaps we feel white collars and do not observe that the solution of our problems is right under our noses, in fact, in this case I would say right under our feet. You tried to square up your compromises, your secrets. You tried to close a well-packed box, dressed in a false sense of responsibility, but desolately empty inside. What was your interest in building broad understandings? What arrangements? Does anyone have the courage to say in this House that it was the country's interest? Mr President, there are many questions in mind for every single Italian citizen: the trouble is that we already know all the answers, because we have learned on our own. And since yesterday we have VAT at 22%, and the exodus issue still unresolved, small and medium-sized enterprises agonize, young people and businesses flee abroad, businesses close, sell the state's assets and, in front of all this, still your nothing! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u28	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u29	President Letta, we have listened very carefully to you on this side, and we must tell you that when you left you had an opening of credit from us: in fact we abstained on the occasion of your installation, especially because you had spoken of the possibility of self-management of resources at local level. We hoped but, alas, today we must draw conclusions. Today, the picture of the country we hold is very different. I would not like to be presumptuous, I will remind you only of the first article of our Constitution: our Republic is founded on labour. Today we have over 40 percent of young people still waiting to find work. Let's try to imagine - try her too - the frustration of these children not to feel part of our society, not to have any future ahead, still feeling on the shoulders of their parents. We must conclude that we betrayed the first bulwark on which our Republic is founded. You mentioned Einaudi and Croce. I would like to quote Craxi halfway, with his many flaws and the many mistakes he made. He had to say one day that a government never does all good or all bad things, but you have to evaluate it as you weigh an object on a scale: on a plate you put the positive things and on the other you put the negative things. If the dish depends on the positive side we must conclude that it was a good government, otherwise we have to rule otherwise. Well, we would like to use this empirical method to evaluate your Government, otherwise it would be a primaristic and political judgment, of the kind I like, I don't like and however not objective. What are we gonna put on the good plate? The postponements, even the unfulfilled bad choices that could have been made. What about the other plate? Young people walking: increased; general unemployment: increased; public debt: raised; average taxation: increased; VAT (other than promise): increased; actions to support growth: who has seen them? Cuts to the bureaucracy of the public administration: not received; debt-to-GDP ratio: spread 3%; application of standard costs, which would allow savings between 10 and 15 billion: probably not even passed through the mind of this government! President Letta, I will stop here, first of all not to bore you, but also not to depress that little confidence that there is still in all of us as in every Italian, even in those who no longer recognize themselves in this country. What should we tell her? We identify ourselves in that figure of entrepreneur who, despite the efforts that you make every month, sees his company continuously accumulating debts on debts. His love for the company, that is for his work, would tell him to resist, to insist, but his rationality as an entrepreneur tells him that, in order not to create greater damage to both his finances and the general economy, it is better to pull the plug. Mr President, we come from that part of the country that is still humble, that has seen people who with the third grade put into business, hired dozens and dozens of people and made the fortune of this country; then came the professors with three degrees and shut down these enterprises. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Mr President, with all good will we believe that this Government, for a thousand reasons, no longer has anything positive to give to this country and therefore, rationally reasoning, as that entrepreneur does, but with great bitterness, we think it is better to pull the plug and give the voice back to the sovereign people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u30	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. (Brusio). Please, Senator, you can talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the interests of the House and the institutions, I would ask you, if possible, to sit down and make some silence. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u32	I'll direct the order of the House. If you want to take my place, let me know.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u33	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, as far as the order of the House is concerned, I would remind you that on 31 July you... The interesting things he will say will surely make everyone listen to her. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let me talk to you, Mr. President. On 31 July I was the subject of... I would ask you to speak in connection with the debate on the President-in-Office's communications. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, when the four-minute count begins, I begin. On 31 July I was the subject of an attack by Senator Pagano in this House. I have not seen anyone go off, come to the Presidency table and denounce this fact. Do you understand? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Now let's come to our speech. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! PAGE (PdL). Correct: Not Pagano. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I do not accept that while I speak someone from the PD desks... [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u34	Senator Santangelo, if you want to provoke the House, you can do so, but please continue your speech on the subject: the debate on the Council President's communications. Please stay on the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u35	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am not provoking the House: I am trying to have the respect I deserve. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You make your speech, then I will take care of the order of the House, if you will excuse me. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE).]] SANTANGELO (M5S). So, use the courtesy... if anyone... president. You do your speech, or else I'm forced to take your word for it. Quiet, please. SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I apologise for this little mishap. I will not read my speech, because you know, Mr Letta, I am 41 years old... Do not smile, Mr Letta: I represent at this moment what I was five months ago: a free citizen, sent here by many other citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] I'm forty-one years old, and I think you're forty-six or forty-seven, so you and I are peers. I would ask you to look at me for a moment of confrontation, which we can have in this House. You said that from 1992 until now there have been 14 governments, if I am not mistaken. You know, I'm one of the victims of these 14 governments; you should be a victim like I am. I've seen my schoolmates go out, I've seen people leave. What you described today does not correspond to the truth. I hate to tell you this, but it doesn't match the truth. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You say that you dream of the United States of Europe, but I would like to lower it, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I dream that Italians have the opportunity to stay in Italy and to create their own future. You said Italians pay less taxes today. That's not true. You said this government did, and you described things. I give you my point of view of what really has been done. A very precise approach has been given, the funding of the F-35 has been voted and many billions of euros have been allocated for Expo 2015. But the Italians have less money in their pockets, because the paycheck, Mr. Letta, they don't get it anymore. You spoke of culture, but I don't know if you read the decree on culture and tourism that was passed a few days ago. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In that decree, where there was really to be the revival of Italy, and not of the United States of Europe, there was very little written. Italy is not only Pompeii, from a cultural point of view. It didn't say anything about tourism. So what did you tell me? Of the 12 billion data at Expo? Of the billions spent on airplanes? Or, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are always talking about acts, because of course you have read them. 28 and 29 of 2013 it was decided a few days ago to dedicate a billion to the purchase of 10 helicopters. That billion is the equivalent that could have been intended to prevent the increase in VAT. My time has run out, however, Mr President-in-Office, I repeat that I do not know where you have lived. I invite you, also from the institutional point of view, to take a tour with me, Senator Santangelo. I'll have her come to Rome, I'll have her come to Milan, I'll have her come to Niscemi, I'll have her come to Taranto. Then we meet again here in the Chamber and have a more serious and constructive speech... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scavone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u37	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Senate, authoritative members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked today to be February 1978, when, by bringing together the Groups of the Chamber and the Senate of Christian Democracy (we were in the aftermath of a complicated electoral campaign, in which we were thinking of the overtaking of the Communist Party, which did not happen, and the monocolor Andreotti, who then failed), a great man of the politics of our country, who is no longer there (both man and politics), spoke of anguish. And he spoke of anguish because he was carrying himself on his shoulders, Aldo Moro. [[Applause from Senator Companione),]] the labor that was within his party, the Christian Democracy, but also the labor that began in that great party that was the Communist Party, with which it was necessary, for the representation that this party had, to reckon and think, together, of being able to govern the country. Here today we record the festival of the victory of the rules of accounts in large parties and small parties, in historical parties and in the newest formations that are present in this House, with an attitude that is honourable to each of us and, unfortunately, to this House at a very delicate time. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we met in the course of the consultations, and then we gave you a one-page document: you will remember that. We asked for attention to be paid to the centrality of the problems of the Mezzogiorno. We asked her for an Italian strategy that included the Mezzogiorno, the only way out of the crisis: an immediate anti-conjunctural action of interventions that would allow the recovery of the Mezzogiorno, an unavoidable condition for the recovery of the country. We reminded her of working conditions. Today many agencies and research structures highlight impressive data: it was April this year and we reminded them. Before unemployment, we talked about employment: 50% in Germany and 25% in the Mezzogiorno, in our land. In these days, on the occasion of the examination of the interventions that we have approved, we have emphasized the despair that goes through the families of our country, and in a particular way of the Mezzogiorno, with over 3,000,000 NEETs, which - as you know better than I - are the young people who are having fun in any condition, with various cultural levels, without a possibility of employment. We have been waiting for an overall response from the Mezzogiorno, but this has not happened. We recognise, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we have represented Italy internationally with honour and that we have done our utmost to ensure that concrete action in this month is beginning to be the true indicator of the turning point. This has not yet happened. I worry when I still hear in his speech two words that have repeated so many times: "we mean" and "we will proceed." These are verbal voices too much related to the future, the result of a pervasiveness that in some way, knowingly or not, your Government has allowed two large parties that represent the large part of our country and whose internal labour and whose path of transformation have certainly weakened the action of the Government. I remember one for all: with a little 'emphasis we remembered a decree-law extraordinarily new, after years of silence, that is the decree value culture. But we must not forget that in that decree too many choices have been made in favour of some territories that have a certain political color; there is no overall strategy for the revival of culture and sites and, among other things, the economic covers are covers that go through the moments of difficulty and the attempts of development that have also been put in the field. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scavone, I invite you to conclude. Your time is up. SCAVONE (GAL). I'm going to conclude. We of the Movement for the Autonomy of the Great South, that autonomous and federalist component that here is part of this Mixed Group called LAG have had attention and solidarity for those who have allowed us to be here and to make the voice of our territories feel strong. For this reason, we will prevail, in the suffering we live in the Group, a vote of consistency and loyalty as far as politically has happened and has allowed us - precisely - a representation in Parliament. [[Applause from the LAG Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers and representatives of the Government, today to the many voters of my Province, with whom I relate every day, convinced as I am that my role here is to translate into institutional and legislative terms the many questions, concerns and needs that concern them, unfortunately I cannot give answers. I cannot give you this because this legislature and the Commission are being forced into a debate on the very reasons for their existence. It is a debate of which we Autonomists would have gladly done without, convinced that at this moment - as he said to the President of the Republic on the day of his re-election - the focus must be only and exclusively the interest of the country, beyond any partisanry, any ideology, the specific interest of this or that political part, of this or that political actor. We would have done without it, because in recent months there has been a slow return of confidence for the institutions, for the public thing and its ability to provide answers to the many questions that come from citizens and companies exhausted by the crisis. As the President-in-Office of the Council has said with sincerity, but also with the determination that distinguishes him, the Government with those thousand European bonds, even with the limited resources it has, with the enormous difficulties that we all do not ignore, has managed to operate on several fronts that have been remembered by the President himself and that I do not want to repeat. However, I welcome his mention of the special autonomy and I appreciate the fact that finally this Government has started a concrete, serious and constructive confrontation with the Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, but also with the Aosta Valley Region. We believe then that the Government must remain alive in order to continue to operate along the way undertaken by securing the public accounts, continuing in its action of relaunching the economy in order to engage the train of recovery and bring Italy out of the sands of the crisis. The end of the legislature, as with the experience of this Government, would be a very dangerous and, perhaps, irreversible step backwards. President Letta called it a fatal risk. It is not possible that after just seven months the idea of returning to the polls will be taken into consideration, inter alia by means of an electoral law which would not allow the emergence of a majority in this House. But, above all, new elections would bring down the confidence and hope that slowly was returning to the citizens, exposing our country to the risk of the violent and uncontrolled reaction of a public opinion that would once again feel mocked by an irresponsible political class that, in the face of the drama that lives today many citizens and numerous companies, aims to defend its own interests. We self-employed, joining President Letta, therefore appeal to all those who sit in this Chamber, no one excluded, so that at this moment the sense of responsibility towards the country prevails. It is fundamental, for the good of our economy and for the social keeping of the country, that we continue on the path we have taken and that, at the same time, we begin to work on the great reforms (President Letta spoke of 14 months), on a draft reform of the electoral law that can combine representation and governability, on the revision of the current bicameral system equal (now outdated and anachronistic), on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, our leader, Senator Zeller, will give the reasons for our vote in favour. The Trentino-Tyrolean Autonomous Party, which I represent as a senator but also as political secretary, together with the Union Valdôtaine, represented by my colleague Senator Laniece, trusts you and your Government. We also appreciated how he faced this very difficult and delicate circumstance: open and available to comparison, but determined and responsible. You, as always, gave politics a lesson in style. We are ready to support it again and to support all the initiatives that it wants to put in place and that continue to go in the direction taken, convinced as we are that never as at this time the sense of responsibility towards the country must have the upper hand on ideologies and on any other consideration. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u40	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u41	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we had, not since today but since the beginning of this parliamentary term and this political affair, warned - if I may say so - of the impossibility of success of the attempt which you had put in place. We warned that the season of broad understanding, the political agreement between the Democratic Party and the People of Liberty would be very negative for our country. Not because abstractly, in a condition of difficulty, such as that in which our country emerged from the polls with a picture of great political fragmentation, it cannot be possible, precisely abstractly, to find forms of collaboration with the political opponent, especially when fragmentation and political division are such as to make it actually complex to find majorities. But in order to do this, that is, to actually build a form of collaboration between different political subjects, it would have served to share the fundamental values, those constitutional values and that respect for the powers of the State that the PdL and Berlusconi have repeatedly trampled on during these months, constitutional values that are the basis of the republican pact and that during these months instead have suffered a real vulnus. We said that, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and we also said that the kind of government that you set up, precisely the Government of broad understanding, would stifle the anxiety of change that the country had asked for and that it had come out of the polls with force, which had somehow marked a new season of the political affair of this country. Yet, you and the Ministers who are here will recognize us as the Left Ecology and Freedom, of the SEL component of the Mixed Group of the Senate of the Republic, we have tried to maintain an attitude of nothing ideological towards your Government, to the point of voting in some cases in favour of your measures (the one on prisons, for example) or not to fail to support some narrow passages also of foreign policy: one for all, what has been determined in the past days, with a position on Syria that - as you know - we shared. But it is the basic cut, Mr President, that has not convinced us over the course of all these months, as we are not convinced by what you have said this morning, namely the substantial continuity with that fundamental cut. We would have liked to hear bolder, clearer words that marked the end of a political experience that has been consumed during this phase. That cut, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has, on the other hand, seemed largely inadequate in a country that collapses, in which - be careful - the combination between the social crisis, the economic crisis and the progressive moral decline can create a dramatic, very dangerous democratic vulnus. On the other hand, it seemed to us that precisely on this point, on the whole system of all these years, there was no break with austerity policies that were - in our opinion - the main cause of the economic crisis. Even today, believing that we can grow by 1% next year, after the crisis has burned 25% of the productive apparatus, continuing the manoeuvres of expansive austerity to stay rigidly within the parameters of 3% of the deficit-GDP ratio, unfortunately means surrendering to the book of dreams. There is no need for empirical evidence to know that austerity does not resuscitate, but devastates our economy. More courage would be needed, for example on the front of the contrast of the progressive decline of the productive apparatus of the Country. We should defend and not sell out our industrial system, the most advanced one, the one most dedicated to product innovation, the one most capable of developing environmentally sustainable production technologies and techniques. We should also try to achieve a greater increase in the productive capacity of the places, enhancing for example territorial vocations, rooting local development dynamics, for example those based on the new possible employment areas of agri-food, cultural, environmental and landscape goods. That's what we wanted to hear. We would have liked to hear words that were not simply a continuation of the existing, but that were a real change of pace that opens up a decisive horizon for workers and their families, for the citizens most affected by the crisis in their living conditions and that are now increasingly marginalized in a condition of intolerable poverty. In essence, we would have liked it to be noted that in this country, over the last few hours, the political events that are taking place cannot fail to have consequences, also and above all, on the underlying programmatic terrain that we should put in place. We would then have liked to hear a few words about some choices that - in our opinion - have been profoundly wrong. One for all: that of the IMU. We have not shared, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and we would also like to understand it for the future, and we are not convinced that everything must be the same, without any difference, so that the house of a poor pensioner and the villa of a billionaire, even if both first houses, are placed on the same level. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and M5S Groups and Senator Fornaro]] We are not convinced, Mr President-in-Office of the Council! How can we not be convinced that there has not been, in the course of these months, a more meaningful and serious reasoning, more linked to an issue that has also been addressed at international level. I am referring to the important issue of how to cut military spending, how to reduce the F-35, in short, how to try to give our country another image and also try to close a long season of the Italian political phase. So I would like to say very clearly that we in the Left Ecology and Freedom are not at all convinced that there should be today the dissolution of the Chambers. We think - and I would like to say this clearly - that if anyone believes that the Senate of the Republic can be dissolved in order to prevent him from voting on the decadence, it is a very serious democratic vulnus. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, SCPI and Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE]] This undermines the basic ideas of the Constitution of the country. That is why we do not want early elections. We want the Senate to vote, that, in the full freedom of the Senators of the Republic, we can vote on the decadence of Senator Silvio Berlusconi. But we also want, Mr President-in-Office of the Senate and Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a short government, a government of purpose, a government that first of all places the law of stability on the subject, of course, and how to intervene, starting from the same law of stability, on the great open issues of our time (the integration fund by way of derogation, the exodus, the nerves discovered in our country), while finally intervening also on the electoral law. We can say that because we have collected a million and a half signatures in this country to repeal the porcellum. We have not simply tabled a parliamentary motion, what we have also done, but we have set up banquets throughout Italy to put an end to what, once again, is a democratic vulnus like the porcellum. I say this to Parliament and to the whole country: our mobilization against the porcellum will continue in the course of the days that will come: we will collect signatures and build in the country a movement that will make it impossible for this Parliament not to change that electoral law. This we would like from the new Government: not simply the continuation tired of the broad understandings, but some elements of discontinuity. To the elements of discontinuity we will look with great attention, the tired repetition of the existing does not interest us. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Puppato. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Volpi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I must first say that what amazes me a little is that I am more embarrassed for you than for yourselves, and for one simple reason: the paradox is that you, President, cannot choose a majority today (because it seems that they are still in the secret rooms); on the other hand, you can choose the relationship you want with the opposition. And I think this isn't a marginal passageway. I immediately press on what I wanted to say at the end, but that maybe you want to know right away: I think that you govern with quality and I think that you always have the time of a reply to choose how to have a relationship with a part of the country. We feel representative of a part of the country and I think you know that that part of the country needs to be recognized in a serious and concrete way. At the time of its establishment we had made a request, political and geopolitical together, without receiving an answer. You always make very broad speeches, but I would also like to say that the reasoning about Europe is valid if you take everything from Europe, including the European idea of the macro-regions that we proposed to you. I repeat, you have not answered that request yet. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But let me remind you that there is always time for a reply from you. I come to the second point, namely the resources that must go to some regions. When you put forward proposals on the point, in this situation that I imagine you want to be the beginning of a new third Republic (a bit ambitious as a project, given the still obnoxious composition of your future majority), you should think that in the project Country, which I have not heard perfectly outlined today, there have been - they all recognize - engines for this country that are not necessarily those on which, again last week, your Government has directed its interest. In fact, 40% of the young unemployed are not only in those regions that you have identified, as always in the South... (The President-in-Office of the Council exchanged a few words with Senator De Cristofaro.) I beg your pardon, President. I have a few minutes as an opposition and I would like to use them with you very carefully. I was saying, the resources must not be limited to those young people whom you have identified in a few regions in the South, because in the North young people are unemployed as far as the South is concerned. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I would not like you to continue along this path, i.e. in continuity with the Monti Government, with the entrepreneurs who commit suicide and one of your own. Minister who manages to go to the Chamber to argue with the parliamentarians about the various economic crises affecting the country. And maybe it was only an argument with the opposition parliamentarians: the quarrel was also with those of the majority! President Letta, what we have asked you is a serious matter: to recognize a territorial policy that can give the country total space. We're from the North, we're representing the North, and we're not interested in representing anything else. Today I could have been controversial about other issues, thinking about immigration, thinking that you should be, like me, very bad when you talk too much and do nothing and there are hundreds of deaths in the Mediterranean. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That's the real problem. We don't share anything you've done, and we haven't heard anything about anything else. But the problem with your government is that unfortunately it is also made up of ministers who have automatically sublimated, have disappeared. They speak: news agencies, words, but there are few facts to see. We fought in this House for another reason, and I would like to remind you that I also see the Minister of Justice. We are defending the courts in the North, because we cannot take away a productive sector that is capable of making the system more efficient. It is not efficient to close the courts. Rationalizations are not these. I want to tell you one last thing, which is also my personal reflection. Please take it as a cue. I have seen in recent days that some unions in the public service are urging you because the salaries of civil servants for three years have been at a standstill. I invite you to remind these unions that you cannot summon Greece only when it suits you: in Greece the salaries of civil servants were cut because the rest of the country was crying! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] Let us remind her of these things, perhaps by choosing the sectors, because the spending review is not only done with the purchase of a few less blue cars, but also taking into account in a serious and consistent way the sacrifices that are made in many places in the North and - I believe - throughout the country. There can be no privileged categories. They're the only ones who haven't made any sacrifices and even ask for an increase in salary, when people are starving and don't get to the middle of the month! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Sentrice Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u44	Senator Volpi, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u45	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will finish now. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I repeat what I said to you at the beginning. You can still choose what kind of opposition you want to have. In the North 75% of the resources can be ascribed; therefore, an immediate capacity of relationship with the Regions you know must be recognized (Veneto, Piedmont and Lombardy, first of all, not because it is the most important, but because last it gave the most obvious signal), to reason, just with you, on a European macro-region that is tow for the whole country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u47	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that what we are seeing is the best framework for a debate about a fundamental step - I want to use this expression - in our national history, at a very difficult time for the country, when once again the world looks at us and when we run the risk of being put under control also by the global and European financial authorities. Unfortunately, some voids also reveal the emptiness of consciousness, which must be there at these moments. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio]] , and also the emptiness of democracy that we have witnessed over the last twenty years. On the other hand, I hope that what is happening in a positive way will be the beginning of a new season, a season in which we finally become aware of the need to profoundly change the approach to Italian politics, to Italian political stories, to the way to make democracy and to build it on the basis of the European political family that gives substance to a government of broad political understanding. I believe that the attitude of 23 senators who have signed motion for a resolution No 2 in these hours must be looked at with great respect and dignity by us. Indeed, those people, from whom I am separated from many cultural and political differences, are writing a new page that is the basis of the new broad understandings that we are going to build after these months of difficulty. [[Applause from Senators Di Biagio and Romano.]] Woe if all this, as President Casini said, ends up in a farce. Woe if it was considered as a journey accident due to fibrillations linked only to the personal events of a person. I do not want to reduce the personal difficulties that this person has: I respect them, as I respect the difficulties of all people. But I believe that this country has paid too high a price on the altar of personal interests and affairs. We must do everything we can to get out of it and to make sure that a new majority is clearly formed today, to which any additional votes would only be additional. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]] We need to understand who the interlocutors are in order to build a new page of Italian democracy, of the parliamentary debate, of this Government which is the only one possible and which has the authority to allow us to overcome this complicated phase that will lead us to the European semester. After that we will have to take stock of the situation and, without putting limits to divine providence and also to our political capacity, perhaps we might also look beyond. Only in this way will we be able to restore credibility, stability, development, in the rigour of public finances and in respect of the European and international constraints freely assumed, to a country whose citizens daily wonder how it can, being so beautiful, be raped by the illegality still too widespread, by the contempt of the rules, by the deep injustices that mortify the hope of work and life, especially of the youngest. These are the challenges that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you, Ministers, we, Members of Parliament, must put on our shoulders today, before our fellow citizens, before the world. We have a duty to continue the path we have taken in recent months. We have a duty to correct the tendency, seen as the tensions on the government increased, to conceive broad understandings as a sort of dout des, in which the protagonists tend to monetize the commitments made before their voters. This trend must be stopped. Italy will be able to engage the recovery only if, with the regained credibility obtained first by the Monti Government and then by you, Mr President, on the international occasions that you have had and that you have reminded us, we will courageously be able to influence the reduction of taxes on companies and labour costs, on the structural reforms of the public administration and on the constitutional reforms that we have undertaken to achieve in respect of the centrality of Parliament. It is a solemn commitment that we made at the beginning of this parliamentary term by voting on the first government, and we will renew it today. However, we cannot forget another important turning point: the one on justice. We are a Group that has signed many of the radical referendums for which signatures are being collected in Italy these days so that we can get out of the confrontation on justice that has paralysed the country, justice that we really need. Mr President, as we renew your request that the pact you mentioned, which is the refounding of this coalition, be enshrined in a real coalition contract, according to the best way of understanding a Government of broad understanding, Civic Choice in its plurality, but also in its unity wants to continue to be an active and increasingly decisive part in making concrete the commitments you have made in your report to the Senate of the Republic. There is little time to prevent Italy from suffering from the shame of a police station. We must ensure that our responsibilities can be fully fulfilled. We must make sure that the assault on public finances, the evils that have never ended, the perverse interweavings between politics and business, the absurd costs of political apparatuses, the widespread clientelisms that have shattered the republican history of these forty years are prevented. We must continue in the effort begun two years ago by the Monti Government and which you continued with the government five months ago and which we are renewing today. It is a great effort that also requires a great courage of truth about Italy, about the small and great privileges and the nefariousness that undermine its development. The courage that we have seen today in many of our colleagues and the dignity that has marked it are the guarantee that this effort will not be in vain. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u48	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u49	Mr President, allow me to stigmatise the fact that I speak in this House where there are a hundred senators in the Republic. President of the Council, members of the Government, fellow senators, we are all aware of the state of serious crisis in our country and of the need for the policy to provide adequate, prompt and effective responses. We are all aware of this, and yet your Government, President Letta, has so far gone in the opposite direction. But is it possible that you do not realize that the 40.1% cause of youth unemployment in our country is the consequence of the unholy policies that you have put in place so far? It is possible that you do not realize that until you go home - not before you apologize to the Italians 2,000 billion times, I emphasize, as many as the euros of public debt that you have managed to accumulate bringing this country to the gas barrel - will there be no hope for our country? In fact, the people who have reduced the country under these conditions will never be able to remedy the problems created by themselves! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Stefani]] We must put an end to the waste of public money, waste that continues with its government more than ever. Just think of the decision to continue throwing money at the stake of the TAV project, after the French Government has debilitated this work as a non-priority. It's not a priority for our country either. So why doesn't he stop? What unconfessible interests lie behind this illogical decision, Mr President? You keep wasting public money even going ahead with the F-35 project. Many countries have already turned back. Moreover, these machines have hundreds of unsolved technical problems that will blow up the unit cost of each vehicle. We don't really need these flying Ferrari bombs today. We do not want to support, at the expense of the culture and education of our children, pharaonic bomber projects, which do not even bring us new jobs. We could do without Fremm frigates (one and a half billion euros), U-212 submarines, military satellites, C4 communication and control systems, etc.; the list would be very long. Where is the urgency and the need to deal with these costs? Why aren't all these programs suspended? At the same time, its government has thought well to condone the companies managing the slot machines, for almost two billion euros. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Just so we don't miss anything. With what right, President Letta, have you considered giving such a scandalous amount to these companies? How many schools could we have made anti-seismic with those money? And to think that the contested figure had been the subject, as we all know, of a colossal reduction, having been calculated originally a penalty close to EUR 100 billion. As a citizen, if I receive a sanction, I pay it; but with your Government, Mr President, some citizens - obviously - are much more equal than some others. We would have liked to have seen them do, Mr President, the TV frequency auction, a revision of the Gasparri law, the cancellation of the IRAP, a return of the billionaire loan granted to Monte dei Paschi di Siena, but we have understood that the great useless works, the investments in arms and the protection of the questionable videopoker companies are much more important to you. I saw you the other night, Mr. President, I saw you lying to the Italians during Fazio's transmission to RAI, just when they asked you about the electoral law. It wasn't the first time I heard her lie. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, the time is running out. Mr Capelletti (M5S). I am thinking, for example, of your assurances on the abolition of electoral contributions: perhaps you did not miss that you did not abolish anything! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I conclude with a reference - if you will allow me - to that part of your strange majority who, following the indications of the most famous of Italy's criminals, replied "yes, sir" to the request to resign in mass. In this case, kind gentlemen of the PdL, who are not here right now, for the first time in twenty years you have had all my admiration. Finally I said to myself: they're doing the right thing, they're finally resigning! They will understand that rather than staying in Parliament to do harm, it can be much more dignified to resign and go home. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u50	Please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u51	Mr Capelletti (M5S). I just hope you all keep your commitment to the resignation you've made, but I don't think you will. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bondi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr President. You, Mr Letta, are well aware that your Government was born by the will of President Berlusconi and the People of Freedom, because until the last moment your party, of which you are the Deputy Secretary,... It's from PD's banks. Was! BONDI (PdL). ...has pursued the purpose of an alliance with the Grillo Movement. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] This government was born to achieve, as you know, two fundamental objectives: firstly (I will not use the word pacification, which sucks to you, colleagues on the left), I will say that it was born to achieve the conditions of a normal democracy, in which there was finally mutual legitimacy among the political forces of majority in our country; secondly, to face the serious economic crisis in which we find ourselves. This Government, its Government, Mr Letta, I say this very clearly, in a personal capacity here, has failed on both issues. He failed on that issue you don't even want to hear about, peace. But what is pacification but that ability, to which you referred in your speech, to understand the reasons of others, the reasons of political opponents? I remember that time, Mr Letta, the era of the historic compromise (as I remember it), of the Christian Democracy, of the Communist Party, in which there was the ability, sensitivity, political foresight to understand the reasons of others, even those who were ideologically opposed to ours and your reasons. But for you, in addition to your fine words, Mr Letta, pacification means actually breaking out, removing from political life and from this Parliament the leader of the Italian moderates, the leader who has indicated you to chair this Government, Mr Letta, and who you have forgotten even to mention. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] Peacemaking, Mr Letta, presupposed the courage and foresight to address two fundamental issues which we do not pose, but which poses the world of culture, of the most knowledgeable and intelligent politics. The first question is not the personal judicial question of President Berlusconi, as you call it, but the question that has arisen in this country for decades and that you as a Christian Democrat should know well, Mr Letta, since your party has been removed by judicial means by the politicized judiciary: that question which is called the balance between the powers of the State against the overpower of the judiciary. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] The pride and dignity of Christian Democrats and Socialists have been defended not by you, Mr Letta, but by a man named Silvio Berlusconi, otherwise you would no longer be here: do you understand this or not? [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] YOU WANT FROM PDL BANKS. Bravo! BONDI (PdL). The second question: understand and respect a part of Italy that is recognized in Silvio Berlusconi. You never wanted to deal with this problem. As Angelo Panebianco said about the "Corriere della Sera", this government failed the day after the decision of the Supreme Court and you of the PD, you, Mr Letta, have not only done nothing to address a gigantic political problem, but you have even rejected and rendered unworkable even the possibility of following and enforcing the law in this country and not the abuse against legality, against the leader of a force of the majority government, without which you would not be sitting on that scranco. [[Applause from Senators Alicata and Repetti.]] You have even prevented the issues raised by the most authoritative lawyers in this country from being examined in this regard. You wanted to violate a fundamental principle of civilization of law, which is the non-retroactivity of criminal and administrative law. [[Comments from PD and SCpI Groups.]] You refused to refer to the Constitutional Court the interpretation of a law contested by lawyers: but what do you want? And you talk about understanding, about dialogue, but you want to make fun of Parliament.! [[Comments from PD and SCpI Groups. Applause from the PdL Group.]] You think you speak to Parliament fifty years ago, in which this hypocritical, false language was worth, which does not correspond to reality. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] You're from PD banks. Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me talk. I'm gonna finish. Mr Letta, you have magnified your government's economic work. But where do you live, Mr Letta? Which planet do you live on? But do you know that the economic data has all gotten worse? Do you know that the public debt has increased? Did they tell you? [[Protests from the PD Group]] Do you know that unemployment has increased? They told you, did they inform you? Do you know we're in a recession? (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet! BONDI (PdL). Do you know that the Italian economy will decrease by 1.7%, against the totally wrong forecasts of your Government? But do you know these things or pretend you don't know them? There is a need, Mr Letta, for a real government, for a politically cohesive government. Italy does not suffer instability, especially that stability and continuity of governments, which you have magnified since the post-war period. A government every year: and do you magnify this kind of instability in our country? [[Comments by Senator Esposito Stefano.]] Italy does not suffer from that kind of stability or instability: Italy suffers from a Government that is not able to face the economic crisis, which is unable to face and realize with courage and foresight the conditions of an effective normality and pacification in this country. You, Mr Letta, will fail. You gave birth to a governess. You have achieved a single result, on the skin of the country: that of breaking the People of Liberty. [[Applause from Senator Di Biagio.]] Of course you can have everything, you can form the Government, you can split our party, you can try to expel Berlusconi from Italian political life, but I personally, and I believe we will not see this humiliation of our party, of Berlusconi and of Italy! [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u55	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your strong and clarifying message is what was needed today and corresponds to very widespread questions and hopes in the country. The vast majority of citizens, those we meet every day in places of work and study, in businesses or in professions, ask politics and the government not to be irresponsible but to be stable, ask for visible and concrete results, ask for continuity. Our debate must therefore first look to the country. We always say, even with some solemnity, that the representatives of the people or citizens sit here: well, today we have the opportunity to really reason and speak in their name, putting us up to the concerns, anxieties and even the hopes of Italy. Three things are clear to those who pay attention and not superficially listen to what our electoral citizens think and say. Firstly, citizens do not want to break in the dark, nor do they want to go back to voting with a law that makes a chimera the majority in the Senate. This feeling is better understood if we widen our eyes, if we leave the narrow circle of party militants. When we come into contact with groups of people more distant from active politics, but not less sensitive to the good of the country, we see that there is a very large and strong demand for seriousness, concreteness, industriousness and therefore, consequently, of quality of politics and stability in the highest sense. For these of our citizens, the interruption of government activity today, in the midst of a difficult passage of the economic and social crisis, would be a trauma. They tell us on the street, in the bars, on the train. Every day. And I wonder if those who speak here today are talking to these citizens! The Italian Parliament will be a faithful interpreter of popular sentiment if it starts from here, without trivializing the call to stability and responsibility. Continuous and coherent action by the Government and Parliament gives the sense to the country that there is a guide, there are those who indicate a direction of march. After so many years of exaggerated promises, announcements of unwavering reforms and exasperated institutional conflicts, today we need a different phase, realistic but rigorous reconstructive work and reformer. This is the exemplary value of stability. It's not a scam, it's a message to the whole country, a commitment in his name. The same question also comes from Europe and from all the international bodies that matter. We do not always deny everything and all of interference, of attack on our sovereignty! We are not surprised if they tell us that Italy's instability can cause problems for Europe! It would be bizarre if we Italians thought that what happens here doesn't matter outside our borders. We must know this first and for ourselves, without being told by anyone: yes, a phase of instability, of operational stalemate, of weakness in the face of international financial speculation in Italy is a problem for Europe. Because Italy is a great and important country, which has regained, thanks also to the action of the Government and President Letta, a role and a prestige in the world assembly and which, precisely for this reason, today has responsibilities. What idea would we have of our role in Europe if we thought that our choices and actions were irrelevant or marginal? We would be the first detractors of our country and its right to count on the European scene. Here is an important first point: let us not waste energy on unproductive polemics with Europe; let us take a serious and thorough approach to the issues which it places on us, starting with the recommendations made to us at the moment, so positive for us, of the closure of the infringement procedure. Fear to face with an open face, without escaping the non-painful dilemmas that come from it. We must support the efforts of the Government and President Letta, in the first person, to accredit in the world a reliable, credible and open image of Italy for investment. From this point of view, how can we fail to see that asking for or imposing the resignation of parliamentarians or ministers at the precise moment when the President of the Council speaks to the UN Assembly or exalts on Wall Street the opportunities of the Italy system is not only a serious mistake towards the Government and to our companies that want to internationalize, but also a negative signal that arrives deep in the country, that is the message that we will never be ready, even in this very long crisis, to put Italy's needs first before anything else? We do not believe that the country does not grasp these messages, because in an increasingly demanding way it asks, and rightly so, politics to set an example and to show the way. Yesterday evening President Letta appropriately rejected the resignation of the ministers of the PdL. We hope that with this clear political gesture the wound will be healed in a clear and responsible way. The second clear point is that our fellow citizens do not want low-profile solutions, precarious, unable to stand up to the test of government. They want clarity, a clear assumption of responsibility, loyalty in evidence of particular and personal interests. Our people are also distressed by the many reconstructions, often unjust and imaginative, that a small part of the information does in these days, as if everything were just a question of power clash or defense of their own armchairs. It is up to us to prove that this is not the case. President Letta's communication helps us a lot, because it calls for an important and transparent clarification that gives new certainty to citizens and avoids having to clarify and renegotiate every day the priorities and characteristics of the Government. It is not a theatre, but a challenging passage that must be lived with the right dignity. The dignity of politics lies in making the best of the path we can and will take. The third and last thing that citizens ask us is a real determination to do reforms, to take the necessary measures, without hesitation and postponement. The difficulties are still great and we must be wary of those who tell us that we are outside the tunnel. There are signs of recovery, but not everywhere, not for everyone, not enough. The formation of the government five months ago gave us important priorities: institutional reform, a new electoral law, the reduction of the costs of politics, the commitment to the growth and employment of young people, the return from debt, participation in the construction of Europe. Today you confirm this approach and enrich it: we can work more usefully to implement these commitments. Two issues more than any other are clear in their pressing urgency: the law of stability, which must be ready within a few days, and the electoral law, which surpasses the porcellum, to which this Senate at the end of the summer assured, with unanimous vote, the urgency procedure. For the Democratic Party, these are the first two unavoidable commitments, for which we will commit ourselves with conviction, and others will follow. There is, therefore, a recognizable path ahead of us: to fulfil our strategic commitments, to play our role in the Italian Presidency of Europe, to consolidate the image in the world. All this will be useful to the country, to the families and to the enterprises, but not only. We are convinced that institutional fibrillations and political instability are not good for democracy, which in our country still has great potential, but also not a few weaknesses and fragility. Who does not remember the critical reflections made by many after the vote last February: strong abstentionism, populistic push and more? This theme is still open, with all its dilemmas, with the tensions it produces in the body of Italy. We can't joke. For us the real antidote to the corruption of democracy is - I repeat - the dignity of politics, its being a source of virtuous behavior for all. That is why, in recent weeks, we have insisted, with firmness and tenacity, on some fundamental positions, on fundamental values that are inescapable. Not for us, but for Italian democracy. May the judicial affairs of everyone be kept separate from the life of the institutions and from the perspective of the Government, in compliance with the principle of separation of powers. Let us not tear ourselves apart from the constitutional rules, but let us jealously preserve the unitary heritage of our democratic system. That the rule of law had no partisan interpretations and that no position was superordained to the law, before which all are equal. To avoid the explosion of institutional conflicts, especially between politics and the judiciary and above all against the Quirinale. We supported these positions because we see the risks of clouding democracy, which are present in the growing disenchantment of many citizens, but also in the inocular, day after day, drops of exceptionalism in the legal and institutional culture of the country. From today we hope that we can start again, in a better way and with a faster pace. As of today nothing will be the same as before, whatever the outcome of the vote we will soon have. Not with the carefreeness of those who have escaped a difficult trial or of those who are content with a solution however, but with the awareness that the path will be complicated, unpublished and not everything in our hands, but that we will nevertheless do everything our duty, in the name of the Italian people that we are responsibly called to represent. The Democratic Party will continue to put responsibility and courage as you asked, because this is what the country asks us to do. Thank you and good work. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE)]] Congratulations.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u56	The debate is closed. I would like to inform the House that, in addition to Senator Calderoli's motion for resolution No 1, motions for resolutions No 2, by Senators Zeller and others, and No 3, by Senator Taverna and others, whose text is being distributed, have also been tabled. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Letta, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not sleep tonight, as I think many people in this House do. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I did not sleep because I had the perception that today would probably have been a day with historical implications, in some ways dramatic, however important in the history of our democracy. All in all, it was not too difficult for me, because I knew how I would vote today, and I had no doubt, as I will have no doubt this afternoon in the House to give my vote to our Government. But I know that the suffering that has accompanied these days the choices of many Members of Parliament, of many senators here and of many Members who will speak later in the House, has been, and still is, a heavy and significant labour, a labor of those who must be respected. It is a labor that has been heard in the words of many. I would like to thank them all: both those who have expressed the critical, deeply critical words that I have heard about me and about us these days and that I have heard about me and about us today, and those who have chosen today to make difficult choices, not easy. And I begin by expressing my thanks, and of course a closeness, to Senator Paola De Pin. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI, Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UP) and PSI-MAIE Groups) and Mixed and Senators Scoma and Gualdani]] I have to say that I would have said this even if Senator Paola De Pin had stood up and intervened to announce that her vote would have been against my government. I say this because the way in which he spoke to any of us (whether you appreciate it or not, whether you are happy with the way in which he expressed his vote) shows what difficult, difficult and complex choices mean. I think - and I address my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - that respect for the freedom of the person is the basis of substantial democracy. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI, LN-Aut, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, and Mixed Groups.]] I respect and listen; I have heard so many things, about many of which you are right, but I can't take any more moral lessons from those who threaten because one has changed his mind. [[Live and sustained applause from the PD, SCP, LN-Aut, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL and Mixed Senators Scoma, Gualdani and Chiavaroli]] SCILIPOTI (PdL). He didn't think so two years ago! [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u58	Senator Scilipoti, I invite you to sit down.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u59	[[Comments by Senator Scilipoti. Protests from the PD Group.]] SCILIPOTI (PdL). She said otherwise! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scilipoti, you don't have the floor. He wanted to earn a space on live television. It was good. Bravo! [[Applause from the PD, M5S, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and LN-Aut Groups]] Have a seat. I would ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to resume your speech. Mr LETTA, President of the Council of Ministers. The debate we have been witnessing has given us a sense of the dramatic nature of the passage we are experiencing. I am not going to take back all the things that have been said, because here I want above all to refer to an essential concept: today we are faced with a passage that obviously changes the nature of what we are doing and puts us in front of very difficult objectives, because obviously the numbers that support the Government change, because the situation of our country is complex and because the objectives that we have before, starting from the European Presidency, will be particularly delicate. We are and will be engaged with the utmost determination - as Mr Martini has just pointed out, which I fully agree with - not to expire on low-profile solutions; if we have held the position we have shown in these days it is simply because I have the conviction that it would have been better to fall on its feet rather than go to low-profile solutions. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI, Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Mixed and Naccarato and Bianconi senators]] As Senator De Cristofaro said, and I appreciated that passage of his intervention because I share it, we start from different positions and assessments compared to what happened, but we all have at heart the fact that today in our country, faced with the prospect of an early dissolution, in the situation in which we are, we would be harming the Italian economy and our institutions, because after the elections we would find ourselves again here, practically or almost in similar conditions, having to resume the ranks, the pieces of a broken vase. I will strive with all my strength, with the same style and attitude that I have held over the last few months, to try instead to achieve those goals. We can reach them, despite the fact that the numbers of this majority today change. I would add that, with real gratitude, I would like to thank all those who have voted with this majority and who will not do so today, and all those who have also participated in the Government in this majority and have worked in these five months and who will not continue to work. I say this because these five months of work, as far as I am concerned, have profoundly altered in me the feeling and sense of urgency of the things that the country needs today and, above all, lead me to say that there is a very strong need on some major issues. I listened, Senator Scavone, to your passages on the Mezzogiorno. I think you have also listened to my speech and you know that we play a lot about these issues, because I am one of those who think that if we let go of the Mezzogiorno of our country with the idea that so irreformable the country is not saved as a whole. Above all we also know that if we start again from there, solving those problems, we will probably succeed in making the whole country attractive and fly of change. To do this, however, we need to be clear and clear in the things we need to say and in what we need to do. The work, Senator Nencini mentioned it before, and I share what he said, will be the heart, as it has been in these five months. I repeat what I said earlier. It was not a postponement, if yesterday 5,500 young people got a job thanks to the package of measures to tax the work that this Government has put in place. To those 5,500 people the decisions we have all made together here have changed life, and I am proud of this fact: that they have changed life, thanks to choices that we have made. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] Senator Susta spoke of a new majority and a new covenant. Now we have to get to work to put it into practice in relation to the concrete things that we have to accomplish, in relation to commitments that are not simple. The fact, Senator Panizza said, I still respect a debate about being, and he's right. Senators Volpi and Divina have both touched on a series of very sensitive issues in their speeches. First of all, be careful because the de-taxation plan for young people's work is a plan covering the whole of Italy. It's also about the Northern Regions. I'm saying this because I wouldn't want the people listening to to get the wrong ideas. That plan is a plan that has an intensity for the South and that provides for significant intervention for young people in the North, because we all know very well how much unemployment and youth unemployment affects the North as well, as I know and we know very well that at European level - as you mentioned earlier - the fundamental issue of macro-regional regroupings is a matter that is at the heart of Italy. On 18 October, we will hold a meeting with other European States to develop, for example, the theme of the Alpine macro-region, demonstrating that institutional flexibility on these issues and the application of the principle of subsidiarity, which is at the heart of the Maastricht Treaty, is part of the DNA with which we are trying to work, to work, to try to go in the direction of that work on the subject of Europe. Even today I have spoken a lot about Europe, and Senator Compagna has rightly pointed that out. I did it because - Mr Casini, you are the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of this Parliament knows as much as I do - or we are able to profoundly change the course that we all have to go together, or what we can do here is the least we can do. I said it and I want to repeat it. We have had a five-year European legislature based on the logic of backwardness and austerity, and that is it. Soon a new European legislature will begin, the one that runs from 2014 to 2019, which will have to be based on logics of centrality of growth and work, and it will be the Italian semester, which begins exactly with the beginning of that legislature, which will have to give the. How will we Italians get there? Are we going to get locked in our internal diatribes or with the idea of playing, once again, the central game that Italy has played in the past? Senator Bondi has also been quoted before (many have done so) as a theme linked to the governments of the first Republic. I want to recall two passages, to which I want to refer, because I consider them fundamental in Italian and European history. When did Italy play a historic role in Europe? When he played the attack, when he drove the European route. It is no coincidence that there were two major European passages, the Single European Act of 1985 and the Maastricht Treaty of December 1991, which were prepared by the 1985 Milan European Council and the 1990 Rome European Council respectively. They were two choices that saw Italy attacking, Italy in Europe, Italy playing not the part of those behind the board because it did not do the tasks and is put in a corner by others, but the role that belongs to us. The Treaty of Rome is called this because it was done in Rome, because Europe was born in Italy and must be guided by the Italian idea of a greater and much stronger Europeanism than today. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Bianconi]] But of course we want another Europe than today, which is why we want to move in that direction with great strength and determination. On this we will involve Parliament: I will soon come, together with my fellow ministers who are dealing with these issues, to discuss with you the positions that we must take to make our six months the one that can change the way of Europe and also the role of our country. We are faced with these great opportunities: today, to live a historic day and take decisions, but above all tomorrow, to work, to try to apply the choices we are talking about here. Working and discussing, I am convinced that we will be able to do our best for this Parliament. For this reason, Mr President, in accordance with the deliberations which the Council of Ministers took a few days ago at the last meeting, I put my trust in the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Zeller, Zanda, Monti, Chiavaroli, Susta and other senators, to whom I obviously relate the life and future of this Government. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Torrisi, Bianconi and Pagano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u60	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u63	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the decision of the President-in-Office of the Council, supported by the Head of State, to impose decisive clarification in Parliament, to reject the resignation of the PdL Ministers and not to present himself to us today as a resigning Government. We therefore agree that it should present itself in Parliament before the country as an Executive that proposes to the Chambers and political forces a renewed and explicit pact for the coming years, a pact on the government programme able to achieve continuity and stability, as the only possible response to a crisis opened unilaterally by President Berlusconi, who imposed first the mass resignation of the MPs of the PdL and then those of its Ministers. This unprecedented attitude is completely irresponsible and has led to political and institutional conflicts of absolute seriousness, as the President of the Republic has also said. The pressing and repeated requests made to the Head of State and the President of the Council for guarantees against a final criminal sentence, relating to a crime of absolute gravity, are unacceptable and improper, as well as the will to impose the early dissolution of the Chambers. These are acts and positions that have led to pressures and attacks, in open conflict with constitutional principles, against the President of the Republic and irresponsibly undermined the conditions necessary for the action of the Government. It is truly disconcerting that in such a difficult situation for the country, while we could see the first timid signs of recovery, all the difficult work of the Government of recent months, shared also by the PDL, is frustrated. The aim of this kamikaze action is in the eyes of all: to drag the country towards new elections to avoid the Senate vote on decadence and to try to overturn, with a popular vote, the judgment of the judiciary to which it was reached after three degrees of judgment. All this contradicts its promises, repeated for months, of wanting to separate its judicial and government affairs. The casus belli for this crisis of government chosen by Berlusconi, that is the increase of VAT, is in fact a fairy tale to which no one believes. The proposal to withdraw the resignation of the MPs of the PDL and to freeze the resignation of the five ministers, in order to have the law of stability approved in a week, the IMU decree and to solve the VAT problem, is also ridiculous to say the least. The price that the Italian people risk paying for this irresponsible attitude is very high. Our European partners and markets are looking unbelievingly at the spectacle of the last few days: a truly indecent and certainly not worthy of Italy. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and SCP]] We as the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE strongly oppose this attempt to break up the country. I would also like to remind all of us that we are now accustomed to the most incredible actions, taking note of them without great amazement. In other countries, it wouldn't take a Severino law to discharge a convicted politician. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and SCP]] In Germany a President of the Republic resigned for 700 euros, after the mere accusation that he had stayed with his family at the expense of an entrepreneur: that is to say without being put to trial or even sentenced. The Germans may seem exaggerated to us as far as fairness is concerned, but unfortunately the opposite extreme is us. We are at the side of the Head of State and the President-in-Office of the Council who call for a pact for the functioning of the institutions and the protection of the public interest. Your Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has recognised the constitutional reasons, the strengthening of special autonomy, and has consistently worked and discussed the full development of the pact for self-government. On this basis, with its Government, the dispute before the Constitutional Court with the Regions and the self-governments has been greatly reduced, in full respect and promotion of the special autonomy. In the course of its short government action important results have been obtained in this direction, first, with the signing of the Memorandum of Bolzano, which has been partially already implemented with the restoration of responsibilities in the field of retail and urban trade and with the start of the solution for signs in the mountains. In the fundamental government was the role of the Minister for Regional Affairs, Graziano Delrio, and of the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Dario Franceschini, who have consistently worked to enhance and safeguard the autonomy. For these reasons, too, we reaffirm our support and support for your Government and what priority we confirm our commitment to the next law of stability and the reform of the electoral law. The reform of the electoral law, beyond the possible pronouncements of the Constitutional Court, must be a priority even in the absence of the necessary constitutional reforms, even if it would be desirable to precede the revision of the current electoral legislation. The electoral law is a parliamentary matter - we know that - but this does not exclude that the government can have a role. The prejudices and counterpositions that have characterized the immobilism of the Chambers, in these months, impose a different and more stringent initiative of the Government in Parliament. Continuity in budgetary and economic policy choices is essential and it is essential to ensure budgetary conditions that reduce the tax burden, primarily in support of households and businesses. With regard to the recent increase in VAT, we are today paying the consequences, not of the action of the Letta Government, but of measures proposed by the previous Berlusconi and Monti Governments. I would also like to reiterate that it is time that Italians were told the truth, avoiding easy promises and false illusions. We need to get out of the logic of the electoral campaign and work for our citizens. Fiscal consolidation will not take place in one or two years. One-off sacrifices or short-term spot measures are not enough. A long and, of course, not easy path awaits us. Even Germany, which ten years ago was considered the sick person of Europe, took ten years to recover and to become again, after a rigorous and even painful policy of tax and labour market reforms, the locomotive of the eurozone. The situation in our public accounts does not allow us to make tax gifts for everyone, rich and poor alike. We must also tell the Italians unpopular things, that taxes on the first house are paid throughout Europe... [[Applause from Senator Ichino).]] .and Italy is certainly not in a position to do without it today. We call for a realistic, pragmatic and honest policy, and President Letta and his Government for us are the guarantors that will go in this direction. The IMU exemption on the first house is good for the less well-off, but not for everyone. The few resources available must be used to lighten the tax burden on businesses and employees and must not be wasted on tax gifts to the wealthy. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and SCP]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u64	Senator Zeller, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u65	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr. President, I'm finishing. This crisis is also a chance for all of us to free ourselves from these irresponsible and unrealistic demands, made from a purely electoral and populistic perspective. President Letta, as the Group For the Autonomous-PSI-MAIE, we hope that, with the vote of the Senate, the conditions will be met for a politically declared and conscious majority, renewing the pact of trust to its Government. I therefore vote in favour of the majority resolution by our Group. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and SCP. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u68	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President of the Senate, President Letta, for you there is all the appreciation of the members of the Great Autonomous and Freedom Group. Our compliments to you for your seriousness, your courtesy and your prudent determination. To her also my personal gratitude for the experience that I could mature in Palazzo Chigi, where I appreciated her ability to synthesis, and therefore command. This is, so far, the same prologue that I had written in the past days and hours, when I was ripening the passages that I would have recited in this House in the speech on the vote of confidence. But now the mas start. And the but they begin because, yes, I am called, with the consent of my colleagues, to represent this Group, but ours, like that of the Autonomies, is actually a mixed Group, made by various components, but all elected in a center-right alliance. Mr Comrade has already spoken. In motion for resolution No 2 there are the signatures of other senators, such as Senator Naccarato and Senator Bianconi. So I hope that my explanation of vote, which will be different and punctual in the final, in its general considerations will be respectful of all colleagues. Let's continue with the mas. Mr President, the exceptional nature that the President-in-Office of the Council has allowed you to do, even if he permits, with our little, determined and convinced support, is distinct from the fact that she had not been a candidate for this, and that she had not been voted for. As he says, there is a natural nature, a constitutional materiality, already observed several times, last in 2008, when President Napolitano chose, after an institutional attempt carried out by President Marini, to dissolve the Chambers, in compliance with that constitutional materiality. The exceptionality in the previous vote of confidence in his Government was based on an important, solemn, key, international word. It was founded on the word "pacification." The speech you have made in this House is a subject of another word, not 'pacification', but 'loyalty'. She calls all the senators in this House to loyalty: loyalty to the people, loyalty to voters, voters who need work, less taxes, efficiency, continuity, Europe and internationalisation. But loyalty, Mr President, and colleagues all, mainly those of the Group of the Great Autonomies and Freedoms, is the way to an end. The medium, however, is built in the particular value that each of us gives to loyalty, and the value is built through an intimate judgment on personal correctness, on our sincerity. From this intimate judgment our behavior should always descend. Weber speaks of political behavior, that is, political morality, that is, of the expression of our ethics, an ethics that in politics must assign a different role to good and evil, in order to be able to choose what to do between the least evil and the greatest good. For some Members, their loyalty is to vote for trust, Mr President. Not for me. This is not the case for me, because you, in your speech, have forgotten the word pacification. She mentioned Einaudi and Cross. I allow myself to quote Thomas More: he is a saint, he unites us all. Thomas Moro said that if you say the right things and then you do the wrong things you can't have the trust of others. Ella, President, had spoken well. That is why we voted for this government, but it seems to me that it has lost the right path in the streets hastily paved by a left too quarrelsome, too justiceist, too fatious and still too arrogant. Mine, our fidelity, the fidelity of MPA's colleagues in the Great South, is to live up to the primary contract signed at the time of our candidacy, choosing a program and indicating a leader of the coalition. For me, for us, the faith in that draft, in that signed programme and for which we have been elected is what we want to respect by exercising our electoral mandate. This more alleviates my doubts, the doubts that we have shared with our colleagues. This attenuates my torment, soothes my sadness. We, the President, want to maintain what we consider our primary commitment: we do it for the South, we do it for the self-government, we do it for freedom. In our opinion and for our meaning of loyalty, we do so for Italy. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u71	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we do not miss today's narrow passage; we do not miss the political fact that we can and are about to determine - i.e. the split within the PdL - and we certainly think that, precisely for the democratic stability of our country, it is a positive fact. We consider this to be so because perhaps today a situation can arise which in the field we are opposed to can lead to an evolution, perhaps in line - hopefully - with the European centre of right. This political element is certainly an element for everyone's attention, but we do not just look at it as political analysts. We know that today there is a possibility of clearly avoiding that Berlusconi put on the field, once again instrumentally; the possibility of an early vote after the dissolution of the Chambers in order to avoid having its decadence voted by the Senate. It is clear, therefore, that as far as we are concerned - as my colleague Mr De Cristofaro said - we are absolutely opposed to any such hypothesis. We have worked in recent months for the reaffirmation of the principle of legality. If this country succeeds today and in the future to prove that the law is the same for all and that no one can be unpunished, this will really represent the possibility of closing with the Berlusconian twenty years. But, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, precisely because we do not miss this narrow and historic passage, we would have liked on your part - you know perfectly well - a sign of discontinuity. We do not want to be the figure of the talking crickets, but in saying no to the broad understandings we had predicted that it would come soon enough to this node, that it would be impossible to think of leading a government for the good of the country with those who precisely do not recognize the principle of legality, with those who do not recognize and every day defy other powers of the State. You said that you will not be satisfied with a low profile; here, exactly we asked you and we would have liked that there was today in your communications the sign of a change, not of a low profile, not of a continuity, maybe not of broad but of medium understanding: a programmatic discontinuity, but not because you had to interlogate with us, but because this is what the country asks for. The country, President, not only asks to close with Berlusconi, but to close with Berlusconism, to close with a phase that has impoverished our country. We would have liked to hear from his words the sign that a different phase was beginning, not only from the programmatic point of view, but also from the point of view of a vision for the country, that it would put in motion a strong idea of change. You have made a list of all the positive things today; I could make you another list of all the things that have not been positive in the action of the government, of the things that have not been addressed, of the dramatic and structural issues, so we still have data on unemployment and suffering today. No day goes by without a person losing his job; no day goes by that there is no dramatic employment situation. Therefore, these months have not been positive; then we have hoped, President, we have really hoped that today you had the strength to strike a wing, to say that now a different phase has begun, in which all of us, yes, are responsible but because we have to change, we have to make sure that this country can be put back on the road, that this country can have a principle of hope again. That, in your words, Mr President, we have not heard. We have raised a serious issue precisely because we think that today we are all doing again an act of fidelity to the Constitution. We would have liked to hear different words about constitutional reforms; we would have liked to hear different words about the choices that have been made up to now, that would first preserve our constitutional principles, because at the bottom of this we are talking today, about who will be faithful to the end of the Constitution and who, in all these months and hours, has tried and tries to question it. We would have liked to hear this, because - I repeat - the country needed to be reassured not only that with a part of the PdL it could go ahead, but that there was the intention, on the part of the government, to change the register, giving signals and making clear and precise proposals also on Europe. Mr President, it is no longer enough for us to recite our fidelity to the dream of the United States of Europe every time, as we do here every time. We would have liked to hear what a strong line, for example, we were going to call for a loosening of the Stability Pact, because our regions and our municipalities are failing; we would have liked to hear one or two questions on the basis of which we should try to re-treat the Treaties. This is what the country needs to hear today; it feels the need for there not only to be a reassurance that a substantial part of its Government continues its path, but that a new, completely different phase begins. For this reason, President Letta, we cannot vote for trust in your Government: we cannot vote for it because that discontinuity that the country asks us to face the great problems, the great suffering that it is going through, we have not heard it. You know that we have scrupulously entered into the merit of every measure and that we have never made a preconceived opposition and we have tried to make our contribution to improving all the measures, but you had to come here today to say that a different phase began: the country needs not only to hear it, but to see concretely begin a new phase that can take us out of this crisis and above all reaffirm the strong principles of democracy. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senator Romani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u74	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Mr Letta, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of April we listened carefully to your speech on the occasion of the inauguration of this Government, a speech which I would call broad and sincerely acceptable in some areas: from the proposals to tackle and defeat the economic crisis to the structural reforms to be implemented within eighteen months (you say from today, but in fact you had already said so last time and therefore from then on the eighteen months had to start). By winking also at us of the League, he then mentioned regional autonomy and federalism (today he also spoke for the first time of macro-region). On these specific commitments, we did not vote against you, Mr President, or your ministers. This was a credit opening, which we did in the hope that something good could be achieved in that dream book. Then the harsh reality: the promises have become only talk; for the expected economic reforms, the cutting of taxes for families and businesses, the halving of the number of parliamentarians, the Federal Senate, the electoral reform, the cancellation of the financing to the parties, the reform of the justice, the separation of the careers, the civil and criminal responsibility of the magistrates, the approval of the standard costs in the public administration will then have to wait for the referendum? They are all shared reforms, but they have remained in the drawer and the economic situation has deteriorated. Thus the stagnation, deflation, the contraction of consumption and the cancellation of entire North productive realities have become the recurring words, vanished in your vocabulary the words "resumed" and "growth." This failure of your economic policy is certified by the data, other than resuming at the door. We're on content and not fairy tales. I do not know what indicators you have used, but the reality is this: the net debt on GDP (and here we expect a further maneuver, as you know, because we have exceeded the 3% ceiling) is at 3.1; the government debt ratio on GDP is 133%; the annual GDP change is at 1.7%; the unemployment rate (and is a record since 1977) with 3.1 million unemployed, is at 12.2 percent [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group;]] Youth unemployment, as has also been mentioned by my colleagues, is 40%; imports are at -1.6%; the reduction in national consumption was 0.3%, revenue in the seven months of VAT of -3.2 billion and total exports of 1.9 percent; total expenditure, including the interests of the public administration, exceeds 807 billion. The public debt, also this figure is resounding, has then reached 2,070 billion. The tax burden at 44 percent, but the real tax burden on companies is 68 percent, this is the reality, so an entrepreneur from January until October works only to pay taxes to the state. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Industrial production is still declining, domestic demand continues to contract and will continue to do so in 2015. There are 30 failures a day, since the beginning of the year 10,000 companies have closed down or, worse, they have gone delocalizing in Carinthia, Switzerland and Croatia and we have done nothing to keep them in Italy. Between 2012 and 2013, there were 120 suicides, mainly in the North-East. President Letta, the fall in real estate sales is 15% and, since August last year, the loss of competitiveness of companies has been 2.1%; at the end of May the loans had been reduced by 3.6% over the twelve months: this is a war bulletin. Is that enough for you? At last, now, the PdL begins to realize also the inability of this Government to act. The increase in the VAT rate follows a season of referrals and mockery, such as that of the service tax. Here we need a clarification, because the service tax on cadastral income in my home is called ICI or IMU, nothing changes for citizens at all. That is the reality! The municipalities, which are obliged to provide services to the citizen, will not be able to give up even one euro of these taxes. You have managed to increase VAT, which will affect families (with 350 euros per year of higher spending for each family) and final consumers, especially those with low incomes that have a greater propensity to consume. Then there will also come the increase in excise duties on fuels and the shame of the covers with the new games, and I want to reiterate it here, because it is our motion against ludopathy and in favour of the one year shift of the entry into force of the new games that you invented, online games that hit families. [[Applause from the LNP-Aut groups and Senator De Pietro]] Why not implement our motion and approve a one-year moratorium on new games, gambling rooms, slot machines and online games? Then approve our proposal for a law of legalization of prostitution - I make a strong statement - which, in addition to hitting exploitation, would bring new revenue into the state coffers, as in Germany, where more than 5 billion per year come from such legalization. Make serious proposals on the labour market, delete the Fornero law, which created 500,000 exodus and blocked the labour market! [[Applause from the PD Group]] You must encourage work/school alternation, which has produced excellent results in Germany. Let us be honest, the measures that have been tried have proved to be essentially useless. If the damage caused by doing nothing for the economy and growth is not enough, there are those you produced when you tried to do something or when you announced changes, for example, to the rules on illegal immigration. The Minister's statements on the ius soli and the proposals for the cancellation of the crime of illegal immigration have contributed - and that is the truth, Mr President - to increasing the landings of illegal immigrants, which are almost 10,000 since the beginning of the year. [[Applause from the LNP-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia]] You did not want to continue bilateral agreements with the Mediterranean countries, as Minister Maroni did with Libya and Tunisia. This is the way: to prevent them from leaving and not pulling them on our shores, dear Minister! Again, stubbornness in bringing forward absurd proposals such as the one on homophobia: I want to continue to say, without being tried or receiving a warning of guarantee, that homosexuals cannot marry and adopt children, and that the family, the real one, is as Barilla means and not as others mean! [[Applause from the LNP-Aut Group.]] I would like a Catholic like you, Mr President, to be open, liberal and modern to solve the problem of the legalization of prostitution, firm and resolute when it comes to the founding values of the traditional family. [[Applause from the LNP-Aut Group.]] Not to mention what you have not done in the field of security: you have approved the empty prisons and you have the courage to propose another indult. Criminals have to stay inside jails and not out of jail. President Letta, we sincerely also have a certain sympathy for you. You are an honest and transparent politician, you understand that you make politics out of passion; but let alone those who propose you to increase excise duties and taxes and move decisively towards cutting public spending. The 1% cut in public expenditure is 8 billion, which would have prevented the increase in VAT, the whole IMU, ICI and other taxes you put in. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The broad agreements had to serve, as in Germany, to deal with the necessary structural reforms, reforms that have not arrived and not even been sketched out. Stability cannot be the only value: nothing about federalism (you have blocked the implementing decrees) anything about simplification and sburocratization; nothing about the northern issue. You, President, had a specific warrant...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u75	Please conclude, time is up.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u76	BITONCI (LN-Aut). We asked her, in order to safeguard the companies of the North, to set up a macro-region that could retain 75% of the taxes: she did not comply with this commitment and the distrust we do not only give it here to the Senate, but they give it to the families and businesses of that productive North that keeps all this carriage. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u79	MONTI (SPI). Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, President Casini and President Susta have already made clear the prospects, expectations, concerns and hopes which the Civic Choice Group has for Italy towards the Letta Government at this very delicate and important stage. I would like to add a word of appeal to the members of the PdL, in order to bear in mind that Italy, despite the efforts of its Government, has not yet emerged from a critical, economic situation, as we well know, but not financial, and that many in the markets and international institutions are thinking, sometimes with some satisfaction, of doing what they would have wanted to do in October-November 2011, but that Italy, reacting with commitment and national unity, has prevented them from doing: to commit our country, not through those constraints that we today call the police station and that all the Member States of the European Union have, but with special constraints dedicated to countries that are not able to stand for themselves. Italy today is the only country in Mediterranean Europe that is not in this condition and is the only country in Mediterranean Europe that is no longer even under the excessive deficit procedure: I do not want to think that the PdL, which is part of the largest and most influential political family in Europe, whose role has been confirmed with the electoral success of Chancellor Merkel, can make Italy run the risk of retracing back that path that we have all tirelessly crossed. And anyone who governs in the next five or ten years Italy, if Italy needs support, and therefore the neo-colonial jersey that I am talking about, anyone who governs in the future should go, not say on my knees, but certainly without authority to international fora, and all the good things that we rightly say in this House - we want a Europe that resonates more with an Italian will - we could forget them for five, ten, fifteen years. That's why I can't assume that the PdL can really think at this moment of bringing the country down by taking away the trust of this government. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD Groups).]] Of course, we must at the same time avoid giving our citizens and the world a spectacle that induces them to say that the situation in Italy is really serious, but not serious. This would be achieved if the appeals that many of us have made to our PdL colleagues to take over the sense of responsibility were too successful, if the PdL voted for the confidence in a block (which would be desirable), but in order to avoid a defeat today and to move forward quietly to do, in many cases, opposition to the Government, thinking of the next elections and doing so in the comfortable warm belly of the majority. You'd get to the farce President Casini was talking about. Only you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, can the Government protect the country and the majority from this risk. You spoke, President Letta, of a real new pact. It is necessary, and Civic Choice, as you know, felt necessary from the outset and had proposed to the President to conclude a precise coalition pact. We cannot continue in a situation in which, for example, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance is the subject of a daily shooting, peremptory in tones, demagogic in content and vulgar in words, not by opposition representatives but by group leaders of major majority parties. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]] We encourage the President-in-Office of the Council and ask him to conclude with a majority that will vote for him a pact that will be clear in its content, in its final timing (for us this final time is the end of this parliamentary term and not before) and in the intermediate times for individual decisions and their implementation; we also ask him to define, as is the case in Germany, the way of being in the majority. For example, you must not accept, Mr President (and I am sure you will not) that the ministers of the PdL should be defined, and that they should define themselves, as sometimes happened, the watchmen against tax. Firstly, none of them has, at least in the current structure of the Government, to my knowledge, institutional duties in tax matters. Second: even in the collegiality of the Government and the majority, it is not acceptable, and in any case Civic Choice does not accept, that a party should present itself as a watchman anti-tax. What does that mean, by difference? We all want lower taxes on workers, businesses and families, but some of us, without shouting this goal every day, want us to work in practice to make the reduction possible, especially for the main way of reducing expenditure. You spoke of the virtuous reduction of 1.7 billion in 2013. It was 10 billion in 2012 by the previous Government, after the current public expenditure, net of interest and social benefits, had risen by 117 billion between 2000 and 2011: 96 billion in the nine years of Government of Berlusconi and 21 billion in the two years of Government Prodi. It is therefore reducing public spending that can be responsibly reduced taxes, and when there is some room to reduce taxes, we want the government not to flatten itself to the electoral needs of a party, as unfortunately happened on the issue of the IMU on the first house. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]] In so doing, we have achieved a positive result and three negative results. The positive one, undoubtedly, was the political success of the PdL; the three negative results, the ones borne by the country, were a regressive fiscal maneuver (which favors the rich to the detriment of the poor), recessive (because it made impossible a wide intervention to reduce the tax wedge with advantages for competitiveness and therefore for growth) and also a maneuver that unfortunately reduced the credibility of the Italian economic policy (it turns out to me that that carousel of covers), that began to travel the air of the political debate, did not make good impression in the international fora, in which some doubts arose, even if we are very reassured, President Letta, from his statement on 3 percent this year and in the years to come). If anyone goes back to talking about anti-tax sentries, but I do not believe that this will happen after the courageous act that today they make with great personal sacrifice the Ministers belonging to the PdL (I don't think they will lend themselves to these qualifications), announce that, within the Government, in Parliament and in the face of public opinion, Civic Choice for Italy will be placed as a watchman against fiscal illusions. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u80	Senator Monti, I invite you to conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u81	MONTI (SPI). I shall conclude, Mr President. For competitiveness, growth and the real job of young people, we need to take up the path of structural reforms with determination. For this, a great coalition is necessary, but it is not enough. It is better to have a smaller coalition, like perhaps the coalition that is expected, but in which the President-in-Office of the Council is the leader of reformist efforts. I should like to end by saying a respectful greeting to President Berlusconi (I am sorry he is not here now), at this moment of great personal difficulty. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] I remember that, about a year ago, he invited me to take the lead of the Italian moderates. What I said to him then perhaps is happening today: President, I'm flattered, but I don't think Italy needs this. I believe that Italy needs to work together those who, sitting at the centre, on the right or on the left, are available to the reform process. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]] I also told him: For example, Mr President, if a piece of the PdL led by Mr Alfano and a piece of the PD led by Mr Letta participated in this reinforced reformism, I believe that Italy would go in the right direction. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli. Laughter from the PD Group.]] So, I'm glad something like this happens somehow. As you may have understood, today the Civic Choice Group for Italy will confirm its confidence in you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and in your Government and will therefore vote in favour of motion for resolution No 2, before Senator Zeller. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u84	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President Letta, I would like to remind you that the 5 Star Movement is against all forms of violence, whether verbal or physical, as I am happy to remind you that, as you come here today to ask for confidence in your work, the 5 Star Movement has been elected with the confidence of nine million citizens to operate in a certain way. No one has to answer to us; both the senators present in this House and the government will respond exclusively to the citizens of what they do. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We remember something we did. There is so much talk of Taliban and dissidents, perhaps because that of hawks and doves is a more graceful classification or perhaps because the PdL makes less news of the 5 Star Movement or perhaps simply because the press is slightly biased, but our split is presumed, while today the other's is more than ever evident. What is happening these days is not just yet another slap in the face of the constitutional order, it is not just the desperate subversive maneuvers of the leader of a political party that risks sinking: here it is a whole country that is sinking. Other than the political agibility of a single: here is the collective survival of this nation at stake! It would be almost obvious to retrace Senator Berlusconi's brilliant political career, but let's remember some facts. Card No. 1816 of P2... [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Famous illegal and subversive Masonic lodges, dozens of ad personam or company laws passed in the last twenty years by this Parliament to dodge the last minute sentences and now a four-year sentence for tax fraud, thanks to a law voted by irony of fate, just by his party. But Senator Berlusconi, with all due respect, is just the past. Have a good ride home, Horseman! She would like to continue to face her trials as a senator or, as it used to be, as Premier! This time no more praises Alfano, no more legitimate impediments. Maybe the PD will even give us the gift, for once, not to be your wingman anymore, as in the past... [[Applause from the M5S Group]] .. presenting, I know, a Letta praise: is it in your program, President? All we have to do is apply the law, both in the Council and in the House, and we would like it to be without a secret vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's face it when we say that the law in Italy is the same for everyone! We cannot say that we will miss it, simply because there is not even today: considering 99% of its absences, it is already an event to see it among us, in the face of responsibility for the country! Yes, because you were the Government of those responsible, but you were responsible for the increase in VAT to 22%; you consciously forgot about the much-warned abolition of the IMU on the first house that we had proposed in some of the amendments to which PdL, PD and SCPI voted. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Perhaps they did not appreciate the fact that the coverage indicated by us was due to the increase in taxes on financial contracts... [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ..and the profits of gaming dealers. Risk penalising friends of friends who run slot machines? Never. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The pockets of the common mortals are already comfortable to find the 1,900 million euros you have condoned him; much more important (if nothing else) quickly and furiously modify the Constitution, born from the rebirth after the tragedy of the Second World War and dictatorship, delegation the operation to 40 essays and circumventing that article 138 that is the guarantee of our democracy and our freedom. Climbing a roof is a serious outrage to the institutions [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] To sweep away with a sponge stroke instead is a due act. If this is wisdom, blessed ignorance! All you've done in these years is scorn you with 60 million people. In these days you have staged the umpteenth episode giving the best of you: I get up in the morning and have resigned the MPs of the PdL but there is no crisis; I have breakfast and I resign also the Ministers; I brush my teeth and you have all withdrawn them; time to take the child to school and there is the crisis of government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On the other hand, this Executive would not be a great loss. Do we want to remember any of your exploits? 30 July 2013: The 5 Star Movement presents an amendment to block the increase in VAT; financial coverage guaranteed through cuts to unnecessary megaprojects of the Ministry of Defence, increase of the tax on financial transactions from 0.2 to 1% (the famous Tobin tax), and reduction of 2% of all expenses of public administrations obviously excluding school, health, culture, research that, as a rule, are the first sectors where you go to beat cash. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Election refunds, good old public funding to the parties, that of the referendum ignored, I don't know if you remember: 92 million euros (a nice sum). And you, President Letta, on 24 May 2013 promised the Italians that you would abolish it. Just one signature would be enough. The 5 Star Movement has already returned the 42 million euros that would have been due to us: you don't need all this money to support your ideas, if you have them. How it doesn't take 14,000 euros a month to live dignifiedly as a parliamentarians, while you claim that Italian citizens, when lucky, camp with 700 euros! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We proposed to set up citizenship income and you laughed at us. On the other hand, the slogan "Nobody has to stay behind" has pleased you so much that you ended up copying it. But we're not jealous. Copy also our proposals and ideas instead of always saying no: make them a good time! F-35: The 5 Star Movement proposes the cutting of the program. For a change, not yet. It could have been €1,300 million a year for the real economy, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for social services for which money is never there. We wanted to suspend the payment of IRAP for small businesses employing at least five young people. No way! We continue to send new graduates abroad with one-way ticket. We wanted to abolish the TARES, further bloodshed inherited from the Government of the technicians: we wanted to insert the punctual rate: more recycles less pay, more pollutes more pay. Hard to understand? Evidently, because you said no this time too. This majority has not even been able to produce an effective law against homophobia: even when it is not money but ethical principles that are at stake you cannot do the right thing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, you would like to allow religious parties and organizations to make discriminatory statements by selling them for freedom of opinion. We were the first to ask in 2007 to change the electoral law. We did so by presenting the proposal 'Clean Parliament', the proposal that you have ignored for six years, which is tantamount to banning the signatures of 350,000 citizens: a vote of preference, a maximum of two legislative acts without - I repeat - exceptions, decadence and incandidateness of the condemned. You didn't even need the Severino law to know what was the right thing to do. 29 May 2013: another date that we will remember, mostly because for the first time you can fail a proposal that was not ours. In the House, PD and PdL vote against the motion Giachetti, his party partner, President Letta, not one of those triggers that classified according to the convenience of the day. But you live, on a public television, in the early evening you lie, you lie in method and merit. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Tell the Italians that we do not want to change the porcellum to chatter, while you support it with the facts. Not only do we have many proposals for the right things to do, we have managed to get them approved even different, defending them with teeth and nails. Thanks to the 5 Star Movement's amendments, the law against political-mafia electoral exchange has been corrected, the rules against feminicide have been strengthened and improved, the priority payment of companies over banks has become a reality. We will not do the usual, we will see, or "VeDrò" to use the name of a famous foundation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Our proposals have been put into practice to suspend the debitory records of those who have claims against the State, to set up a fund for microcredit in favour of companies with the money cut into politics and we are still waiting for the implementing decree from your Executive. We have obtained rules to develop the network in rural areas, to finally have transparent and meritorious appointments in participating societies. PD and PdL have often shown us to be complementary: never as it is difficult to distinguish one from another at this time. He lies, President Letta, about the electoral law, just in the same ignoble way in which the knight Berlusconi lies about VAT. Same ways and same aims: to kick off the election campaign by making fun of us citizens. The real and profound crisis is of the Italian people, who can no longer even understand what is happening. A President-in-Office of the Council is not just any politician, a President-in-Office of the Council is an institutional figure, one of the highest positions of the State: he expects an even more blameless and integerious behaviour of a normal politician (we were accustomed to others, we thought that at least this change had taken place), must be the emblem of transparency and reliability. A President-in-Office of the Council cannot lie. President Letta, in any other democracy a Premier discovered to tell lies to his constituents would resign even before he was thrown away. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do so, Mr President, before this Parliament asks you to leave.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u85	I call on you to conclude, time is up.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u86	TAVERNA (M5S). I have finished, Mr President, thank you for the extra time. The 5 Star Movement cannot give and will not give confidence to those who deceive citizenship. The 5 Star Movement does not make alliances and is not the spare wheel of anyone, let alone who for seven years was the main ally of the condemned Berlusconi. Here either you govern or you all go home, there are no margins. Only with a five-star government can we really start the country's recovery. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There's nothing in between. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Nothing, you're nothing! [[Live applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u89	[[Applause from the PdL Group]] Mr Berlusconi (PdL). I think it is clear to everyone that, after the outcome of the past elections, we felt that the only reasonable solution possible in the interests of the country was that of a government that put together the forces of the center-left and those of the center-right. We waited patiently for the two months of reflections - let us call them in this way of the center-left and then we arrived together with the formation of this government group, of which we accepted all the wills expressed by the President-in-Office and in fact, out of 23 members of the government, despite the elections we had reached a very short distance from the votes of the Left Coalition, we agreed to have only 5 Ministers. I believe, therefore, that we have done everything in our ability to do and we have done so also because we had the hope that it could change the climate of our country. We thought that this climate, which some had even called the cold civil war, could go towards a sort of peace that I believe a civilized country really needs. This hope has not been deposed. We still keep it. We have listened carefully to the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council. We have listened to your commitments regarding the reduction of the tax burden, the reduction of taxes on labour, the adoption - at last - of the commitment that the Court of Human Rights of the European Union has made to us - it seems to me - for the third time with regard to the civil liability of judges. So, putting together all these expectations, the fact that Italy needs a Government that can produce those structural and institutional reforms that the country needs to modernise, we decided, not without internal hardship, to express a vote of confidence to this Government. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.Many Senators of the PdL Group stand up. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u92	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the Senators of the Democratic Party will vote with conviction on the confidence of President Letta. They will also do so after hearing your speech and reply, from which emerged the profile of a reliable and solid government programme, which intends to engage with a full mandate, at least until the end of our Presidency of the European Semester; of a government able to continue the work of consolidation, to strengthen the social state, to present a good law of stability and to give continuity to parliamentary work on the indispensable electoral law. On this line, on the lines of your speech, President Letta, a new political majority has been formed here today, regardless of all tactical and cunning operations. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] that contrast with the very serious words and gestures that, in these days, we have felt with great astonishment and bewilderment. This sudden vote, which is added to the majority, makes a clear sense, wants to hide a political defeat, which instead... [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Fravezzi and Di Biagio. Comments from the PdL Group]] It's clear and clear in front of the Italians. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, democratic senators will also vote for confidence in the esteem they bring to you and for the consideration of the work your Government has done so far under very difficult conditions. You have shown, that what Senator Taverna said just now, how in unhappy Italy these days you can be a political leader and work honestly and unselfishly for your country. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Di Biagio]] Five months ago no one would have imagined that a government born to face a very serious emergency would be put at risk in the middle of its mission. Instead, it happened, although none of the reasons for its birth failed. Today Parliament has a specific duty, it must prevent the events of Senator Berlusconi, totally alien to the Government, from interrupting the difficult and delicate... [[Protests of Senators Alberti Casellati and Rizzotti. Recalls of the President]] . .rehabilitating process, conducted first with Mario Monti and now with Enrico Letta, started on August 5, 2011 with the letter of the European Union and the Central Bank that imposed very harsh conditions on Italy, penalty our international exclusion and the dramatic penalty of our economy. We have seen in the last few days what may be the consequences of the interruption of government action. After the announcement of the resignation of the MPs of the PdL the spread has splashed at the maximum of the last months. Yesterday as soon as a renewed stability was seen, the bag flew. It is sad to hear that spread and stability would be abstract. This is not the view of Italian households penalized by the slips on the stock exchange, by the growth of interest on debt and by the risks in the placement of public bonds. Italy needs a government that lasts a lot, has a long view, does not practice bluffing and believes in a democratic Europe, more united and more supportive. That is why political prudence, institutional responsibility and, even, ordinary reasonableness demand to let the Led Government work. It wasn't like that. The responsibility for breaking the fragile, but necessary, political balance was denounced with significant unanimity by workers and Confindustria, Italian bishops and banks, farmers and traders, the International Monetary Fund, trade unions and the free press. In a word, from all over the country and from all the European Chancelleries. The majority who voted for confidence in April was difficult and tiring, made up of very different and very distant political forces. If the Democratic Party and the PdL, together with Civic Choice, after a different election result in the House and the Senate, after two months of stalemate they have decided to support the Letta Government, they have done so, not in order to favor a superficial pacification, but in order to try to resolve the very serious problems of Italy. And I want to acknowledge and thank all the senators of the majority and also of the opposition for the institutional collaboration demonstrated during these five months in so many parliamentary passages. Mr President, just as in the battles one must not desert, just as in the great natural disasters one cannot leave help in half, even in the middle of the longest, deepest and most devastating economic, social and institutional crisis, as long as the danger remains high, the rehabilitation cannot and must not stop, so as not to squander the first benefits and throw the sacrifices of many. And that's exactly what happened. And when different and distant political forces decide for the good of their own country, even against their own interests, to support a Government of service together, they know from the start that it is possible that they are called to pay the political prices, even very high. But the government's activity cannot be interrupted, the popular consensus, even when it is very substantial, can never authorize the violation of the supreme principles of the rule of law and the separation of powers. The drama that Italy is experiencing obliges us to tell the truth and do so without reluctance. In the last few days we have seen, touched with hands the dangers of personalism in politics... JOHNARDS (PdL). Enough with the junkyards! ZANDA (PD). ...and the risks of failure to implement the principles of internal democracy and transparency of the parties which Article 49 of the Constitution stipulates clearly. A small group of trusted advisors, considered extremists within their own party, impose the line and orders collective resignation. [[Protests from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u93	Let me talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u94	ZANDA (PD). And speaking of courtiers, I want to say to Senator Bondi... [[Protests from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u95	Quiet! FALANGA (PdL). Nobody ordered me to resign. Understand?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u96	[[Comments from the PD Group. Protests from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u97	Senator Alberti Casellati, please resume your seat.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u98	Let me talk. This is a House where democracy should be the basis. Let me talk. [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti. Protests from the PdL Group.]] Mr Rizzotti (PdL). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). President, I simply wanted to say to Senator Bondi that he cannot afford to approach the name of Enrico Berlinguer to that of his boss, as he did days ago. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, SCPI and Misto-SEL groups.]] We live times of great vulgarity [[Comments of Senators Malan and Rizzotti]] And it shouldn't be, Mr. President. In conclusion, I feel obliged to thank Enrico Letta to whom the Senators of the Democratic Party renew their trust with great consideration and affection. I thank him for his personal commitment, for the hard work of these months and for the results he has achieved that, under the conditions given, were not at all discounted. The recognitions and credit he has collected in Europe and in his international relations are honoring our country. It was not easy to save Italy from an infringement procedure, already very advanced; it was not easy to repay to the creditor companies much of the state's debt, to finance culture and school after many years of cuts, to begin to heal the plague of exodus, to intervene on the Cassa Integrazione. Charging Letta for VAT is wrong. I repeat: this is wrong. It goes hand in hand with the objections to the Severino law that less than a year ago Parliament wanted and voted unanimously without anyone finding anything to complain about. [[Comments from the PdL Group.]] GIOVANARDI (PdL). He didn't vote for her! FALANGA (PdL). He didn't vote on the decree but the law delegates! ZANDA (PD). An eminent Senator of the Democratic Party wrote with great intellectual honesty that not only is it urgent to revisit the Berlusconian twenty years but also an analysis of the facts and the political behaviors that have made it possible. [[Protests from the PdL Group]] I agree with him, even more so after the events of the last few hours. [[Protests from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u99	Quiet! Excuse me, if this is the beginning of a pacification...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u100	[[Extended applause from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD Group.]] Let me talk. Let me finish this. Everyone had the right to speak. Conclude, Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). If I may, Mr President, I would just like to say that I am not saying anything that would offend anyone's sensitivity. [[Protests from the PdL Group]] Please be patient for a few minutes and you will then have the chance to speak again. You're from the PDL Group. Time! ZANDA (PD). I think, Mr President, that the need for clarity on our recent past is not only a part of the whole country, the right, the centre and the left. The burdens and responsibilities are very different, but we all have the right to want to know why so much evil and the duty to look frankly inside ourselves. I fear that the work of reconstruction will ultimately show us with great bitterness that, starting from the 1980s and especially over the last twenty years, damage has been caused so deeply that only a very long time of good governance and reform will be able to heal. The state and the founding principles of democracy have been mortified and weakened. The rich have become richer and the poor have become poorer. Italy needs a political system that contributes openly in Parliament to its institutional, material and even moral reconstruction. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u101	Senator Chiavaroli asked to attach the text of her interevent to the documents. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I'm sensing that this is the end of the broadcast with RAI.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u103	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u104	PALMA (PdL). Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Senators, I listened very carefully to President Berlusconi's speech, and I was absolutely willing to follow the path of responsibility which, with great difficulty, had been indicated by him in his speech. I was probably not convinced to the full, but this was the Party's order and this was what I felt to be, partly because I do not hide the importance of the existence of a government at this delicate moment. In these months, Mr President, we have all struggled to be together, and we have done so in the idea of making a contribution to the country's mill. President Berlusconi's intervention today went in this direction: it was a great intervention of pacification that was anchored to a painful choice. I listened to Senator Zanda's speech: there is no peace, there is no serenity. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] I was wondering if, at such a delicate time, a solid, future majority could really be formed on such a matter. [[Comments of Senator Di Biagio]] It is clear that here in the Senate the vote of abstention is equivalent to a vote against, and I have no intention of differing from the objective, from that indicated by President Berlusconi. Although I had the heart, therefore, to vote for the government's confidence, following Senator Zanda's intervention, I will leave the Chamber. [[Applause from some of the Senators of the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u106	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u107	D'ANNA (PdL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Senators, these are moments when a man must first respond to himself and his conscience. I believe that those who had some perplexity to support President Berlusconi's last attempt to offer, in addition to himself, support for the vote of confidence have been disillusioned by the prompt reaction of Senator Zanda who claims a limited majority. Well, I'm nobody, but I'm not offering Senator Zanda my vote, because whoever doesn't want me doesn't deserve me. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] If I was allowed thirty seconds - let me also speak the peones - I wanted to remind President Letta, with whom we have common origins, at least cultural, that the application of a retro-penalty and penal law was adopted only by two great leaders in history, Hitler and Stalin... [[Applause from Senator Malan]] ..and that it should be your concern if in this nation, without if and without but, you preconceivedly refuse to listen to the opinion of the Constitutional Court, as if the presence of Senator Berlusconi for a further three months in this Chamber was in itself the main harm that can come to the nation. It is on this hypocrisy, it is on the hypocrisy of our colleagues who make the ministers that dissent is born, that it is good that it comes out. A gentleman named François-Marie Arouet, in Voltaire art, taught us...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u108	I invite you to conclude, it is a dissenting statement.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u109	D'ANNA (PdL). ...that when one man's freedom and rights are threatened, everyone's rights are in danger. I do not give my vote to this Government, I do not give my vote to the hypocrisy, the thirst for power and the confusion of intent on which it is born.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u111	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u112	Barani (GAL). Mr President, of course our Parent Company had made a declaration of distrust and I disagree, as I think other colleagues do, with the olive branch that President Berlusconi has launched to those who are increasingly communists. You see, Mr President, already the Thirty Years' War in Germany between Protestants and Christians ended with a peace because they had starved the people. I believe - and the carnation I wear is my witness - that I represent, perhaps unique or very few, the socialist culture, the one according to which we must turn to merits and needs. This is our slogan, and that is why we take the invitation that President Berlusconi made and we launch this umbilical cord to those who are increasingly communists, inviting them to go truly in the wake of socialist culture, which is only democracy, freedom and guarantee, not justiceism. The justiceists are not in socialist culture and cannot be in a socialist International. That is my invitation. The same would have been done by a great leader who was killed in exile when this war began within us, Bettino Craxi. That is why I declare my vote in favour of the Government: for peace, only for this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u115	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President, I would like to ask you to add the signature to the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Zanda, Susta and others, who, after hearing the Council's communications, approve them. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u116	We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u117	In accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a roll-call vote on motion for a resolution No 2, on which the Government has put the question of trust. I would remind you that every senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote under the Presidency. The senators in favour of the trusted motion will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will respond accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom he will begin to call her. (The name of Senator Bencini is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Bencini. PIZZETTI, secretary, make the appeal. (In the course of the vote, Senator Tremonti expressed his presence but did not vote. The President authorizes him to leave his reasons to the documents). The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Alberti Casellati, Albertini, Alicata, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Aracri, Augello, Azzollini Barani, Berger, Berlusconi, Bernini, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bilardi, Carinali, Carraro, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Cattaneo, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Gucci, Compagna, Compagnone, De Biasi, Conti, Corsini, Cuomo D'Adda, D'Alì, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Ambrosio, D'Escola, D'Escola, D'Escola, Bias, Fort, De Monte, Cucca, De Philda, D'Alì The senators: Airola, Arrigoni Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Bertorotta, Bignami, Biinella, Bitonci, Blondo, Bocchino, Bottici, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Consiglio, Cotti, Crosio D'Anna, Davico, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pietro, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Fattori, Fucksia Gaetti, Giarrusso, Girotto Lezzi, Lucidi Mangili, Martelli, Molinari, Montevecchi, Moronese, Morra, Munerato, Mussini Nugnes Paglini, Pepe, Petraglia, Petrocelli, Puglia Romani Mauri Santangelo, Scibona, Serra, Simeoni, Stefani, Stefani, Stefani, Morona, Morona, Morra, Morra, Stefano, Stefano, Stefano Tacciano. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u118	I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal on motion for resolution No 2, on which the Government has raised the question of trust: [[Senators present 307 Senators voting 305 Majority 153 Favorables 235 Contrars 70]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Naccarato, Iurlaro, Pagano and Longo Eva.]] It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11,
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u121	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, more than through political duty, I am speaking out of an institutional and personal duty of solidarity with colleagues who have been sitting next to me for days, whom I know and value personally. It also seems to me necessary, at institutional level, to keep track (we have made a small report that we have submitted to the Presidency, but with this intervention we want to strengthen it) of the incident that took place today. It is true, Mr President, that I say this with sadness, so many things happen in this House; today too it has gone in an unexpected and unpredictable way, but the sense of the institutions must be maintained by all of us. I believe that threats or readable attitudes such as these occurring outside the Chamber are a private matter (I say this to you, but it is clear that the person concerned will then eventually settle accordingly); when they happen in places like these, however, they affect us all. That is why I wanted it to be clear to the record today, because after the speech by Mr De Pin, who has made a long, passionate and painful speech which then led to his vote of confidence, together with that of my colleagues Gambaro and Anitori, many colleagues have brought here, at the top of the Chamber where we are sitting, to congratulate Mrs De Pin. So probably, in a totally justified way, neither did we surprise the arrival of colleagues from the other benches, nor did the Presidency. In reality, then, one of the people who came here did not come to congratulate my colleague Di Pin, but he had an absolutely threatening tone. I mark it because, more than the expressions, as you should be at home, you shouldn't have arrived here. (Others also reported much heavier words, than I personally didn't hear, because they were probably collected in the final part of this story), the tone was authentically threatening. I do not think it is possible for these things to happen in this House. When they happen and the Presidency sees it, it is not our job to report it. In this case we point out - personally, I also point out this on behalf of other Members - not only because of an institutional and necessary fact, for the sake of the institutions, but also because of the protection of colleagues. In fact, it is not conceivable that opinions and votes are expressed in here and then they run the risk of getting out of the Senate. Who is here must be protected, must be protected to the full. Therefore, this complaint of ours serves out of solidarity with the colleagues, and also with my colleague Mastrangeli who had reached them and who witnessed the same scene, (so he was the subject of the same threats, but they were addressed to my colleague De Pin in particular). I think it is right that this matter should be discussed and clarified, because it is not enough for an outburst of anger to have such a dignified behavior. I do not know my colleague, who was also easily identifiable (this is Gianluca Castaldi). I do not personally know my colleague, I do not fully understand the motivations of his behavior, but as a stranger to the dynamics of the 5 Star Movement, completely unrelated to these dynamics, I must say that I have witnessed a scene that is not worthy of this place. So the President and the Presidency must take note of this and be made aware of it. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u122	We take note of this and, on the basis of your speech and the reports that will be presented to the quaestors senators, you will evaluate the senator's behavior.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-115.ana.u123	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 14.55 p.m.
