ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.09 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 7 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u3	Senator Bianconi, in her capacity as pro-tempore president, announced that on 15 November 2013 the parliamentary group called "New Right Centre" was set up. The list of Senators belonging to the Group is annexed to today's Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we should move on to the agenda for today's sitting, which deals with the draft budget and stability laws. The 5th Permanent Commission did not conclude its examination of these draft laws in the context of the timetable. The Budget Commission is further convened today at 4.30 p.m. and 8.30 p.m. The next stage of the budgetary session will be defined, also in the light of the work of the 5th Commission, by the Conference of Leaders, which will be convened on a day-to-day basis. I therefore propose that the sitting be suspended and resumed at 6 p.m. when, I believe, the meeting of the Conference of Leaders will also be concluded to inform the House of the new timetable for work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u7	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I would like to inform the Presidency and the House that on 20 November it will be International Day for the Rights of the Child and Adolescence. The communications you have just made to the House show that this House will certainly still be affected by the debate on the Stability Act on that day. I would like to celebrate the anniversary of the International Day of the Rights of the Child by saying that the Democratic Party Group will ask the next Conference of the Leaders for the immediate timetable, at the end of the discussion of the law of stability, of a motion concerning children's problems. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u8	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u11	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to take advantage of this sitting to point out a dramatic issue which has arisen on Friday at Fiumicino Airport and to ask the Presidency, as I will do in the competent Commission, namely the 8th, of which I am Vice-President, to tackle the problem effectively and quickly. On Friday, several dozen workers and workers from a company hit by the crisis across this airport were chained at the airport of Fiumicino. We are fighting, both as a Commission and as a Senate, for other important issues, for example, to tackle the dramatic problem of the Alitalia crisis. But in the context of this general problem it happens that for many workers and for many workers (one part of whom has responded and another substantial part has not) there is a dramatic situation of absence of income, without any prospect. I am shocked by the intransigent behavior of the company Airports of Rome towards the workers of the former World Duty Free, who on Friday have chained themselves at the entrance of the airport Leonardo da Vinci and that they are found without income, while, as we have verified, the company, through its own digital channels, has launched a competition to hold the new shopping gallery. It is therefore an expansion, a situation quite different from those we unfortunately often see in Italy, i.e. the precipitation of economic activities and initiatives. This is truly incredible, as was the case during the day of Friday also the attitude of the company, which did not give an answer to the representatives of the Municipality of Fiumicino (the deputy mayor and several councillors and advisors) present on the spot. To all this the company has responded after many hours only with a hypothetical willingness to put in place a negotiation. I think it is desirable that the presidency of the Senate, in harmony with the Lazio Region, which has made itself available, the City of Fiumicino and the competent Commission, stimulates and separates the company, which remains deaf to every problem of this nature.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u12	I would like to greet the students and teachers of the classical high school "Mario Pagano" in Campobasso, who are today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u15	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, you will certainly not welcome my speech, partly because I have just been invited not to speak about the President of the House of Members. However, I personally believe that every elected person must always respond to the citizens when he takes up important positions, so take the floor if he or she thinks he or she is doing so, but I will not stop saying what I am about to say. I received a letter from an Italian citizen who, having respect for the institutions, addressed the President of the House bringing his own personal problem (a serious problem of family, separation and children), asking to be heard. I am sure that President Boldrini will not have been brought to the attention of this letter, but his secretariat has responded to a person who has taken a hunger strike and postponed until spring. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The President of the House can be called into question within the Chamber, because she has no tools to reply to a senator. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am telling you that I certainly think this is important and I therefore ask the President of the Senate to take charge of it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When this letter arrives... CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I'm taking it to him. He is a person who has gone on hunger strike because he cannot see his child; I believe that at institutional level we cannot answer "we hear in six months, in spring, maybe when the same will be more slim. Do we want to take people who have difficulties seriously? I believe it is our duty as elected citizens to represent the institutions. If this is not done by the President of the House, please do so by the President of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u16	I suspend the session until 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.23 a.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u17	Colleagues, let's resume our work. The Conference of Group Leaders meeting this afternoon took note of the state of play on the draft budget and stability laws in the 5th standing Commission in the light of the speeches by the President of the Commission and the representatives of the Government. Therefore, in the context of the timetable already defined by the Conference of Leaders at meetings of 29 October and 5 November, the discussion of financial documents in the Assembly will begin on Friday 22 November, at 9.30 a.m., after convening the Conference of Leaders, at 9 a.m. The Conference of Leaders also took note of the Protocol for the implementation of Chapter VII of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012 on the establishment of the Parliamentary Budget Office, jointly approved by the Bureaus of the Senate and Chamber of Deputies' Budget Committees on 7 November 2013.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u20	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, the Conference of Group Presidents which you convened today has, in fact, changed the timetable for the work in force, explicitly derogating from the current Senate Rules. The article 126, paragraph 9, in fact requires the conclusion of the examination of the law of stability in the referent within 25 days of its referral. Having been assigned to the Budget Committee on 23 October last, the examination of the draft Stability Act, in accordance with the current Regulation, should have been concluded by Saturday (16 November). Therefore, this significant procedural violation, in addition to being strongly stigmatized, must at least be certified by the Conference of Group Presidents, as well as by the Assembly. The combination of the factual change in the schedule of proceedings, aggravated by the violation of Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure, necessarily requires at least one vote by the Senate Assembly, in order to finalize the schedule of proceedings. Having said that, the 5 Star Movement Group requires a change to the calendar as redefined by today's Conference of Group Presidents, integrating it with two issues of primary importance. At 109 days after the final sentence for serious crimes and 45 days after the statement by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, the Senate was unable to reach a due act: Mr Berlusconi's sentence of revocation. It is therefore necessary to provide urgently for this fulfillment which, it is worth remembering, is prescribed by the law in force, and the Senate cannot, in any way, escape the principle of legality. That is why, Mr President, we call for the vote on Mr Berlusconi's forfeiture to be scheduled for today, Monday 18 November 2013. Further question that the Senate Assembly must resolve, immediately after the Chamber of Deputies, is the motion of individual distrust against the Minister Chancellors, presented by the 5 Star Movement Group on 5 November last. Decadence and mistrust are, of course, issues which are radically unrelated to the law of stability, which is still being examined by the Budget Committee, and which are therefore easily examined by this House. Our request is therefore this: today, Monday, 18 November, the vote on Mr Berlusconi's forfeiture; Thursday, 21 November, 9.30 a.m., debate and vote on the motion of individual distrust against Mr Cancellieri. As I wrote to you last Thursday, Mr President, these requests respond exclusively to the need for the legality and correctness of our legal and constitutional system, by virtue of persistent and persistent violations of the law, given the permanence in parliamentary office of a person definitively condemned for serious crimes and given the permanence to the Government of Ministers who make wrong calls to wrong people, with the wrong content. Any further delay and delay is not only to be considered inappropriate and illegitimate, but risks compromising, irreparably, the institutional and functional dignity of the Senate of the Republic. Finally, Mr President, I would like to make a recommendation to you and to this House as a whole. If Senator Berlusconi is declared to be dead, he will receive an end-of-term allowance of approximately €180,000. In other words, the Senate, following a final judgment on tax fraud, will have to compensate Senator Berlusconi for 180,000 euros, because he has been in parliamentary office since 1994. It would be an unacceptable scandal and mockery that they cannot and must not, in any way, happen, and we will do everything to ensure that this does not happen. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u23	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I take the floor on behalf of the Group of the North Legacy to stress our disappointment at this situation. We ask for time when there is no more time: we ask the Italians for time but the country no longer has time. We're really baffled. Among other things, let me stress that, in such a situation (we should have started the process of dealing with financial documents today), it would have been nice and kind if a representative of the Government had been present in the Chamber: that is not the case. But the thing that worries us most, Mr President, which I want to stress and which I ask you to be an interpreter of with the Government, is to understand, following the letter from the European Union that in fact rejects our manoeuvre, what is the path that the Government wants to take with regard to the law of stability in the Commission. It is essential to understand when the Government will come to the Commission to clarify this point that we consider essential (from this point of view perhaps there are already assurances, but we want certainty about the timing). The letter from the European Union leaves few doubts and interpretations, which is why we will wait for the government to report to the Commission on this point. We'll see what happens on Friday. We don't have the crystal ball, but I'm ready to bet it'll be postponed until next week, but we'll see about Friday. Italy and Italians need answers; we ask for time. This is not good at all. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u26	BONFRISCO (PdL). Mr President, I would just like to point out that the work of the Budget Committee is continuing. In this connection too, I would ask you, like what happened in the Commission a few minutes ago, to take action to ensure that the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Saccomanni, is present to respond to the rejection by the European Union of our law of stability. We have read the Minister's answers (some of them convince us not), but before we go into the matter we would like the Minister to have the good taste to respond to Parliament before the newspapers. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u27	Already at the Conference of the Leaders, I gave assurances that Mr Saccomanni would be available if a date were agreed for his hearing by the Budget Commission: it will only be a matter of setting a date, but there is availability. Ladies and gentlemen, on the request made by Senator Taverna, the Presidency has already responded to the afternoon sitting on 6 November, which was also confirmed during subsequent sittings. With respect to the further remarks made by Senator Taverna, I would like to remind you that during the afternoon session on Tuesday 5 November, proposals for amendments to the timetable already approved by the Conference of Leaders were voted on and rejected, with a view to anticipating the vote on the report of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the contested election in the Molise Region and to include the motion of individual distrust against the Minister of Justice. The rejection of these requests led to the foreclosure of the proposal, made pursuant to Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, to discuss and vote on the same subject. Senator Taverna's request is a direct change to the calendar, approved and confirmed by the Assembly by separate votes and not amended to date. In fact, as already stated, at this meeting, the Conference of Leaders merely took note of the state of play on financial documents, without considering any other proposal to amend or supplement the timetable, already defined at meetings on 29 October and 5 November. The question may be raised again in the seat of a subsequent Conference of the Leaders (one has already been convened for next Friday) called upon to decide on a different timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u30	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I read a note of mine published on 10 November last and addressed to the President-in-Office of the Council concerning the dramatic case of one of our fellow citizens, in serious health conditions, who, due to a bureaucratic disorder, remained in prison for days despite the presence of an order contrary to the judicial authority. "Dear President of the Council, Dr. Enrico Letta, as you may have read about yesterday's "Day Done," a fellow citizen of ours, Dr. Fabrizio Cinquini, surgeon of Pietrasanta (Lucca), is living a real prison odyssey. He is currently closed in Massa Prison, where he has just celebrated his first 50 years, although he could have enjoyed the house arrests for a long time and thus received assistance from his wife and children. Dr. Cinquini, in fact, is suffering from hepatitis C, a disease contracted back in 1998 while doing his work on board an ambulance. The doctor, in these years, has tried to treat himself with a treatment based on cannabis, aloe and papaya, thus breaking the law with a sort of civil disobedience, evidently aimed at obtaining not already advantages of a patrimonial type, but simple therapeutic remedies, prohibited in Italy but applied freely in other countries, even European. What is striking, however, is the inability of the judicial and prison system to guarantee the minimum rights of freedom and legal civilization to citizens who, although they do not have important surnames like the Ligresti, certainly deserve equal attention from the institutions. Dr. Cinquini, although authorized for house arrest, is in prison for bureaucratic delays of the judicial administration. That's why I thought I'd turn directly to you who, with so much commitment, defended Minister Chancellors in Parliament in the recent case that involved the "poor" Giulia Ligresti. The relatives of Dr. Cinquini, unfortunately, have not managed to have the telephone number of the Minister Chancellors and cannot thus be recognized what in a democratic and modern country should be a right of every citizen, regardless of his personal and patrimonial condition. Trusting in your sensitivity, I ask you, with every kind urgency, to communicate to me the mobile users of Minister Chancellors or, at least, to care so that Dr. Cinquini can soon embrace his loved ones and receive the right medical care that he needs. Thank you, I greet you cordially.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u33	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, distinguished colleagues, already months ago I denounced the misunderstanding between gambling lobbying and politics. In particular, I focused on the relations between the President of the Council Letta and some companies that, according to press sources, had financed with 15,000 euros directly the president (I remember the company HBG Antonio Porsia) and with 30,000 euros his Foundation will see through Lottomatica and Sisal. Well, following those complaints, the President hastened to deny that he does not receive direct funding. It is clear to us that this has happened and we will therefore ask the President to clarify, or to recognize, once and for all his links, because this Government is called to govern, to settle a number of issues, to intervene on important legislative acts that cannot see it delegitimized in terms of transparency. I would therefore like to say that I will put a question and finally have a clear point on this matter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u34	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-138.ana.u35	The Senate will meet again in public session on Friday 22 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.17.
