ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:38 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pizzetti, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 10 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u4	The next item is the vote on the resignation of Senator Giovanna Mangili. I read the letter sent by Senator Giovanna Mangili to the Presidency on 16 April 2013: To the President of the Senate of the Republic Subject: He renounces his position as Senator of the Republic. The undersigned Giovanna Mangili, born in Monza on 01/08/1967, proclaimed elected Senator of the Republic by the Regional Central Office constituted at the Court of Appeal of Milan, for the Lombardy district, following a previous request for resignation dated 5 March 2013 and the subsequent vote of the Assembly of 3 April 2013 that did not approve DECLARA of wanting to renounce the position of Senator of the Republic for personal reasons. He declared his willingness to report in the assembly on the reasons on the 17th of April 2013 on the occasion of the vote In faith Cesano Maderno, 12.04.2013 F.to Giovanna MANGILI. I call Senator Engili.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is with deep emotion that I am here, in this House, in which one of the highest representative institutions of our country is gathered. As everyone knows, I have stated since the beginning of this House that I want to give up my position as a senator for personal reasons. I understand the reasons behind this House's decision to vote against my resignation at the first vote, in order to protect the role of the institution I represent, and I thank you for that. Although I do not appreciate the political exploitations of my decision, I have not welcomed the free attacks on the 5 Star Movement, of which I am honored to be part and to which I have dedicated, dedicated and dedicated my civil commitment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] For this reason I decided today, accepting your request, to be here. I strongly repeat that this decision has been made in the greatest possible freedom and autonomy, and that the fantastic people around me in this House have tried in every way to make me desist from my decision. They surrounded me with affection and protection, trying to protect my privacy and my personal sphere. For the respect that I also have for them today, I am here to confirm my request for resignation from the office of Senator of the Republic, and I ask all my colleagues present to vote in favour of the acceptance of my request, putting an end to this winding road to obstacles that has seen me as the protagonist and that takes time from the actual parliamentary activity. Thank you and wish you good work. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u7	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u9	DELLA VEDOVA (SPI). Mr President, I have listened carefully to the words of my colleague and I have not convinced myself that we must accept his resignation, because I think that we are discussing a subject which is far from marginal, or rather a subject which is the foundation of Italian parliamentary democracy. Today, in the "Corriere della Sera," there is an article by the dean of Italian political scientists, Professor Sartori, to whom I believe we must refer. You see, the inescapable constitutional question of "without a mandate" cannot be addressed or surpassed with superficiality and, since I believe in the seriousness of the positions and the authenticity of the words that are spoken by those who make politics in any way, I believe, for example, that we must pay attention to the words that I found on the blog of Claudio Messora that, if I don't understand correctly, is the responsible communication of the 5 Star Movement Group to the Senate, which in a recent post recalls those that in his opinion are the characteristics and connotations of the elected of the 5 Star Movement. I read: "An elected 5 Star Movement sits on an armchair but it doesn't matter and doesn't decide anything: it just asks the Movement what its position is and waits. The Movement uses the network, consults intelligence within it and formulates its proposal. The chosen one executes the deed. It is a position; it is probably also a position not only respectable, but that corresponds to a thought, to a vision of the state, of the relations between citizens and institutions and of the role of Parliament and parliamentarians: an elected 5 Star Movement sits on an armchair, but it doesn't matter, it doesn't decide anything. What we must choose even today, deciding on resignation, is whether the vision of the Italian Parliamentary Republic is that of the Constitution, of Article 67 of our Constitution, or this; whether the role entrusted to parliamentarians and Parliament is to count nothing and collect (repeat, is a vision) or whether it is that of the Constitution. I conclude by referring to today's editorial by Giovanni Sartori: But let's get to the point that really matters. This: that the prohibition of the imperative mandate has been formulated by the constituents of the French Revolution and that since then is found in all the nineteenth-century Constitutions and to a large extent also in those of the twentieth century. Why? Simply because it establishes the political representation (of public law) of modern people. Without this prohibition it would fall back to the medieval representation, in which, precisely, the so-called representatives were ambassadors, emissaries, spokesperson who "brought the word" of their masters and lords. Their mandate was imperative because they only had to report without the power to deal with it. By putting together what we know about the Constitution, the words we have heard today and the considerations that have been made elsewhere by the representatives of the 5 Star Movement, I believe that at the very least we must all reserve an additional deepening on the role of the parliamentarians and, consequently, also on the way in which the resignation is presented. We were the first to ask the senator to speak directly in this Chamber and thank her, frankly we expected, given the importance in general and especially in this context of the resignation, a more convincing and perhaps with a few more arguments. Therefore the Civic Choice Group for Italy will vote against the resignation. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u12	Gasparri (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we too of the People of Liberty asked that Senator Mangili explain the reasons for her sudden, inexplicable and still unexplained resignation. We have heard that perhaps she would come to the Conference of Leaders or I do not know where else, demonstrating once again the ignorance of procedures and rules. Moreover, if we do not even know the age that the Constitution provides for the President of the Republic, let us imagine what we can know about Parliament's procedures. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] We have asked for the reasons for an act of transparency. We can resign from the mandate: for the first time, after a long time, I agree with the words of Senator Della Vedova, who mentioned references to reaffirm the freedom of mandate. Among other things, those who say that "one is worth one" should interpret even more strictly than others the freedom of mandate of the individual person. Frankly, Mr President, I have seen a singular and also disturbing scene: Senator Mangili has accepted the senate's call to come to the Chamber - and we are grateful for this - to explain the reasons. After that we saw the reading of a text that nothing said. I'd like to know, Senator Mangili, who wrote that text: I didn't understand if you wrote it or if someone handed it to you. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] And the presence of some colleagues, as if they had to control the material respect of the reading of the text, is also a disturbing and self-critical scene of other times, which frankly the Senate did not deserve to record! [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] Thank you for the applause, do well! Mr President, I also want to say that when we make transparency a myth must be consistent: there can be no direct streaming with Bersani and the secret meeting when we talk about the compensation of Members, as you did days ago, with buses and secret locations. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] Our group, for the freedom of Senator Mangili, will vote against his resignation. Tell us the truth! [[Applause from the PdL Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] We've read all about manipulations on the net. We've read a lot of things. This is the Senate and it is the kingdom of freedom and truth. We've seen a really creepy scene. For Parliament's freedom, we shall vote against the resignation, which has not been justified. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u15	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I sincerely do not understand what is on the agenda today, whether the request for the resignation of my friend, Joan, or whether a political debate is taking place on the mandate, transparency or anything else. I don't know what we're talking about. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Honestly, I am truly sorry for the cruelty - because this is the case - towards a person who has declared from the beginning (so, without any political exploitation of this choice) that he wants to renounce his mandate. As Parliament's officials know, we called even before Parliament was set up. The person had asked to be able to exercise the right not to be proclaimed, even before Parliament was established. Today it really seems to us to be an outrage towards someone who has come here, in this House, with emotion. I think we also felt the difficulty in saying the words, for the emotion. It really seems to me to be bitterness and cruelty. Anyway, I respect your decision, no problem. Let's continue: we keep the double, triple, quadruple armchairs, as we are currently used to. [[Live applause from the M5S Group]] If there is anyone who has not respected this Parliament, this Senate and continues not to respect it are these people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You're not used to someone who has the courage to say, "I leave my job to someone else who can do it, perhaps with more dedication and commitment, because I don't feel like doing it." You are not used to this, unfortunately, because the attachment to armchairs is excessive. Honestly, I think we should put an end to this obstacle course. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr Rizzotti (PdL). Let's learn from you!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u18	CASSON (PD). Mr President, during the afternoon sitting on 3 April this House invited Senator Engili to come forward to try to motivate, explain to the senators and the Senate his decisions. Senator Mangili has accepted this invitation, which was not at all obvious was accepted, so I believe that first of all this sign of good will must be given, in a very delicate situation from an institutional and personal point of view. [[Applause from Senator Cirinna.]] Because if the Senate rejected Senator Engili's request to resign at first instance, it did so out of respect for the institution and role of Parliament, but also out of respect for the individual person of the MP. So this delicate situation has been created, institutionally and personally, and it has also created some embarrassment in a decision. Again last time we had pointed out the opportunity, precisely to protect people and institutions, to understand as senators the reasons to the end. I therefore believe that, at this time and here, we must first of all reiterate the fundamental aspects, that is, the respect that is due to the Senate as an institution, that respect which is due to individual Members and also to the parliamentary group to which the senator belongs, which cannot be accused in such a harsh and rough manner as has just been done. Having said that, it must also be remembered what our former president, Senator Finocchiaro, had said last time, namely the reference to the need to understand the reasons that led Senator Engili to these resignations, but the search for these reasons remained so, in the sense that an answer did not get it, we tried to understand something, but an answer was not given. We, of course, acknowledge this affirmation of personal reasons, and acknowledge the maximum freedom and autonomy of the individual Member in deciding what to do, we find ourselves in a path that has already been defined as crooked and which, in our opinion, is not at all clear. Therefore, in this sense, the indication of the Group of the Democratic Party, waiting to understand the reasons, will be to vote, again for the moment, against the resignation of Senator Mangili. [[Applause from the PD and PdL Groups Vote by secret ballot]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u19	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a secret ballot, by electronic procedure, on the resignation of Senator Giovanna Mangili. Senators for resignation will press the green button at the center of the voting position; opposing senators will press the red button on the right; senators who intend to abstain will press the white button on the left. As this is a secret ballot vote, whatever the choice of vote is made, the light that will turn on will be neutral in colour. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the secret ballot vote, by electronic procedure, on the resignation submitted by Senator Giovanna Mangili: [[Senators present 252 Senators voting 251 Majority 126 Favorables 57 Contrari 186 Absent 8]] The Senate doesn't approve. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u22	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would ask the Offices to check whether my voting system has worked. In fact, they tell me that maybe the light didn't turn on.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u25	BRUNO (PdL). I too, Mr President, took part in the vote but the electronic device did not work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u26	We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u29	PADUA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, I would like to draw your attention to one of those typically Italian cases where, in the name of savings and cost rationalization, we sacrifice realities in which situations of discomfort have actually combined respect for the person with respect for the law. I refer to the decree of the Minister of Justice of 11 February which, when defining the criteria for the reorganization of prisons, provides for the closure of the surrounding houses of Modica, Mistretta and Nicosia. There is no doubt that there are objective reasons that have led the Ministry to such a determination, but taking as the primary norm the linear and indiscriminate cut also of realities that should instead constitute examples of excellence. Only yesterday in this House we unanimously voted on a motion which provides for the establishment of the Extraordinary Commission on Human Rights and discussed the situation of our prisons and overcrowding. Well, despite what we said yesterday and what we hope... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, but there's a senator talking. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Please continue your speech, Senator Padua. PADUA (PD). Mr President, just to be consistent and follow-up to what we said yesterday, I would like to represent this situation, where the attention to the person is truly extraordinary, where the constitutional mandate is truly respected, that is, the one that these prisoners live, who have denounced their displeasure in coming once again treated as numbers and not as people. In fact, these prisons, in particular I am referring to Modica, are inserted in a monumental context, that is an ancient convent (it is an extraordinary structure), and therefore with all the inconveniences that might be there. The prisoners, however, with their work, as workers, plumbers and electricians, have arranged and made dignified the prisons, the cells that host them; they have the possibility of having showers with hot and cold water, which perhaps should be - as it were - included in the price and instead it was not. Thanks to their work and their commitment, this has been done: this is also a moment of fundamental re-education. They are people who have cleaned the arenili, they are people who, with a project of the superintendence, are about to begin an opening of this monumental structure, which could not be enjoyed by citizens and citizens, in an important context, recognized as a heritage of humanity, heritage of all of us. Well, then this is my appeal. In Modica, in particular, prisoners are treated as if they were in a family home. Where excellence is achieved, for unbearable and unsustainable linear cuts, we take away the hope of recovery from these men and their families who can visit them. In fact, if these people were transferred, it is clear that any relationship with their families would be cut. So, the respect for human rights so much said, even in this prestigious Chamber until yesterday, how can we represent it outside, after what we have said? I would like to conclude by stressing that what happened and what happened from a structural point of view... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Padua, I invite you to conclude your speech. PADUA (PD). Mr President, I would like to pay your attention to this story. It is an exemplary model that, instead of being brought to the knowledge of our country, is erased with a stroke of pen, with a linear cut once again. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u30	Colleagues, I address a greeting to the students of the Hotel Institute Caterina de' Medici in Desenzano del Garda, in the province of Brescia, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u33	MALAN (PdL). Mr President, I rise to urge the Government to fulfil a commitment made with the adoption of an agenda. On 4 July last year, in fact, the Government accepted an agenda signed by me and Senator Thaler Ausserhofer, who committed him, among other things, to make known, by 31 July, to the Senate the reward mechanisms provided for the staff of the Agency of revenue that I thought on that agenda (and I still believe) were the basis of many oppressive and vexing behaviour of the Agency itself towards taxpayers. If such mechanisms provide that a first hypothesis of tax evasion or irregularity is sufficient to access the compensation, it is clear that they represent a strong incentive for this staff to be as aggressive as possible in the first instance. In this case, the rent for the State is not there, because it is hoped that if the injunction was unfounded the citizen will not have to pay, but in the meantime the citizen is subject to a trial, an aggressive act by the State when he has perhaps fulfilled all his duties. The government has made a commitment to communicate these data to the Senate by 31 July last year. A long time has passed, the Government is still in office and this act is not only of ordinary administration, but is a necessary act to which it should have already carried out. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to urge the Government to comply with what it undertook to do on 4 July. The agenda was not accepted as a recommendation, but in full by the Government. Therefore, since it has been accepted into the Chamber, the Government must comply with what it has undertaken to do. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u34	I will urge the Government to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u37	FAVERO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about a drama in the drama: the drama of non-work involving thousands and thousands of workers. I come from Biella, a territory in which manufacturing companies abounded and where there was a lot of work. Now, within this drama that sees 6,000 workers enjoying social shock absorbers, to whom answers must be given, a higher rate of unemployment for women and young people than the national one and equal to as many as 37 percent - 76 percent of these young people are unemployed - there is another one, a drama that sees us in serious difficulty: that of the disabled who are recognized, by a special medical committee, a disability of more than 46 percent. These persons have the right to register for mandatory or targeted placement lists. Well, with an invalidity of more than 74 per cent you have the possibility to retire with a discount of two months for each year worked and this benefit is valid only from the moment of ascertaining the degree of disability. Paradoxically, the Fornero law treats disabled people as people considered normal, except for the small benefit I mentioned. Then there is a limbo, a shadow cone that affects most people suffering from illness, physical or sensory impairments, intellectuals, those that every day have to go to the care centers in order to overcome their handicap to go to work. For people whose disability is between 46 and 74 percent, there is no pension benefit and therefore they are obliged to work until the age of 68, i.e. almost 70 years of age. Well, the medical committees, rightly, are becoming more and more severe. It is also asked that the old pension system be applied at least to persons who are invalid - and recognised by the appropriate commissions - who are entitled to compulsory employment. It is impossible to imagine that in the face of a continuous loss of jobs as it is, Mr President, really happening in the world of work... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u38	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u39	FAVERO (PD). Well, I was saying that no one talks about the drama of these workers who will be able to retire only with a prohibitive number of occupational contributions and with an unimaginable age. I am therefore now announcing the submission of a question asking the Government for reasons of divergence. We also announce the presentation of a draft law on this matter. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to give you an example in order to make it clear to your colleagues, even if they may know you a lot better than I do: a 54-year-old invalid who is recognised as an invalidity rate of 62%, who has completed 35 years of work contributions, before the Fornero law came into force, could have retired honorably with about forty years of contributions. Now it takes 44 uninterruptedly, or 68 years of age. And these are disadvantaged people. I think this is a big problem. It is for everyone, but undoubtedly for them it is to an even greater extent. It is unbelievable to us that a person suffering from today to tomorrow will see his retirement for almost a decade. Therefore, to us the task, the moral duty, of a reflection on the pain, the poverty that these choices entail and will lead to for this category. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senators Bonfrisco and Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u42	SCILIPOTI (PdL). Mr President, I would like to refer to the reflection made by my colleague from the PD who, addressing the issue of civil rights, in particular the issue of prisoners, analysed the situation in Sicily, specifically in Modica. However, it should be remembered, as previous Members have done several times, that the issue of civil rights, particularly prisoners, is a dramatic one. There is more than just the reflection of my colleague on Modica. There is a disastrous situation in all Italian prisons. I recently went to Regina Coeli; I had previously been to Paola (Cosenza), Messina, Mistretta. I've seen things that are hard to believe. I am referring to the problems faced by prisoners, but also those entrusted with protection and control. In this regard, a reflection is unleashed within our minds, but also within what should be the cultural class of this country, to intervene seriously and concretely on a dramatic situation. Returning to the prison of Regina Coeli, there are dramatic situations of 42 prisoners with 6 showers, and overcrowded rooms that house these prisoners; in fact a cluster of human flesh is realized since in 4 square meters they live together 6-8 people. But that's not all we're worried about. It is rather what happens before, after and during, because this reflection could be accepted, shared and discussed, but one cannot accept what happened at the prison in Rebibbia, where a prisoner sentenced to preventive imprisonment for stealing 20 euros took his life. Therefore, the problem of civil rights and the problem of prisons are not just a question of overcrowding. It is rather a matter to be examined at 360 degrees in order to intervene immediately, as in the specific case of the Municipality of Modica, highlighted a moment ago by the colleague; situations of pride which could be taken for example, while on the other hand there are disastrous situations. So what's the scale? One versus 99. We therefore need to intervene immediately to solve the problem of overcrowding, perhaps through an amnesty that is based on the condition of a responsible and shared forgiveness, and shared at 360 degrees, as the former prosecutor Gherardo Colombo argues. We therefore need to intervene and ensure that prisons can be emptied by 60%. But there is also another reflection. How many non-Italian, non-EU prisoners do we hold in our prisons? Also on this we should make a strong and important reflection in order to try to get out of this stalemate that is really difficult, in front of which the eyes of the human being and of the living being who has respect for rights and for life remain almost unbelieving. I thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. I believe that we must intervene immediately on this issue in order to get out of this situation, paying great attention to the overcrowding of prisons, the preventive imprisonment and also a delicate and discussed solution such as that of amnesty. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u43	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the pupils of the Institute including Elsa Morante of Rome who are following the session. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u46	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, my speech will be brief, concise and direct. I would like to draw your attention to the question on the agenda of this sitting, not only to convey my thoughts but also to make proposals for work. I intend to respond to the statements made by those who, on simple personal assumptions, suggest that the reasons for Mr Mangili's request for his resignation are to be attributed not to personal reasons, as communicated to us by Mangili herself, but to impositions deriving from above. I would like to remind all of you of Senator Zanda's words at sitting No 12 of 10 April and I quote:'(...) why the so-called LAG Group was born: this is what a Senator from that Group says. He said it in his interview (...) which brings the date of 27 March (...). Well, a Senator of the LAG says to the questioner: "I will explain it to him right away, our split: (...) the Mixed One was full of communists, then Schifani commanded us to infiltrate in order to rebalance its fate (...). We had come out of the PdL for a technical fact, we left the Mixed for a political fact" (Translated with Google Translate) These claims have never been denied by anyone; it is therefore assumed that they correspond to the truth. I therefore wonder why you are concerned about finding reasons for political imposition where there is absolutely no trace of it and instead leave out what has happened within your groups. I also find it unproductive that, at such a difficult time for our country from an economic, social and political point of view, we are engaged in such discussions. We believe that it would be more productive to use time to communicate to the Presidency, for example, the members of the Permanent Commissions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , to provide the names of its senators who have not yet made the choice on the task to be maintained, as requested by the Assembly of the elections dealing with incompatibility [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , or perhaps to take action to reduce the costs of the policy, given the particular attention that is also paid to the consumption of electricity in this same House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I close my speech by hoping that we can now move forward with the work of Members we have been called upon to do. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u47	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-04-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-14.ana.u48	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Wednesday 24 April, the first at 10 a.m. and the second at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 10.20 a.m.
