ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.07 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u3	The next item is the vote on the election of three Secretary Senators. I recall that the Mixed Group, the Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and the Group for the Autonomous and Freedoms, without its own representative in the Presidency Council, have made requests to proceed with the election of three further Secretary Senators. The Presidency itself expressed its support for these requests. Pursuant to Article 1 (4) of the Transitional provision of the Senate Rules for the integration of the Presidency Council into the 17th legislature, each Senator will write on his card a single name. Those who are members of the requesting groups will be elected to obtain the highest number of votes, only one for each of these groups and the maximum number of three. With equal votes, the oldest will be elected. The senators, called in alphabetical order, once received the card, will enter the special cabin specially installed for the vote, and then put the card in the prepared urn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u6	Rossi Maurizio (SCPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am from Genoa and unfortunately I have to ask for a moment of attention to talk about a very serious situation that has affected my city and that I have followed all night. As you know, at 23 o'clock yesterday a ship destroyed the control tower of the port of Genoa. Our second lantern was realized ten years ago and, I tell the truth, knowing very well the port of Genoa, is something incredible what happened. It was really impossible for a ship to end up in the control tower. In these hours the body of a dead fourth person has been found; six others are under the rubble. In addition to declaring myself, of course, close to the families, I must say that unfortunately all this affects the first company of the city, the only still of salvation - up to now - of a city in serious crisis. The city's mourning has been declared. I ask you for a moment of recollection and closeness to the city of Genoa and to all the victims. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u7	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] I would ask Members to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. (Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u8	I inform you that Minister Lupi will report on this tragedy in the Chamber of Deputies at 4 p.m. and that he is willing to report to the Senate after the commemoration of Senator Maccanico this afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u9	Colleagues, we greet the students of the Istituto Superiore (Higher Institute) Cesare Arzelà di Sarzana, in the province of La Spezia, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u10	I declare the vote open. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the call. The Senator Secretary GENTILE and, subsequently, the Senator Secretary SAGGESE make the appeal. Senators take part in the vote: Aiello, Airola, Albano, Alberti Casellati, Albertini, Alicata, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Aracri, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bernini, Bertorotti, Bruno, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caleo, Caliendo, Campanella, Candianio, Cantini, Capacchione, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Chiampolino, Cifiolino, Ciraro, Casaletto, Casini, Cassaldi, Catalfo, Centinio, Ceroni, Cervellini, Chivaroli, Chiti, Ciampolillo, Ciffiali, Ciffiali, Coffinalì, Coffinolini, Casalciano, Casini, Casano, Casaldi, Casalfo, Cenio PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed to the ballot box and the calculation of the votes, which will take place in the adjacent Pannini Room. Pending the results of the vote, I shall suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.50 a.m. and resumed at 10.03 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u11	I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of three Secretary Senators: [[Senators present 293 Senators voting 292]] Senators got votes: [[Berger 127 Barani 85 Petraglia 54 Comrade 1 White cards 17 No cards 8]] Proclamation elected Secretaries Senators Hans Berger, belonging to the Group For the Autonomouss (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI, Lucio Barani, belonging to the Group Great Autonomouss and Freedoms, and Alessia Petraglia, belonging to the Group Mixed-Left Ecology and Freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u12	The Conference of Leaders, which met this morning, approved additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 16 May. Today afternoon, to hours 17,30, after the commemoration of the figure of Antonio Maccanico, that it will happen to hours 16 to the presence of the family, the Minister of infrastructures and the transports will render an informative information on the incident happened in the port of Genoa. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes each. Next week's schedule includes Tuesday mornings, Wednesday afternoons and Thursday mornings. In the afternoon session on Tuesday, the Micheloni motion on the establishment of the Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad will be discussed, while in the afternoon of Wednesday 15 the De Petris motion on genetically modified crops will be discussed. On Thursday 16 May, at 10 a.m., the Minister for Labour and Social Policy will reply, by direct television transmission, to questions in immediate response under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure. The agenda also includes questions and questions. The afternoon of Tuesday 14, the morning of Wednesday 15 and the afternoon of Thursday 16 May will be dedicated to the work of the Commissions. It was also established that the designations for the composition of the 14th Standing Commission shall reach the Presidency by 7 p.m. on Monday 13 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u13	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting this morning, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes and additions to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly's proceedings until May 16, 2013. [[Wednesday 8 May h. 17,30 - Informative of the Minister of the infrastructures and the transports on the incident happened in the port of Genoa Wednesday 8 May, at 16, the figure of Antonio Maccanico will be remembered.]] [[Tuesday 14 May ant. h. 10-13 - Motion n. 20, Micheloni, on the establishment of the Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad Wednesday 15 May pom. h. 16.30 - Motion No 19, De Petris, on genetically modified crops Thursday 16 May ant. h. 10 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy - Questions and questions]] The afternoon of Tuesday 14, the morning of Wednesday 15 and the afternoon of Thursday 16 May will be dedicated to the work of the Commissions. I therefore suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.06 p.m. and resumed at 16.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u14	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] The Senate of the Republic today commemorates the extraordinary figure of Antonio Maccanico, an authentic servant of the institutions, who died in Rome on April 23 at the age of 88. He was born in Avellino on 4 August 1924, in a family environment very rich in cultural stimuli and evoked civil commitment, political reflection of liberal, anti-fascist, southernist matrix, animated by prominent figures such as Adolfo Tino and Guido Dorso. After his high school studies in his hometown, Antonio Maccanico successfully supported his examination of admission to the Scuola Normale Superiore in Pisa and during the difficult years of the Second World War completed his training in that prestigious cultural institution, until his degree in law in 1946. The following year he came to Rome to participate in the first competition banned by the Italian Parliament after the liberation and, at only twenty-three years, entered the roles of the Chamber of Deputies. He then made his technical and legal contribution to the work of the constituent assembly and in the next six republican legislatures he travelled all the stages of a brilliant and prestigious career in the Administration of the Chamber of Deputies, until he appointed, in 1976, as Secretary General of that branch of Parliament. Two years later, with the election of Sandro Pertini as Head of State, Antonio Maccanico was called to the very high and delicate position of Secretary General of the President of the Republic. In 1987 he assumed the presidency of Mediobanca, as part of a difficult work of mediation between public and private members of the institution's ownership. After this difficult task, already in the following year he was called by Ciriaco De Mita to take up his first post as Minister for Regional Affairs and Institutional Affairs. The abandonment of positions of an institutional nature allowed Antonio Maccanico to engage more directly in that cultural and political area of secular and reformist origin to which he had approached with the youthful adhesion to the Action Party, then to the Republican Party and to the direct collaboration with Ugo La Malfa. Precisely the Additional Note presented in 1962 by the Republican leader as Minister of the budget of the first central-left government was, according to Maccanico, the most lucid and advanced expression of this concrete and decisive approach to the economic and social development of the country, synthesis and mediation of high profile between the democratic reformism of secular matrix and that of Catholic matrix. In 1992, at the beginning of the XI legislature, he was a candidate on the list of the Republican Party and became a member of our Assembly. An authoritative member of the Bicameral Committee for Institutional Reforms chaired by Ciriaco De Mita and Nilde Iotti, at the time of the formation of the Ciampi Government, in 1993, he was called to take over the position of State Secretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The constant effort, and on too many occasions frustrated, to achieve ambitious and shared institutional reforms of the system, is the true thread of Antonio Maccanico's parliamentary and government activity. In 1996, at the end of the experience of the Dini Government, he received from President Scalfaro the task of forming a new Government, in an attempt, which soon proved impossible, to arrive at the formation of an Executive of broad agreements aimed at a broad reform of the Constitution. On this and other subsequent occasions, Maccanico did not cease to be a weaver of a thread of reformative hope, too often broken by misunderstandings and contingent contrasts between the various political forces. In the 13th and 14th legislature he was appointed Minister of Posts and Telecommunications in the first Prodi Government, and in this capacity he promoted extensive reforms that paved the way for the first liberalisations of the sector and the creation of an independent guarantee and regulatory authority in the telecommunications field. In the course of the legislature, he continued to engage in institutional reforms, fueling the debate with intelligent and innovative proposals on the reform of bicameralism, the division of legislative competence between the Government and Parliament and the election of the President of the Republic. With regard to the Presidential election, Maccanico proposed, for example, a new mechanism, which included the direct election of the Head of State by citizens as a reserve solution to the lack of parliamentary agreement on a shared candidate, providing for the balloting by universal suffrage between the two most voted, in case of failure, after three ballots, to reach a majority of two thirds of the votes by Parliament in a joint sitting. At the end of the 13th legislature, Antonio Maccanico's commitment to this field continued as Minister for institutional reform in the Second Amato Government. He was therefore one of the protagonists of the season that led to the adoption of constitutional law No. 3 of 2001, of the reform of Title V of our Constitution. Returning to our Assembly at the 2006 elections, he presented a constitutional bill for the amendment of Article 81 of the Constitution, which will then see the light, with broad parliamentary convergence, of the next 16th legislature. The memory of its tireless contribution to the dialogue and joint commitment between political cultures and parliamentary forces, even of different extractions, and its undisputed talent in high-profile mediation can therefore only illuminate and inspire this season of collaboration between the major political forces, on the path of economic development and institutional reforms. In the context of the definition of constitutional architecture and common rules on the electoral and parliamentary level, one cannot but seek, on the basis of the teaching of the same Maccanico, the widest convergence and participation in Parliament and in the country. The words spoken by Antonio Maccanico in an interview published in 2007 are surprising for their relevance and constitute, to see, an extreme, heartfelt appeal to reforms, almost the ideal political will of a true reformist, expressing his boundless love and spirit of service towards the institutions, also and above all with the lucid awareness of their necessary adaptation to the changing times. "The anti-political wind of our day" - Maccanico said - "is investing the disastrous effects of bad politics (hopes, political personnel costs, favoritism, privileges, inequalities and various abuses), not the causes - among which the main is the inefficiency of the political system - the incorrect regulatory arrangements of the systems, the result of backward political cultures, of various ideological derivations. Only a policy that is the daughter of a more mature culture, which takes the true causes of institutional degradation, particularly the method of selecting the political leadership class, can remedy the failures that anti-politics causes. I refer to electoral laws, institutional organisation and constitutional reform, which has now become a mirage. In the hope that this legislature will treasure its critical and far-sighted analysis and finally transform the mirage into a concrete perspective of change, I am sure to represent the unanimous sentiment of all my colleagues in addressing a moving greeting to the family of Antonio Maccanico, present in the gallery, and inviting the Assembly to observe in his memory a minute of recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u17	Comrade (GAL). Mr President, our group's senators are also associated with the memory of this extraordinary protagonist in the history of Italy. On Antonio Maccanico the expression and image of the grand commis d'Etat was recurrent and will probably continue to follow him in the libraries. This expression and this image translate a desire of State and therefore of authentic appreciation for the authentic servants of the State, an appreciation that can historically be traced back to the roots of the Risorgimento. There was not so much, neither in the roots of the Risorgimento, nor in the youth formation of Maccanico a desire of France in Italy or some kind of opposition to the bad habits of the great political world in the name of the good habits of a small ancient world of specialized bureaucracies, as that of wanting to be and feel civil servant, as we say today. It is an idea to which, in the case of Maccanico, corresponds a great ethical-civil passion, that passion that had devoured and moderated the experience of a boy in a family of the best Avellino bourgeoisie (the father Alfredo I think was an accountant), a family that at the Risorgimento had always looked with particular emotion. Adolfo Omodeo's books on the roles of Cavour and Mazzini in European history - complementary roles, he always remembered Maccanico - were the most important, perhaps decisive, books of his youth. Political culture never as a culture of party or party; balance and independence of judgment in assessing expectations, profiles and procedures of the rule of law (other than ethical state!), Italy in Europe and Europe in Italy as the indispensable Risorgimento vocation of our future: this was Maccanico and in this he was an authentic grand commis, in the wake of that extraordinary inspiration that at the origins of the Republic had been Beneduce, Menichella, Carli, Saraceno and Mustache. They were great technicians but, precisely for this reason, they were top politicians and were characterized by a feeling of respect and love, never of aversion, for political activity. It is therefore not true that Maccanico had discovered politics at more than sixty years old and that until then he had only been a very high-ranking official - you, President, reminded us - at the top of the House, of the Quirinale and of very important Ministries, but above all an official. No. It is true rather than that of his extraordinary dedication to the State and that clear political intelligence he gave exemplary proof and witness in the spring of 1996. He had then been appointed by the Head of State to form the Government and Maccanico had focused on a majority that had policy and political references of center-left, along with political and programmatic references of center-right. His government was not born: misunderstandings of men eradicated the foresight of intentions. In that sense, Mr President, I would like to take up your reference to a reformist thread, to an aspiration for dialogue, which you mentioned in that 2007 interview. That attempt was dictated by the need to finally get out of the ruins of Tangentopoli, but also from the clichés, the wrong "catechisms" born in Tangentopoli, so as not to dry ourselves in these useless guerrillas, Berlusconians, antiberlusconians, and so on. Maccanico anticipated, in his generous topicality, then an attempt that just in recent days has returned to the agenda: he has been successful. Without denying the vote of confidence and hope in that success that our Group had the opportunity to express last week, you, President, will allow us some melancholy, since we had to see that attempt made just at the moment when Antonio Maccanico came out of the news and went elsewhere. Now the memories that crowd are so many. In me personally there are those historical, political, friendly, but many are sportsmen: they go back to the tennis courts, to the Internationals of the Italic Forum. We also happened to find ourselves in 1992 "colleghi": I young liberal senator of Naples, he authoritative Republican senator of Milan. I can't say that Maccanico belonged to the liberal line. No. In the post-war period, the choice of the republican form of the State to the detriment of the constitutional monarchy seemed indispensable to him and therefore considered it indispensable: not so much to turn to the left, colleagues (from the PCI had taken the distance very soon), but because - let's return to the Risorgimento - the school of democratic thought (the one of De Sanctis) was not suffocated by the liberal Italy of Sparta, as it seemed had happened to him in the post-Risorgimento age, in the Giulian age. Maccanico therefore had an aversion to jelicism clearly democratic and very unliberal. As a student at Avellino high school he had come to run the 100 meters in less than eleven seconds (which was remarkable in Italy at the time) and had also, and perhaps above all, studied so much and well: he had graduated from Pisa, had won the contest for parliamentary advisor and, in his own way, had participated in the Constitution. The day before yesterday Andreotti disappears, today we remember Maccanico. Maccanico was also, in his own way, a man of the Constituent. He had known Croce, Orlando, Nitti, had appreciated pre-fascist Italy (and had been appreciated). He had never found himself very comfortable in the socialist world and less so in the communist world. He had recognized himself in that line of republican democracy of Ugo La Malfa and had always been able to look, strong of his mother's experience, at Catholicism, at a Catholicism to which democratic Italy had to look without those prejudices that a certain liberal-massonic Italy had had a little old-fashioned. But, above all, Maccanico had loved Parliament, the idea of Parliament. He had lived with passion the functioning of representative institutions. You, Mr President, have mentioned many of your texts. Finally, I would like to add another one: the text of the law that had succeeded in having the House vote in February 1993, not so much (collectors of the PD, you have always misunderstood) on the granting of authorisation to proceed, but on the suspension of criminal proceedings, characterized by a mechanism of silence-consent that succeeded in harmonizing the old Article 68 of the Constitution with the rules of the new code of criminal procedure. That text would have spared us so many fights, so many twists and so many imbalances. In the last parliamentary term I had retabled it, together with my colleague Chiaramonte, and in this, together with my colleagues Bruno and Caliendo. I would have liked to have let him know, but - as I knew - there was no more time. Hence an additional reason for gratitude and affection for the memory of Antonio Maccanico. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u20	DAVICO (LN-Aut). Mr President, our Group also supports the words and those of those who have spoken or are going to do so in order to recall one of our colleagues, a figure of Italian political and cultural life who has disappeared in recent days, who we dare to call a high official of the State, a politician of race (as we used to say once), former Secretary General of the Quirinale with Sandro Pertini and Francesco Cossiga, often appointed Minister, has held the role of Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council during the seven-year term of Carlo Azeglio Ciampi and has also been President of Mediobanca. Antonio Maccanico has gone through a long political season, linking his name to crucial moments in the life of the country and our institutions, as has already been mentioned and as will also be highlighted by other colleagues. He was a real protagonist of the national political scene, which has always stood out for his skills, especially mediation and balance. With his disappearance we lose a personality of great importance, a man who not only held top political roles with great competence and determination, but also with so much humility and democratic participation, listening and attention to the other parties, the other ideas. In this sense, he also presided over important cultural and artistic institutions, fundamental for the intellectual growth of the country. His brilliant career in Italian institutions testifies to the great qualities of man and politician and makes him one of the most prominent figures of recent decades, a true man of state and institutions, as we say, who linked his name to some of the fundamental passages of our republican history. On behalf of the North League, I would like to express to my family and to you, Mr President, as the highest representative of the institutions at this moment, my most sincere sentiments of mourning, closeness and friendship. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u23	CASINI (SCPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with great emotion I too join in the memory of Antonio Maccanico: our country has lost a competent, learned, simple man, one of its best interpreters and servants. Anyone who has known him - I have had the fortune since my youth - has been able to appreciate his intellect, culture, the robust knowledge of political, institutional and economic dynamics, but above all a sense of altruism and attention to others, especially those who approached with curiosity and passion to public life. He was a great jurist, a man of state. Immediately after the Second World War and his degree in law, obtained in 1946 at the then Mussolini College of the University of Pisa, he began his career as a parliamentary official, and was a great parliamentary official, a great Secretary General of the Chamber of Deputies. The background in which he formed, in the 1930s and 1940s, refers to that Mezzogiorno in search of redemption and a path of development aimed at full integration into a unitary state. In post-war tensions the strong ideals created bitter tensions, but also unrepeatable moments of convergence. It is not surprising, therefore, that in the intellectual journey, the themes of Croatian liberal culture, the impulses of actionism and even militancy in the PCI are encountered. Shareholder of formation and family tradition began, in fact, political activity with the PCI, which however abandoned in 1956 after the invasion of Hungary by the USSR, passing to the militancy in the Republican Party of Ugo La Malfa. Maccanico was an executive at the service of the State, as he demonstrated as head of the legislative office of the Ministry of the Budget, Secretary General of the Chamber, Councilor of State and Secretary General of the Presidency of the Republic with Sandro Pertini and in the first phase of the seven-year period of Francesco Cossiga. I think you should write a book about the seven years of Antonio Maccanico at Quirinale with Sandro Pertini, and it would be a very interesting book to read. In a nutshell, I just want to say one thing: I do not think that the seven-year-old of a great President like Pertini would have had such success without the institutional shocker of so many tensions as that Secretary-General. In that first seven-year period, the art, proper to Maccanico, of persuasion, deterrence and mediation was best expressed, helping to consolidate in the hearts of the Italians the figure of one of the most beloved Presidents in history. He was Minister with the De Mita, Prodi and D'Alema Governments. And as a man of state and government he shunned the spotlight and the easy publicity. He was also president of Mediobanca in the two years 1987-1988, in the phase of privatization of the institute, taking over from Enrico Cuccia, who said of him: He is the only man able to arrange two empty chairs between them. With Antonio Maccanico then disappears a great protagonist of the institutional life of the Republic. A man of undoubted civil passion and great sense of the State. Perhaps of that kind of "servant of the state," as is said with a phrase sometimes abused, of which the mold has been lost. He, in fact, belonged to that group of civil servants whose technical competence was illuminated by an extraordinary civil passion and a profound democratic culture, with a natural capacity to always be a man of balance, liaison and mediation. A discreet and punctual adviser, a unique interpreter of that feeling that in a word is called: "sense of the State." He believed that the cradle of corruption was clientelism, and because of this it fed the cult of transparency and competition. In fact, he also observed with irritation the equity intertwinings present in the Italian business system: "I am photography," Maccanico said, "of a corporate model that has little or nothing to do with the principles of competition and the free market." He added: "We must hope for the positive role of Europe." He has held many positions, always in the general interest, never with the biased approach. It is no coincidence that in recent years his greatest concern was the extreme fragmentation of the political and institutional fabric. I recall, for example, his remarks on the reform of Title V of the Constitution, launched in 2001 (I remember this because I had the honour of presiding over the Chamber of Deputies and Maccanico at that time was a Member), that reform which, by introducing a multi-stakeholder governance system, would require subsequent legislative interventions by Parliament and Government which, on the other hand, were no longer occupied. He used to repeat: It is becoming increasingly clear that the issue of electoral reform has become the litmus test of the unsolved transition of our political system. How to blame him! I therefore like to conclude with a sentence of his, released during an interview of three years ago, in 2010: I remain convinced that it is necessary to put together the reasonable people of both sides on a project for the country. The re-election of Giorgio Napolitano and the birth of this Government are perhaps the best way to pay tribute to Antonio Maccanico's memory and his life spent in institutions and institutions. To Mrs. Marina, companion of a lifetime, and to her son Nicola I would like to express the great void that we also feel in the parliamentary classrooms for the disappearance of this extraordinary interpreter of our times and the best qualities of our Republic. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u26	Orellana (M5S). Mr President, family members of Antonio Maccanico, senators and senators, I am speaking here on behalf of the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group, in my brief speech, in order to recall Antonio Maccanico, who has recently disappeared. We do not want to shy away from this which we believe is an institutional duty, not to give rise to accusations of our supposed human and political insensitivity: our large presence here is the best testimony, unfortunately half-desert in this House. However, since none of us had the opportunity to know him personally, we can only rely, in the considerations about the person, on the words that have been expressed here and which will also be expressed later by our colleagues, whom we appreciate and subscribe to. We do not go into a political discussion on a witness and active actor of Italian politics for many decades and we limit ourselves, one for all, to citing the law that takes its name and that established the AGCOM, the Authority for Communications Guarantees, with the main aim of limiting monopolies and providing Italy with tools to address antitrust issues in accordance with the principles of pluralism. The annuities of position, the dominant positions, the privileges are concepts that we oppose and that, with results that are even questionable, this law establishing AGCOM was intended to oppose. In conclusion, the legacy we receive from Antonio Maccanico is above all the cult of transparency, of the healthy competition between intelligences against clientelisms that, as claimed, are the cradle of corruption. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u29	CARRARO (PdL). Mr President, first of all I would like to say a warm greeting to Marina, to Nicola, to her brother and to all the family and friends present. On April 25, Antonio Maccanico's funeral was celebrated. The church of Sant'Agostino was full of people moved, different by age, social condition, cultural formation and political opinion. They wanted to remember with affection a generous man. His human availability has enabled him to have varied and solid relationships and to cultivate sincere friendships. He had great preparation in economic and cultural matters, political ideas well rooted, but he was open to opinions even very different from his own, he never refused dialogue, he was always ready to grasp in the opinions that he did not share some nuances on which to dwell, in order to find a serious mediation with respect to very different positions. In 1978, shortly after the death of Aldo Moro, the president of the Republic Giovanni Leone resigned in a climate of great tension. The country was in a very difficult economic situation. Terrorism raged, ideological and social tensions were strong. Singing the national anthem and waving the tricolor was allowed almost exclusively during sports competitions. Sandro Pertini was elected President of the Republic and called Antonio Maccanico to serve as Secretary General. Thanks to the personal history of the President, his personality, his spontaneity, his high strategic vision, but also due to the assiduous, patient and confidential work of the Secretary General, very important results were achieved for our country, which found itself united under the symbols of the nation. The Italians perceived that there was no difference between those who studied, worked in factories, offices, commercial or service companies, and those who worked honestly in the State, in the sphere of justice, law enforcement, the Army and in the central and peripheral offices. Sandro Pertini had great esteem and deep affection for Antonio Maccanico, as witnessed by a television interview of the time, filmed by the media these days. Antonio Maccanico continued his office with President Cossiga until 1987, when he was called to privatise Mediobanca, a very important turning point in the Italian economy, which perhaps only he could achieve. In 1993, at another difficult time for the country, the President of the Scalfaro Republic called to the Presidency of the Council Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, governor of the Bank of Italy. Ciampi had great economic competence - recognized at international level - and knowledge of the institutions. He called Antonio Maccanico to act as Undersecretary for the Presidency of the Council. His familiarity with political logics, regulations and parliamentary practices allowed the government to operate quickly and effectively, achieving very positive results. Several times Minister, Senator in two legislatures, twice a member of Parliament, who holds various positions in the field of culture and social affairs, always working to the best, with a spirit of tolerance and education, Antonio Maccanico knew that those who have clear ideas, are in good faith and are determined, do not need to raise their voices and much less offend their interlocutor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our country is going through a very difficult economic and social time. We are in the presence of a not simple political situation, which led us to ask the President of the Republic to sacrifice himself for the good of the country and, as the President reminded us in his inauguration speech, we have serious responsibilities before us. I am sure that, if we can be inspired by the example of seriousness, ability to dialogue and the sense of the State of Antonio Maccanico, we will do good to ourselves and we will be able to give concrete answers to the Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u32	TRONTI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to speak about Antonio Maccanico's personality, also because I had the pleasure of personally meeting him here, in this House, in the 11th legislature, and of having him in the work of the bicameral Commission De Mita-Iotti. It was a short legislature, so the meeting was quite fleeting, but it was enough for me to grasp and appreciate the grace of the person and the thickness of the figure. Maccanico had a very special role here, and I want to bring back a precise memory of those days spent with him. In that legislature there were two great personalities of political and legal culture in this House, Norberto Bobbio, Senator for Life, and Gianfranco Miglio, disputable, questionable personalities, contradictory intelligence, but great intelligence, and I remember very strongly, having been lucky to be present, the dialogues on the maximum systems that took place among these great personalities in the pauses of the Assembly's work. The role of Maccanico was that of mediator when they occurred - and I assure you they often occurred - these "continent clashes" between Bobbio and Miglio. And it was a great political and cultural pleasure to attend and participate in these dialogues. Maccanico was not a totus politicus; as has been recalled here, he was a man of the institutions, lent to politics always in critical and very peculiar contingency. When the problems become acute and the solutions are lacking, these men are usually used, and Maccanico was one of these reservations of politics and also of Italian political and legal intellectuality. Senator Compagna recalled how Maccanico had no crickets of direct democracy: he loved Parliament and was a man of Parliament, who formed himself within Parliament and practiced his presence in a constant way. It was said: grand commis. I would not use this formula, also because here we have to recognize the practicability of this French model that I see again among the temptations of institutional reform. Our politicians do not have behind a school education such as the École Nationale d'Administration (ENA) or like the Parisian Polytechnique. Here our career as a technician and a career as a politician are separated and the personalities that count, by alternation, play the one and the other role at different times. Maccanico did this very well. He worked as a technician close to the Presidency of the Republic and the Presidency of the House. It was remembered how he left his mark on the Additional Note of La Malfa, fundamental in the history of our country. I would also like to mention the 1971 reform of the House's parliamentary regulations, of which Maccanico was a great protagonist. Maccanico then stands as a politician in Parliament and as a politician in the Government, until the famous failed attempt of 1996. And it is symbolic of his disappearance at the very moment when this attempt, in such peculiar and different forms, is to some extent repeated. We said grand commis no, but servant of the state no doubt yes. We should reevaluate this figure of the servant of the State: it is a somewhat obsolete figure, today unknown, with a sympathetically nineteenth-century patina of liberal imprint and of crocian formation, made of sobriety, seriousness, competence, deliberately hidden in the folds of the institutions, which is and never appears. A figure to reevaluate just today, when we are used to having everything and always on the scene and, then, we see and see that behind the scene of many characters, as under the dress, there is nothing. Institutions are a very delicate body; they must be handled and cared for with great care, otherwise they risk ruining themselves. In these twenty years, in the rage of institutional reforms to small pieces, in the rage of savage interventions on electoral laws, this institutional field has been devastated. I would like to recall a script by Maccanico entitled "Institutional reforms: problems and perspectives": it is a lecture from 1989-1990 that he did at the study seminars for officials aspiring to parliamentary work, in which he took a bit of the experience of the De Mita Government, judging it as the first government program. One of the key policy points was institutional reforms and the Government-Parliament relationship. And there he said that there was political stability and government instability in Italy. What we have seen afterwards is, instead, a government instability that is accompanied by political instability. And that is also the profound reason for today's crisis. Maccanico recommended, in his lectio, to implant the problem of institutional reforms in a gradual sense, in small steps: this is a lesson that we should keep very much in mind today. We said that institutions should be carefully followed and cared for. Maccanico was at the bottom a maintainer of the state machine, a great maintainer, those who know this machine very well, to perfection: they know how it works, they know where you can find a fault and above all they know where to put your hands when this failure is to be repaired. Here, we would need these figures very much today, precisely because this machine-state is something that needs to be lightened in its construction and structure and therefore reformed, as we are going to do today. The institutions are this through intermediate between citizens and state, between people and government; therefore indispensable, because through them pass and must pass the decision and mediation; they are like a filter to keep clean. Well, Maccanico was the one who kept this filter clean all the time and so he let it through, or at least he had the intention of getting it through there, decision and mediation. But politics goes through there, too. When the institutions lose this function, they lack their prestige and, when their prestige fails, it triggers that detachment that lies at the origin of this no longer bearable - believe me - crisis of the idea itself and of the very practice of politics. We shouldn't put up with it anymore! [[Applause.]] Maccanico was certainly a member of the elite. But, look, the elites are necessary, just as the masses are necessary. And the relationship between the elite and the masses must be rebuilt for the new times, it must not be reset. That is the point and, at the same time, the task of the reform that must be implemented. How do you select the political class? Not his suppression, but his selection is the problem. How are the management groups, the management classes formed? There is a need for process direction just as much as there is a need for participation in decision-making processes. The high and the low must reunite, they must not contrast. There is to practice a difficult, tiring, but necessary reconstruction path, a mediating plot between us who are here and everything confusedly pushes and pushes out of here. I'm gonna finish. The sacred criticism of what has happened in these years of corruption, separation, self-referentiality and even undeserved privileges of the political class must be accompanied by a reconnection of continuity between what happened the day before yesterday and what may be tomorrow. Here, this is the cure, the bridge that we must prepare, because from the solidity of the institutions, despite the failures of politics (the institutions today, fortunately, keep more and better than politics), only from this solidity can the real change come. It must be said that the traumatic interruption, the destruction of the past, is a regressive fact, a conservative fact: it does not change, but preserves and repeats. From there, from these tears, in the plot of history no new solutions have ever come: old returns have always come. I apologise for this fact that may seem annoyingly paternalistic, but it is not and does not want to be; but I take advantage of this opportunity to do so. I would therefore like to say to the new energies that have entered the institutions, also in this branch of Parliament: here, take advantage of the stay here, of this experience, to discover and appreciate figures like the one we are commemorating, because there is everything to learn. Equipment of an institutional culture is essential, it is indispensable for good public action, otherwise - look - you turn like shovels in the wind, depending on how the wind turns: this is what we cannot afford in this anti-political purgatory. One last point, Mr President: I am preparing, as far as I know, for the publishing house "Il Mulino," two precious volumes of previously unpublished diaries by Antonio Maccanico concerning his collaboration with the President of Pertini. When they appear publicly we make sure to present them here, with the excellent officials of the Library of the Senate, taking advantage of that event to resume the speech on Maccanico in a less celebratory way, but entering more in the merit and contents of his person, because we all need it, the country needs it, Italy needs it. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u33	Senator Tronti, we certainly hope to host an event related to the publication of the volumes that has announced us. He asked the government representative to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few words to express in this House the full and sincere adherence of the Government to this commemoration. The various interventions clearly described the life of Antonio Maccanico: a life spent entirely at the service of the institutions; an innovator dedicated to reforms, whose appeals must not be lost. The government, in expressing sentiments of condolence to the family, pays homage to a man, to an intelligent and serious gentleman with a high sense of the state. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u35	I suspend the session, that it will resume to hours 17,30, with the information of the Minister of infrastructures and the transports on the incident happened in the port of Genoa. (The sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u36	The next item is the report by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport on the incident in the port of Genoa. I call the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Lupi.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u37	Mr President, first of all, the Government, as I believe the whole Senate and Parliament, is close to the families of those who have lost their lives in this tragedy and closely follows the health of the injured. In this regard, I remember all those who have died, and I want to read their names, because today their family members, during our meeting, asked me that the whole Parliament should remember the tribute that these people have paid with their lives to the safety of Italian ports. [[The President stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] : Morella Davide, Fratantonio Daniele, De Candussio Marco, Robazza Michele, Potenza Maurizio, Tusa Giuseppe and Basso Sergio. They are injured: Pecchi Enea, Chiarlone Raffaele, Meo Giorgio and Russo Gabriele; they are still missing: Cetrola Francesco and Jacobiello Giovanni. I believe that the Government's condolences and solidarity should go to them, but also to the whole of Parliament. [[Applause.]] Since yesterday evening, with the President of the Council Enrico Letta, my colleague Minister for the Environment, Mr Orlando, and my colleague Minister for Defence, Mario Mauro, we have followed step by step what had happened and was happening in the port of Genoa. This morning, after having met the President of the Council, I went personally to Genoa and, after being on the place of the tragedy with the prefect of Genoa, together with the undersecretary Pinotti, I have presided an operating reunion which have participated the prefect of Genoa, the head of the marine direction of the port of Genoa, the general commander of the captainies of port, the president of the harbour Authority and the head of the Department of transports of the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports. At the hours 23 of yesterday evening, in the course of the maneuver of exit from the port of Genoa, the ship carries container Jolly Black, of the society Messina armoring, impacted the supporting structure of the tower of control of the harbour marine traffic where they have center the radar control system, managed from the staff of the body of the captains of port and the radio station of the local guild of the pilots of the port. The impact caused the collapse of the summit of the structure in the water mirror in front of and on the harbour dock near which the tower had its seat. On the basis of the information received at the time of the incident were present in the control tower 13 people: ten soldiers of the body of the captains of port (five were of service, because the garrison is active 24 hours on 24, but unfortunately - look also the fatality - five others were giving the change, because it was finished the turn of those who were working), a pilot, a radio operator of the local guild pilots of the port and a radio operator of the entrusted society of the service of harbour trailer. Following the rescue operations, immediately activated, three deaths were confirmed, in the early stages of the rescue, all of the military of the corps of the harbor captain and the pilot guild of the port. On the basis of the updates subsequently received turns out, unfortunately, to have lost the life - as I have already communicated - also two other people between military of the Harbour office and civil staff of the guild pilots of the society of harbor trailer, with a budget that at the moment is of seven deceased, four wounded and two still dispersed. Following the collapse the radio and telephone communications of the marine direction of Genoa have been interrupted, where the regional center of coordination of the rescue, role that, therefore, has been carried out utilizing the radio apparatuses and communication of the captainry of port of Savona, which alternate center of coordination. During the night and throughout the morning of today were continued the search operations of the dispersed, both in the port water mirror and in the area of dock affected by the collapse. The rescue facility saw the use, in addition to two aircraft of the coast guard, of five nautical means and of the operators of the diving nuclei of Genoa and Naples of the coast guard, while on the dock they operated in close coordination the sanitary of the service 118, firemen and police. The merchant who caused the accident was impounded by the judicial authority. In order to ascertain the dynamics of the incident and related responsibilities, in addition to the criminal investigation, is also under way a technical investigation conducted by experts of the investigative body of investigation on marine casualties, that it operates directly dependent of the owner of the Dicastery of infrastructures and the transports. As for the merchant that has caused the collapse of the structure, it is of the container port Jolly Black, that yesterday evening was in maneuver in order to exit from the port of Genoa, directed to Naples in order to make then route towards a series of harbour ports of call of North Africa and the South of Spain. The ship is part of the fleet of the armored society Ignazio Messina, that it has center to Genoa, composed of 14 ships of property and Italian flag plus some other chartered ones, all specialized in the field of the handling of container. The Black Jolly, realized in 1975, has a tonnage of 40,594 tons and a length of approximately 240 meters. The poplar part has an imposing superstructure that has impacted against the control tower. The control tower - I am referring to the data to give the size of what happened and the impact - was built in the mid-nineties. It was 50 meters high and hosted the control room, at an altitude of 40 meters, and radio communications equipment at the top. It consisted of a cylindrical shaft in which were inserted vertical connections - elevator, safety metal staircase and a technical compartment - and, at the highest part, a semicircular structure on two levels. Inside it was located the operating zone real and own, with to the first level the premises and the equipments of support and, to the second, the instrumentation and the apparatuses of communication and control in order to carry out the various operations of monitoring and management of the harbour marine traffic. In particular, the control room was equipped with a VHF radio system for simultaneous listening to rescue channels and those used for port traffic, telex and fax facilities, an automatic meteocenographic station and remote identification devices for all AIS commercial carriers and for radio coverage of the entire port area. The collapsed structure was part of a building consisting of two separate buildings, made of water on foundation poles and intended for accommodation for the staff of the captains and port services. The local rules governing the entry and exit operations of ships are the subject of the rules of the navigation code and the orders of the local maritime authority. In particular, it is noted that the pilot service for the merchant units of the type of ship involved is mandatory, it being understood that, for the code of navigation, the pilot on board assumes the role and the responsibilities of a technical consultant for the maneuver, of which it is however, and in the last analysis, exclusively responsible the commander of the ship. These - the master of the ship - can however always prove that the left was caused by the wrong indications made by the pilot. As for the service of harbour trailer, it is optional and the choice is entrusted to the commander of the ship, also according to the weather conditions at the moment of the maneuver and on the basis of the opinion of the pilot of the port, once this is boarded. I remember that the choice of the master of the ship was that instead of using tugboats. In the accident, although it appears that two tugboats operated in support of the operation of the Jolly Nero ship to which they were connected by means of special trailer cables, it is still necessary to ascertain whether these means were only available underboard or already connected by trailer cables with the assisted vessel. On the basis of what was learned during this morning's meeting from the representatives of the different components of maritime and port activities, it is obviously still not possible to ascertain and define with certainty the causes of the disaster. However, different reasons of the left cannot be excluded in the state. Excluding the causes of weather origin, since last night's weather conditions were absolutely perfect (quiet and beautiful weather), at this point only three can be the causes of the impact. The first one: possible propulsion failures of the ship; the second one: possible problems to the traction cables of the tugs; or any defects of approach (so, error of maneuvering), or errors of speed in the maneuvering carried out. However, I make a formal commitment by the Government to inform Parliament promptly of the conclusions of the ongoing administrative investigations, as far as the Government is concerned. As far as the jurisdiction of the judicial authority is concerned, the bodies are obviously different. Finally - we have already expressed it on behalf of the Senate and the Government - a duty and emotional thought goes to the operators of the fallen harbour nautical services and to the military of the body of the Harbour offices, that today pays a tragic human tribute in the framework of the mission that sees the personnel of the coastguard engaged every day to save human lives and to guarantee the safety of the marine transport of our ports. There are about 11,000 people engaged every day to carry out this task with the captains of port. A topic, finally, that in the course of the reunion I wanted to deepen, has been that relative to the restoration of the activities of the port. The port of Genoa is one of the most important ports not only in Italy, but also in Europe. The same president of the harbour authority of Genoa has reported me that, despite the crisis that has invested all our Country, the relative data to the 2012 reported to the course of the port of Genoa were very positive; I repeat, in countertrend, such element is sure positive for the city of Genoa and for the induced one that generates in the region and the Country. As for the restoration of the activities of the port, I have received assurances that already in the course of the morning the activities of handling in the harbour within have been resumed. In addition, radio contacts and navigation security controls are guaranteed by the port of Savona through the appropriate VTS system. In the morning of tomorrow, finally, will arrive a unit of 50 meters of the harbor captains that will assure ulterior radio connections. Regarding instead the topic of the safety - that it is to heart not only to the Government, but to all the Parliament and to all us - I remember that in 2012 the port of Genoa has enlivened 6,600 ships, with approximately 14,000 operations of maneuvering, and that from 2008 have been activated for the improvement of the entire harbour infrastructure (banks, dredgings, etc.) investments for approximately 500 million euros and from the same date had not been more verified, as reiterated from the president of the harbour Authority, accidents. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u38	I thank the Minister for his timely information.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Mixed Left Group, Mr Ecology and Freedom, I wish to express our deep sympathy to the families of the victims and missing persons and our closeness to the entire port community affected by this very serious accident at work, as well as to the entire city of Genoa. This shocking tragedy requires us to verify, in addition to the verification that the competent authorities will produce about the responsibilities and the dynamics of the accident, in the next sessions and that of the competent Commission the regulations on safety in the operations of this nature and characteristics in the Italian ports. In fact, the enormous pain it causes us must not prevent us from checking whether there are causes that can be at the root of such misfortunes. We are, in fact, one of the countries of the European Community at the last places on safety at work. Consequently, there is a high price that workers and workers pay with serious accidents, often fatal, establishing a sad primacy that we have the duty to cancel, putting in place all the necessary actions, beginning with the strengthening of the legislative framework. That is, we must put ourselves in the conditions that misfortunes of these dimensions, in an evening - as has been said - that it had perfect weather conditions, according to the same experts and responsibles, beginning from the president of the harbour Authority, must no longer take place. This is the concrete solidarity that the Left Ecology and Freedom announces on this solemn occasion on the constant and rigorous commitment, in favor of the victims and of their loved ones, of the colleagues and of those still in these hours they are working both to reduce the budget of the fallen and to lend rescue, both in order to restore the conditions of efficiency and above all of safety of the port of Genoa. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u40	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u41	Mr President, Mr Minister, fellow senators, the Senators of the Group of the Grand Autonomousists and Freedoms bow to the memory of those who are no longer there and participate in the anxiety and anguish of the families of the wounded and the missing. We greatly appreciated the concern and sensitivity with which the Government moved less than 24 hours from the tragedy at the pier of Giano. (17.51) (Following comrade). What has been said in this House by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport allows us to formulate a range of hypotheses in which, when the weather is discarded, those of ship failure, of a problem with the traction cables of tugboats, of an error of maneuvering, in speed and not only. From this point of view, Parliament has very much appreciated, because it is very interested, the administrative profiles of a serious administrative investigation that honors the tradition of the Ministry of Porta Pia that goes back to the Risorgimento and Silvio Spaventa. As far as the hypotheses that already crowd with investigative journalism in the agencies are concerned, it is very likely that at the helm of the Black Jolly, that last night has knocked down the tower of control of the captains of the port, there was - as is advanced in some notes of agency hypothetically - a pilot of the port and not the commander of the ship. It is however - and I believe it has done well the minister Lupi to clearly recall the norm of the law of the navigation in force - of a legitimate procedure, regular and frequent in the ships that enter and leave the port of call of Genoa. So, from this point of view, it seemed to me a little 'generic and Lapalissian the affirmation of the praiseworthy unions, who have evidenced that from the occasion it emerges the necessity to strengthen and adapt the legislative measures, because the safety of the life of the workers is priority over any other interest. Of course, it is not just a belief of the trade union movement. And let's be careful not to draw clues for self-flagellations and self-laundering that would offend the memory of those who are no longer there. As I said, there is the hypothesis of the failure, which will also be rebuilt from the technical point of view by those first-rate technical bodies that the administration of the State possesses and that not even the picking of forty years of regional emphasis have managed to break down in the tradition of the administration of which today Minister Lupi is at the head. From this point of view, certainly not for a consideration of optimism, that it would be improper and of bad taste, it is important that the Minister has signaled as in the port of Genoa the passenger traffic is already regular, the ferries transit and normally dock in the areas their reserved. To conclude, also our Group expresses, together with a feeling of anguish for the tragedy, a feeling of strong solidarity and gratitude for that body of the captains of port to which the final part of the exposition of the Minister was also recalled. [[Applause from the LAG and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u42	Senator Davico is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u43	Mr President, Minister, what happened in Genoa is a real tragedy that deeply affects us. First of all, I would like to express my closeness to the families of the victims, the injured, the people who are unfortunately still missing, the city of Genoa, the men of law enforcement and civil protection and, in general, the institutions. The facts of which we are aware tell us - as the Minister has synthetically told us - that yesterday evening around 23 hours the Black Jolly was coming out of the towed port (or not towed, since also the Minister has expressed some doubt on this reconstruction) from two tugboats. What followed was an incredible and devastating crash: a ship of over 40,000 tons against a concrete tower of 50 meters high where specialized people, competent technicians, citizens and men of that port, of our larger community operated. The facts that we do not yet know, and that must surely be established as soon as possible, are the ones that have caused the disaster. In this sense I invite you to return - you yourself have been clear and direct in this regard - to tell us in detail what has happened in the reconstruction of the real and concrete responsibilities. There is talk of engine failure or ship ungovernability. You read about cables that were or weren't there, broken or not. Yours was an initial reconstruction, a few hours after the disaster, and we thank you for that, but it seems to me that we need more clarity on the whole story. From what we have just heard it is clear that the reasons for the accident have not yet been clarified, but with the seizure of the ship and the analysis of the black boxes we demand rapid, certain and safe answers. Meanwhile, the D.A. opened an inquiry into manslaughter against the unknown. the president of the harbour authority of Genoa, Luigi Merlo, has declared that the ship absolutely did not have to be there and that it does not succeed of what has really happened, also because it speaks of wrong maneuver: but a ship of those dimensions does not make maneuver, however insufficient my competences in marine field are. It is the moment of solidarity and closeness to the victims, closeness to the city of Genoa and to those workers, therefore any other comment, any other speculation would be incorrect and not elegant. But the city of Genoa is in mourning: such a tragedy had never struck that city and I think it will be very difficult to heal the wound like those of many other Italian tragedies. We ask therefore that the Government intervenes immediately with some action, so that to the gravity of the loss of human lives does not add also the gravity in terms of productivity and of no more efficiency of that harbour structure, connected probably also to the block of the harbour and commercial activities own in that important joint, that it is fundamental for the economy and for the traffic of the goods of all the regions of the Italy North and the entire Country. At a time when the eyes of public opinion, the media, politicians and our eyes are turned to that situation, to that port, it would be appropriate to intervene in two fundamental directions. Firstly, on safety: if accidents occur, it means that there is not enough safety. It seems a bit like a pun, but in fact it is. Secondly, a clear and coherent policy is needed that aims at the realization of those motorways of the sea that could so well do and that so well could be joined to the other ways of communication of the goods, the commerce and the economic activity of our country. We therefore urge you to do so, Minister, once again reminding us of our closeness to the fire department and the law enforcement forces still engaged in that tragedy which concerned that field of commercial and labour activity. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u44	Senator Rossi Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u45	Minister, thank you for your immediate attention to the city of Genoa and to this tragedy that I follow from last night to 1 o'clock. They have always been Genoese and have been 35 years that I work in Genoa for which I know the port in a really deepened way. That is why I am calling on my fellow Members because this is certainly not the time for analysis. I agree very much with what Senator Cervellini has said (it is certainly necessary to carefully evaluate all that can be done with regard to safety), like the speech made by another colleague on pilots. Well, the latter are mandatory: there is a regulation that provides precisely that at the entrance and the exit from the port the ships have a pilot of the port that gives the indications to the commander. The Minister also made a perfect report on the fact that the tugboats were not compulsory yesterday because there was neither wind nor current, but the commander had decided to have them. I know that area very well. It's in front of my house. The second Lantern was knocked down; I saw that tower grow, today it is no longer there. I haven't been to Genoa yet, but something will actually be missing in the city; certainly the first activity of our city is missing. The news coming from Genoa is objectively distressing: seven confirmed victims, six missing, four injured. The city is upset and is struck in its industrial heart, in the heart of Genoese work, which is the port. The first thought, moved and affectionately involved, goes to the families of the dead; a hug and a great feeling of emotion go to these innocent victims, military and workers who were doing, as always, their duty, in a night that seemed absolutely quiet, both on the ship of Messina (who are great shipowners, great entrepreneurs, an ancient family that lives and works on the sea for decades, that has given and gives work and wealth to our city), both in the tower of control of the captains, and on the docks. The causes of this tragedy are not yet known. We can only repeat what the experts are affirming: it is a tragedy until now inexplicable, and I guarantee you that those who know the port of Genoa cannot understand how the ship could reach the tower. But after the memory of those who have lost their lives, we must turn a thought to the city, and I invite you to think that this is a tragedy not only Genoese and Ligurian, of those who live mainly of that port, but Italian. I remember without emphasis that the port of Genoa is the first national port, it is source of development certainly for our city and for the Liguria, being inserted in the net of the Ligurian ports, but it is unquestionably the most important Italian port of call and one of the most important and strategic in the world: it affects the Italy North and the Europe North, representing the connections with the rest of the world for our Country and for great part of Europe. The port of Genoa, of its past history, has to tell many tragedies at work. There have been, but they have diminished over the years and every time we have to remember how the components of workers and technicians that operate in the Genoese port of call, both the famous camalli (the historical downloaders) and the workers, the maneuvers and the pilots, all represent unquestionably the best of the profession: we are recognized an exceptional ability of the harbour workers. Even more this experience takes place in these hours with the riddle of misfortune. Even more our effort must be directed to the development of the port and, in parallel, of the safety of all the complex activities that take place in the waters and on the docks of this port of call. Genoa has stopped completely and the Ligurians today, stunned and tormented, are waiting for answers. I am very sorry that in a situation like this, the Football League does not stop the Genoa game tonight. I don't know in what spirit anyone can go to see the game today, from Genoa or from another team outside the city. Honestly, they seem to me to be serious inattentiveness on which, as far as possible, I think it is still time to reflect. I am also very sorry that they are already reported by the press, by television and on the sites, controversy regarding both the port and the owner, without knowing how things went. I remember that the port of Genoa, between direct workers and induced, gives to live to 30,000 people, that they mean as many families, therefore almost 100,000 people of the city, of which it represents the first activity. I therefore believe that, even if yesterday the security of the port has been objectively undermined - and we will have to evaluate for what reasons this has happened - we must be really careful to maintain high the position of the port and of all those who work there with great professionalism, so that they can have again a great future. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u46	Senator De Pietro is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u47	Mr President, Minister, Senators and Senators, I am very sorry for the grief that has struck my city and I thank all those in this House who have shown closeness to the city of Genoa and to the families, who are so badly affected. The disaster occurred yesterday evening in the port of Genoa, which, as it has been remembered, is the most important Italian port, an infrastructure of excellence, a vital junction for the system of trade not only Italian, but international, has deeply disturbed all the citizens of Genoa. The Genoese well know the hard work and the seriousness of the marine workers; they know how much self-denial they carry out their tasks, delicate and risky. Among these workers, the pilots, who every day, incessantly, even in the night hours, drive out and inside the port ships of all sizes. What happened this night leads us today to a series of reflections, from which those who have the duty to take care of the common good and the security of the community cannot escape. The Black Jolly is one of those great ships that every day transit in the port of Genoa; it measures 240 meters of length for a tonnage of almost 41.000 tons. For reasons still to be established, including engine failure or tow-related causes, i.e. technical problems, of which the possibility of happening can never be excluded, seven people have lost their lives, four have been injured and two are still missing. The condition that has unfortunately aggravated the accident is that it happened at the time of shift change, when inside the tower there were 13 people. This has made the consequences in terms of human losses and injuries even heavier. Who, like me, is lover of the sea and well knows the physical laws and the difficulties of maneuvering of the boats, especially if of great size and inside the harbour basins, knows that contrary to a terrestrial medium, that the slower it is sure more, a slow ship, like in phase of maneuvering and transiting in the narrow harbour canals, is difficult maneuverable and, therefore, potentially is dangerous. Given the criticality of navigation for the safety of our coasts and people and for the economy of our country, this tragedy must make all of us and above all the ministries involved for competence so that, in the choices that concern important superstructures, safety plays the main role and are valorized to the maximum the technical and operating competences. We all hope that the investigations by the technicians and the judiciary can, as soon as possible, determine the dynamics and responsibilities of this very serious incident. This is without any polemic intention, which is completely out of place at this time: the time of clarification will come. Knowing the technical truth is indispensable so that such tragedies can be avoided in the future. This is the moment of pain and closeness to the relatives, friends of the victims and people of my city. Together with the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, I join the condolences expressed by the mayor of Genoa, Marco Doria, towards the family of those who have lost their lives in carrying out their work. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u48	Senator Matteoli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u49	Mr President, I too, like those before me, wish to express my condolences not only to families, but also to the Coast Guard and the Harbour Office, which works well in our country. We appreciated - and we thank him for this - the minister Lupi who went immediately to Genoa: this did not always happen. I remember that the same thing did not happen with the story of the Giglio. I would like to dwell on a habit in Italy. We Italians are a little curious: when a serious accident occurs, we seek first of all the culprit. It seems to us, after having identified the culprit (even if it doesn't turn out that way) that we were freed from so many faults. In other words, before giving assistance and looking for bodies, you have to find a culprit. I remember the saying that death also wants an excuse. Well, having some familiarity with the sea, to me it seems to have understood from the agencies that have come out and from the report of Minister Lupi, that something of this type has happened: the ship that, if I am not mistaken, has a very high stern, left the stern, as always do the ships. At a certain point you get out of the stern and turn, giving the breeze. If after giving the brusque the engine did not work, it is clear that it was no longer possible to run the ship, and this went to crash. I'm not saying this happened, but from what I've read and seen, I think I understand that something like this has happened. On the ship, as expected, there was the pilot. Those pilots who board and take the ship out of the port or with the pilotina go to meet the ship, board and indicate how to get in or out. Pilots are, in general, men of great experience. I say this because the VTS that monitored the output and entry was already in operation for some time. If I'm not mistaken, it was already in operation for more than a year (I think it was implanted at the beginning of 2012). It is a mechanism that operates in many ports, in the most important ports of the world, and that up to now has given guarantees of great effectiveness. I say this because, for goodness sake, the judiciary must take its course and the Ministry of Infrastructure, which has very good technicians, will have to carry out the investigations of the case and verify if there have been any responsibilities; but sometimes accidents are due to chance and there is no responsibility of a man. If anything, there is sometimes responsibility for the technique, which suddenly does not work and is not predictable. I hope that at least this has happened; it is not that it will make less painful what families have suffered, but knowing that there is no man's responsibility I think it helps a little, because otherwise their pain would certainly be worse. I renew my condolences, on behalf of the entire Group of the European People's Party, to all the families, for this grave misfortune they have suffered. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vattuone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u51	Mr President, Mr Minister, Senators and Senators, I certainly never imagined having to speak for the first time in this House - and I also do so with some emotional participation - in the event of such a serious and tragic accident, which occurred last night at the Giano dock in the port of Genoa and which hit the city of Genoa hard and deeply, in whose province I reside. I too thank Minister Lupi - I do not know the past - who followed the tragic event on the ground this morning and who promptly reported with detailed information and carried out as analytically as possible today in this House. It is always difficult, in circumstances like this, to intervene outside of all rhetoric and find the right words to face a tragedy of this kind, which has deeply shaken public opinion, not only from Genoa, but from all over the country, with the images we have seen. First of all, here I express the closeness of the Senators of the Democratic Party, with sentiments of condolence, to the community, for the tragedy that struck the city of Genoa. But it is with great participation that we turn the first thought to the victims, the wounded and the dispersed that in the within of the course of the performance of their duty - as rightly has remembered the Minister - they guarantee security to the port. We join the pain and concern of local authorities and all port operators for this blow at the heart of the city of Genoa. We wish therefore to manifest our nearness to all the harbour community of Genoa, to the mayor and, with it, to the whole city, that tomorrow will observe a day of city mourning programmed from the same mayor. The balance of the victims - as mentioned - is very heavy and very serious: seven dead, two missing and four injured (at the state of current information). This budget is certainly aggravated by the moment of the shift change, as has been pointed out; however, it was a severe blow, in general, for Genoa. The port of Genoa is the beating heart of the city and is the dramatic theater of this episode. the port, in terms of traffics and amplitude, is the greater Italian industrial and commercial port, with beyond 6,500 transits, in increase in these last two years regarding the goods. It is an important economic flywheel - as Senator Maurizio Rossi recalled - which, from an occupational point of view, gives 30,000 jobs: therefore a trade junction among the most important in Europe and the world. It seems incredible: it was an ordinary maneuver, in a safe water space. Hypotheses have been made, and let's hope it was random. Investments have been made: they have been remembered the investment on the VTS monitoring and the statistics on the incidents, that from 2010 to today in the port of Genoa are practically disappeared. However, tragically, what we are talking about has now happened, and we must take note of this. I therefore agree with what the Minister has said, while waiting for the competent authorities to ascertain the responsibilities, because they must be ascertained: we are talking about tugboats, the commander on board, the pilots. However, while waiting for the responsibility for what happened and the dynamics of the accident to be established, it will be necessary to verify and deepen what is needed, as soon as possible, because Genoa is waiting for an answer. Once the responsibilities and dynamics of the accident have been clarified, measures to prevent the recurrence of other similar tragedies, which strongly re-examine the safety of navigation and, in general, safety at work, may be considered. With a tip of pride I would like to emphasize - and I thank the Minister who has remembered it - that the port of Genoa has resumed own functionality to full regime. Genoa has raised its head and in a few hours has put the port back into operation: it is therefore an encouraging signal for the city and for the entire region, to overcome this critical and painful phase. I shall conclude, Mr President, with what was said in the beginning, by further addressing, with sentiments of condolence, a moving thought and participation to the families of the victims, and also on our part we express gratitude and closeness to all those who work and work every day for the safety of the port and, in general, for navigation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u52	I declare closed the debate on the information given by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Lupi, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u55	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this is my second speech in this House and, with great regret, I repeat my speech in the middle of the desert, because all the benches are empty and these empty spaces alone qualify the respect of those who are absent for the institutions and for the role that the citizens have given us. I am sorry that President Grasso and Senator D'Alì are not present, but the speech was already known to the Presidency. On 12 April 2013, Senator D'Alì of the PdL was appointed Italian representative to the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly (APEM). Let's remember that the citizen D'Alì is currently accused at the court of Palermo on the charge of external competition in Mafia association. [[Comments from the PdL Group]] This confirmation comes, I imagine, with some embarrassment from the President of the Senate, Piero Grasso, who did not hesitate to endorse the choice of the PdL to send to Europe, to represent the Chambers, a senator of the Republic accused by more repentant of having had and still having relations with the family of the Mafia boss Matthew Messina Money. Given that there is a presumption of not guilty until the third degree of judgment, provided for by our Constitution in the second paragraph of Article 27, such appointment is at least uncomfortable and inappropriate, because it sees us on the one hand engaged in exporting the best of Italian anti-mafia legislation to Europe and on the other outraged for having sent us to represent in Europe a accused senator at the court of Palermo, with the terrifying accusation of external competition in Mafia association! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We ordinary citizens do not understand how the President of the Senate, former National Anti-Mafia Attorney, has confirmed without any hesitation the position of Senator D'Alì, just a few days after the seizure carried out in Trapani against some construction contractors, from whose investigation would emerge the relations between the aforementioned entrepreneurs and Senator D'Alì. The Senator will be appointed Vice President of the Economic Commission and member of the Energy and Environment Commission and perhaps in that Commission we will talk about banks. It is very serious that the international image of Italy and of all of us citizens is still tainted by such institutional behavior and it is even more so that Senator D'Alì has decided not to take a step back in respect of the institutions and the task assigned to us by the citizens! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u56	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u57	SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes, Mr. President, I'm finishing. We citizens of the 5 Star Movement ask the President of the Senate what reasons have led to confirm Senator D'Alì as an Italian representative at the APEM, without worrying to express anything. Silence and passivity on these issues, which have been shown in these classrooms for too many years by those who occupied the institutions, only strengthens the mob system. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator, please. SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes, Mr. President, I'm finishing. We send a message diametrically opposed to those who are outside, especially those who have fought the Mafia for years and who today risk becoming professionals in anti-Mafia careerists, forgetting the public ethics and the disposition of Article 54 of the Italian Constitution, which states that public functions must be fulfilled with honor and discipline. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u58	Senator, it seems to me that your statement that there would be a silence on the part of the Presidency is not true. In fact, I read the press release that sent the Senate Press Office on this subject: The nomination of delegates shall be communicated by the Presidents of the Chambers upon nomination of the parliamentary groups. Senator D'Alì - please note - was appointed by the Group of the PdL, in continuity with the mandate, already carried out in the XVI legislature, as representative of the Senate in the Bureau of Presidency for the entire duration of the Italian Presidency from March 2010 to March 2011. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u61	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, I rise to report to the Presidency on what happened last night in Val di Susa. Around midnight, a worker who had completed his shift at the construction site for the realization of Turin-Lyon, work of high capacity, was expected by a group of presumed No TAV hooded at the motorway junction. They were put on the road of the barricades to prevent him from passing, and when he stopped with his truck he was besieged by these subjects with stones that shattered all the windows of the van causing wounds for which a ten-day prognosis was formulated. This is not the first time I have spoken in this House to point out the increasingly heavy climate in Val di Susa, by a few thugs. Of course, pretending that these are just punk operations would be a serious omission. I believe that the No TAV movement, which has had a political force in Parliament since this legislature, which has chosen to participate in institutional activity, is not, however, a uniform movement. The violent fringes, which I have condemned for years, while many political, journalistic, intellectual or cultural circles continue to give way to them, risk leading to a very dangerous involution towards violence. What happened this night is a qualitative leap: we are now identifying the individual workers who earn their living working on that construction site, who are hit and threatened. I say this in a brutal way: I hope that we do not need more serious facts so that many people realize that there is a problem of public order, limited to extremist fringes well related to the anarchist circles moving in this country, and I hope that these acts of violence are commonly denounced and do not pretend not to be seen. Unfortunately - and I shall conclude - there are no political forces in this matter today, apart from those of the Democratic Party, I hope that I will not have to intervene again in this House for more serious reasons. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u62	Senator Esposito, we will inform the relevant ministers of your report. In this regard, I would like to inform my colleagues that next week there will be an inspection union session on the subject and then there will also be a debate on the presentation of a motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u65	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we want to denounce in this House the grave and deplorable events that have taken place in recent days in the direction of the repression of dissent. A sad two days to record against the students once again. It began at the State University of Milan, where, following an assembly against the eviction of the self-managed library ex Cuem, the rector of the University called the police who first cleared the library and then loaded the protesters, hitting them for a long time with the batons. It continued yesterday to Naples where, in Piazza del Plebiscito, the demonstrators of the basin consortia and students gathered to show solidarity with the young people of Milan on the occasion of the visit of the new Minister of Education Maria Chiara Carrozza. In a few minutes between the two groups the tension has risen and here the police have started charges and arrests, even if the students have had to point out that there was no fight with the workers. Journalists and videomakers present at the site to document what was happening, too. These are not facts worthy of modern democracies. We want to read you a few words from a journalist, Enrico Nocera: "It was just me, humble and assaulted journalist... - (...) Don't be afraid to throw yourself at me. You have no reservation in offending me, attacking me, beating me, humiliating me. I'm just a journalist. One of those who are not "guaranteeed" by the professional order, one of those that the work must sweat, pray, beg. All for a rag of video taken home, a brand of truth that escapes (so to speak, I feel good) to the watchful eye of the big warheads. You know, I got beat up in Naples today. Teared off the glasses, damaged the camera, seized the badge that proves registration to that professional order that only makes itself felt when you need money or votes. Today I was on the street, in the historic center of Naples, a stone's throw from Piazza Bellini, to document what was happening: a peaceful event (...). Only weapon: a banner. In the face of the arrogance of some police officer, who may wish to become a career (...). He was there to document, exactly. To do your job, like the cop does his own. We call on the Government and this House, firmly, to be active and sensitive with us so that these serious acts are definitively and unconditionally condemned and never repeated again. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u68	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, I have to ask for the floor because there has been a very serious situation at the Eagle today, and I regret the absence of the Government, but I would like to address the President to point out that the Eagle community is asking the Government to take a position immediately. In recent days the mayor of L'Aquila, with a symbolic act but clear and strong, has returned to the President of the Republic the tricolor band and has indicated to the employees of the City to remove the flags from the municipal buildings. This following the promises missed, for months, about the sending of resources that unfortunately have not arrived since October and are putting the city and all the crater in a state of awe. In these hours we had worked, even in harmony with the Government, to remove the causes of the mayor's protest and we had also reached a positive point. However, this afternoon, with a large deployment of law enforcement forces, a decree of the Prefect of L'Aquila was transferred to the mayor. When law enforcement came, they were in that number, in that amount you can imagine what the citizens and employees of the municipality thought. All those people, on the other hand, went only to hand over to the mayor of L'Aquila a decree of the prefect in which it is basically claimed that the mayor of L'Aquila with his gesture is a provocateur of the juvenile instances, that he is urging the protest of the young people, and that the gravity of the removal of flags from the outside of buildings disturbs the feelings of the younger generations. In the decree, the prefect therefore distrusts the mayor, claiming that he must put an immediate end to the conduct of which in narrative, regaining the tricolor band of which must be made respectful use and placing the immediate relocation of the national flag on the public buildings of this capital. The quaestor of the Eagle is referred to as the one who will have to provide for the urgent notification of this measure and the verification and moreover it is said - and I ask the House to pay attention to this - that a possible persistence of the conduct put in place by the mayor, despite the warning, may be the subject of evaluation for the adoption of the measure to suspend the functions of government officer. In essence, the mayor of L'Aquila, deputy for ten years, a man of the State, who has always respected the Constitution, is threatened with removal, as if he were a mobster. This is unacceptable: I therefore ask the Government to act, because we need serenity and concreteness. It is therefore necessary to remove the causes of the protest, not to force the hand on an administration that - I assure you - has only calmed the souls in these four years, rather than urging them. And in calming the souls, very often, the mayor has taken insults and grudges. Now, it is frankly and objectively exaggerated and unacceptable to pass on to a people's whisperer and even to one who needs to be removed. Perhaps there is a lot of nervousness these days, but nervousness is answered with concreteness, not with distrust. I therefore ask you to help bring back to the city and the crater the climate that is suitable for giving concrete answers to citizenship. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u69	Senator Pezzopane, we will inform the competent Minister and I believe that his words could appropriately translate into an act of inspection union at his signature, to obtain the answers he asks for.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u72	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, my speech will be a brief one to bring to the attention of the House a situation that is evolving precisely these days. Since March 6, the property of Husqvarna Motorcycles has passed from the BMW group to Pierer Industries. Afterwards, less than a month after the purchase, Pierer Industries took the drastic decision to close the company, placing 212 employees, out of a total of 240, in extraordinary integration fund for cessation of activity, without therefore any possibility of recovery. This situation generates a heavy impact on employees and therefore on a territory, the one below, always at the top of economic production and already today struggling with a very heavy situation of economic crisis. In the event that we are facing, however, it is a real plan of industrial aggression by a foreign company for the mere speculative purpose. The Italian State will in fact be paying the integration fund for a year to 212 people, because Pierer Industries has no intention of investing in a recovery plan involving Italy. On the contrary, the only speculative intention emerges to close the existing activity in Biandronno, to acquire the prestigious brand, downloading all the social costs on the Italian State and - very serious - abandoning 200 families to their destiny. We cannot allow this situation of industrial debauchery to take place in indifference, otherwise we would also have new, disastrous and rapacious speculative actions on the part of foreign industries to the detriment of our economy for the future. On the contrary, we must defend and enforce an entrepreneurial and productive heritage built with years of sacrifice, which, also and above all for financial rules that cannot be shared, is now easy to be the object of industrial looting. For the voice of the same unions one does not remember such a case in the province of Varese. This behaviour has never been seen, not even in the difficult 1980s, years of heavy industrial restructuring. KTM has decided everything unilaterally, overtaking all the social partners and without seeking any agreement. The representatives of Pierer Industries have shown that they are lacking an industrial plan for the production of motorcycles in Biandronno and it is therefore evident that the real arguments, that I do not hesitate to denounce as speculative, can only be openly declared by the new property. The European Antitrust must also be involved in this situation because very sensitive issues such as competition and the market are at stake. It is indeed a real industrial looting. The question everyone is asking today, starting with the workers, is why KTM bought on March 11 from BMW a company that has been losing millions of euros for years and for two months nothing has been presented, neither an industrial recovery plan nor anything else, for the sole purpose - at this clear point - of industrial speculation. The answer is therefore clear. It is a looting against which we cannot remain indifferent. The only objective is to acquire a prestigious brand to be used for new production lines abroad. BMW's intentions must therefore be clarified - I conclude, President - starting from the millions of euros spent by BMW in this company, with consulting costs that have even exceeded the full value of the remuneration of workers, not to mention the costs of supplies, which have been periodically and constantly transferred abroad. With this speech, Mr President, and my fellow Senators, we intend to anticipate the presentation of the necessary acts of union and direction in order to activate the interest and action of the parliamentary bodies, so that this industrial looting does not take place. We cannot remain indifferent to this reality. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PdL and M5S Groups and Senator Cantini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u73	I note that in Annex B to today's Minutes, a list of the Bureaus of the Permanent Commissions which, on 7 and 8 May, took up their composition will be published.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u74	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-20.ana.u75	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 14 May, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.42 p.m.
