ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00112, tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators, by abbreviated procedure pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, of solidarity for the work of the Minister for Integration. I call Senator Fedeli to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u5	Mr President, Senators and Senators, the motion that we are voting on today and which I hope the Senate will vote compactly is a strong, significant act of a desire for change, challenging for all. We are responsible here for the example we give, for the behavior and words we use, for the culture we express towards citizens and citizens. That the Senate chooses to show solidarity and appreciation for the action of a member of the Government is together a sign of a positive spirit of institutional collaboration, but also evidence of a problem, a negative sign of a crack in the spirit of solidarity and respect for roles and people, which should be the natural climate in which institutions work and citizens live. Unfortunately, we know that this is not often the case, that the rule of civilization and mutual respect, which forms the basis of the political debate, is often violated by us by behaviour, attitudes and languages that are not adapted to the roles that are held, to the ambitions of a democratic and civil country. Minister Kyenge was at the center of attacks that have highlighted the worst of the human soul, of xenophobic and racist culture, exposing instincts, prejudices, cultural overwhelmments that unfortunately are still rooted in our country. The heavy and repeated insults that the Minister has had to suffer, detrimental to her personal and institutional dignity and integrity, are an offense for the whole country, for all the people who accept to be part of a united community, welcoming to all, capable of appreciating and enhancing the contribution of each. Those insults and many discriminatory attitudes tell us that there is still a long way to go to achieve that country voted for equality, which the Constitution prescribes as well. Those insults and attitudes are also an attack on Article 3 of the Constitution, they must be opposed and, consequently, must be an indication of a path of work and responsibility for public action, which must have its directional lighthouse precisely in removing obstacles to equality. The issues that the Minister deals with for the whole Government, with competence and passion, are a frontier of equality, are our present and our future. When the Minister speaks of breaking down the walls, of understanding that diversity is a resource and says that Italy is not a racist country, but, indeed, has a culture of welcome well rooted, indicates a path not only to make us more righteous towards immigrants, but also to rediscover the sense of being an open community, which looks to the world strong of its own values, of its own history, of its own institutional responsibility. The crisis has often led, even by the shortsightedness of political reading, to favour a defensive closure, as if Italy, and every local micro-community, could hope to have more chance of isolating itself and defending itself than from a global world that seemed full of dangers. It was a misguided vision and still is. Those who appeared as dangers were and are, instead, challenges that are up to us to face and turn into opportunities. Globalisation and openness must lead us to look at international competition with the courage of a model not only productive but of values. The role of Italy and Europe must be to promote ethical development, promote globalisation and extend rights to the extent of individuals and their differences. Therefore, openness, inclusion and integration are not expressions of goodness, but strong values, which must once again be a decisive component of Italy's political, social and economic DNA and, for us, of our institutional responsibility. We must all become fully aware that integration is a factor of cultural enrichment and not only. Migration policies, citizenship, the right to essential services, school, health, work, the reception capacity of refugees and refugees must be central to our cultural, civil and national identity, as they have been at the most positive moments in our history. We must fight everywhere every stereotype, every feeling, every racist attitude and every discrimination of a religious, ethnic, cultural and gender nature. We must combat verbal and physical violence perpetuated, in particular, against women. Yes, towards Minister Kyenge there was sexism and racism together! Yet we have all voted in this House for the Istanbul Convention which also wants to fight against this sexism. Today we show solidarity, approval and support to Minister Kyenge, who among offenses, discrimination, racist stereotypes and masculine has collected the worst of which this country is unfortunately still capable. And I keep silent on the last episode of which was the protagonist an advisor of the province of Brescia, that still today does operations of this nature. Another institutional exponent who has responsibilities and public offices. But it is important to understand that insults, stereotypes and insults do not harm only and so much those who suffer them, but all of Italy, all of us and our image, both in the ways in which we tell and present ourselves inside (I think what a bad example we give to our children and our children who are today and our future), and towards the rest of the world. The confidence that the country must regain in the future and the confidence that we must regain in international contexts pass also from these issues and from these values. From knowing how to be a civilized, respectful, integrated country. That is why today's motion really assumes a very important symbolic and political value that marks a direction of the future that we imagine, and not only an act of solidarity, albeit fundamental and important, towards a person, towards a Minister of the Italian Government. As well as ensuring our support, I want to thank the Minister, and I'm sure I can speak on behalf of the entire Senate. Thank you, Mrs. Minister, for the courage, for the tranquility with which you react to insults... [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S and SCpI Groups]] , for the values he expresses and defends, for the ability to remind us every day, as an Italian citizen who gives the good example, that with her we can all be a better country. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u6	I declare the debate open. She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, citizens, we would like to take the opportunity offered by the debate on this motion to make a broader reflection, and also to talk about school, because the phenomena of racial discrimination are, for the most part, born of anxiety, fear and suspicion generated by diversity, otherness, that is, non-knowledge, ignorance of something. At the beginning of the 1990s, Italy began to be half of massive migratory flows, already beginning at the tip of its feet in the early 1970s. At the beginning of the 1990s, more precisely in 1991, however, a fact happened: 20,000 Albanians landed after assaulting the ship Vlora in the port of Durazzo and forced the commander to sail for Italy, disembarking on the coast of Bari, August 7 of that year. Thus Italy becomes aware that, even after the fall of the Berlin Wall and therefore with the advent of another phenomenon, of a second phase of globalization, that of neoliberalism, the world is changing. Globalisation provides for flows of people; it provides for the birth of crucibles, where ethnic groups are based, where differences (which are not diversity) come into contact. At that time, instead of taking the opportunity to start a serious and critical debate around this changing world and the urgency it was imposing on us, in some cases we may have preferred to seek refuge in the perimeters of a propaganda based on stereotypes. This is because globalization, with its flows and its mixes, threatened the foundations of our identity, not only individual but also of communities: within that community in which we were used to recognizing ourselves until then, in fact, the contours and profiles were changing and new communities were emerging, which required a reflection also on the concept of identity and national community. All these issues have been addressed by a strand of study, that of postcolonial studies, which - alas! - is still relegated to the academic classrooms, from which perhaps you should start going out to move into the classrooms of our schools. We believe, in fact, that the school, which is the place of learning, therefore the building of a critical conscience, of a capacity to be critical in the face of the urgency imposed by the contemporary (especially by this contemporaryity that changes its characters so fast), should be the place where we as Italians should begin to confront one of the historical nodes with which we still struggle to relate. I am referring to the chapter of our colonial history in Africa, which is still removed from our collective awareness of the people and also from contemporary history programs in schools. It is, however, an important chapter, because its removal has meant that in Italy the so-called myth of the "italian good people" was built. Probably, living in this limbo, in this myth that takes good people, we forgot about our colonial past in Africa that, for example, in April 1939, saw us exterminate 1,000 Ethiopians with iprite (the mustard gas) in a cave 100 kilometers from Addis Ababa and perpetrate crimes of this species throughout the period of our imperial experience in Africa. If we start to become aware of this and start a critical debate on this historic issue, we could probably also initiate a serious and critical reflection on this new face that Italy has assumed and continues to assume; a debate that has begun far further in the past in other countries of the European Community. Let's think about the traditional centres of the great empires, let's think about Great Britain, where migratory phenomena began back in 1948, at the time of reconstruction, precisely at the urging of the same British Labour Government of the time; let's think about France or Germany itself. We therefore ask that a reflection be started on the opportunity to finally dissolve this node, to bring these chapters of our history into the classrooms and to begin to form within the schools of citizens, individuals, ready to welcome diversity and otherness not as something threatening but as an opportunity for growth, enrichment and creativity. This is our hope, and we hope that this further episode may be the beginning, so it can bear fruit in this debate that is still lacking in Italy today. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and the Senators Barozzino and Carraro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u8	She is registered to speak Senator Di Giorgi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u9	Mr President, I would like to begin by proposing to my fellow senators a little review of our Constitution. Article 2: The Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man, both as a single person and in the social formations where his personality takes place, and requires the fulfilment of the indispensable duties of political, economic and social solidarity. Article 3: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions. It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. This is our constitution. We are in the fundamental principles, we are in the heart of the principles of our Republic, within what must be our deep convictions, as citizens but in particular as people who exercise their political role. These words speak to us of civilization, of the civilization of a great country, as we want to be and of which, President, we want to be proud, always worthy, of which we must be worthy. Therefore, for us it is still a long journey, a great path of formation, in our consciences, in our minds, in our heads, a path that must help us to become what we would like and what the constituent Fathers already so, so much, too long ago told us to want to become. We are this, these Italians, still insufficient, Italians who still have to make a great journey, a journey of civilization. And it is civilization that we must strive for, in a context such as that in which we are now moving, the European context, which requires us a great deal, which confronts us with other peoples, with other civilizations that may already be a little bit ahead, which perhaps have already been confronted in recent years with the many solicitations and opportunities that we now have. I am talking about opportunities: to grow by enriching ourselves with new people, with those who arrive in our country. They are opportunities, while we, in this Italy of ours that is sometimes too small, still consider them as great difficulties. It is a journey of formation that we must make, a journey of culture, that must take us out and make this prospect of growth even greater. It is a matter of taking this path of education, of formation, of educating civilization. It is a civilization that we must reach again, and the facts that happen in our country, unfortunately also within our institutions, make us understand that we still have to go a long way, even if much has been done and is being done; we trust that we can further improve in the future. Educating civilization: it is from this simple concept that the future of our society passes, that it must be founded on citizens aware of their rights and duties; citizens who are well aware of how respect for the rules and respect for others are the milestone on which every civil community is founded. Education means, in the first place, knowledge, because it is in ignorance that the fear of the different is lurking, because it is in cultural poverty that preconceptions and hatred for what is not known prosper. And it is in this broken and dark humus that it sets its roots in the underworld of racism, spreading its poison in society. Repressive laws, which are also necessary, are not enough to combat it, but above all prevention and education are needed, so that the response is not entrusted to individuals, but to society as a whole. So there is only one place from which you can start, a very important place - it has already been said by Senator Montevecchi - that is the school. It is from the school that we must start in this path of shared human and civil growth, so that it is young people, our young people who are formed to build a different future and a society that is truly better, a society in which the Nazi regurgitation does not find citizenship and in which every xenophobic offense hits us like a punch in the stomach. And like a punch in the stomach, it must strike any xenophobic offense, and it is necessary that all of this never ends up getting sobered up as a simple bad joke. These aren't bad jokes, they're punches in the stomach, and we don't have to tolerate them. Our civilization must not tolerate them. Words can really be stones and the rhetoric of xenophobia risks having pervasive effects, feeding stereotypes and violence in a weak society: the weaker society, the more these elements take place. Racism is born precisely from ignorance and a distorted vision of society and relations with others. Of course, not only from words, but it is in words, in the communicative potential that sits and finds constant food: these words really like stones, words that can become really heavy, that can hit, kill. The school - I am very happy that it is present in the Chamber, along with some members of the Government, also the Minister of Education - must do its part mainly, promoting a formative offer attentive to gender education, the rejection of all forms of racism and exclusion of diversity, as well as society, of course. And then we want the programs to also provide for the training of teachers, who must help them become teachers in this new world, to help them move with children within the classes as is necessary now, because the world has changed, in our schools and in our classes there is so much wealth. Sometimes teachers are unable to deal with it, sometimes they do not have the tools to do so. There is therefore a need - and we always repeat this - for resources, there is a need for determination to be able to make choices in the necessary direction, i.e. that of education in the school exactly in this area. It is the good example that must always come from those who play an institutional role. And here we come to us, who represent the country, the citizens, in elected assemblies or in other public offices. This is the commitment that each of us should take, aware of the task we are called to carry out and of the responsibility that we have as senators of the Republic, as elected representatives of this country, representatives of voters and institutions. We therefore have the task of representing the different sensibilities here through the comparison of ideas and proposals, with a political dialectic that can also be harsh, but that cannot end in insulting or unacceptable reference to issues of a xenophobic nature. We do not want to talk about it here; in this place any theme of this nature must be banned. Politics is called to be the mirror of the society it administers, to represent a community that is recognized in a common sense and in the acceptance of shared rules, those rules that I read at the beginning: the great rules on which our country and our Republic are based. Shared rules, rights and duties. A civil society in which there is no place for the nauseating unworthyness of racist regurgitation, even if it is just a bad joke, because this does not offend a person, but all of us: we must all feel offended. Dear Minister Kyenge, we are with you, with our strength, our courage, our passion of men and women who believe that this can become a great country, welcoming and proud of its differences, a country able to respond to what the world of today requires us, a country of which we want to be proud and worthy. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Petraglia and Simeoni. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u10	She is registered to speak Senator Mussolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u11	Mr President, I had the opportunity to address Mr Kyenge a moment ago, and I do not think that is enough. We must speak publicly and do so in this House. Today is an important day, because this motion of solidarity brings justice to this House and to the institutions. We must show solidarity and make it clear that the word to be said is: that is enough. My brief speech is not only intended to highlight the importance of the Minister's role, and be aware that integration is a very important delegation. When I participated, as President, in the Parliamentary Committee on Childhood and Adolescence, I said from the outset, when we met, that so much can and must be done, especially for children and for integration, that they are our future. So these are the signals that we have to give, and I say that also and especially as women. Therefore I say not to the senators, but to the men, to those who are listening to us: enough. Enough with prejudice; enough with not giving credibility to women when they have an important role, in institutions or elsewhere. Mrs Di Giorgi mentioned Article 3 of the Constitution earlier. I can refer to Article 51, since we have done so much in the past legislation to change and approve it in the area of equal access. This day, this motion of solidarity strengthens us all. You, Minister, have had a calm and serene strength. I wish I were like her. I'm not like her: I would have freaked out if something like this had happened to me. Instead, I must say that you were extraordinary. [[Applause.]] It's the truth. You have kept the calm of your ideas and strength. That is what we must prove. Mr Puglisi spoke yesterday at the end of the sitting about the dramas, the emergencies that we women have and about the feminicide, which I hope - I see President Palma here - can be discussed as soon as possible in the Justice Commission. All together we have to network, because we are a force. I don't want to talk feministly here, but why not? We must return to this spirit of community, all together. I am therefore happy to see on this occasion so many women with so many personalities and so many important roles. Let's go on about this, so every day there is one, on various aspects and slopes, with more or less serious episodes. I wanted to say it. At the moment we do not have a Minister for Equal Opportunities, President: let us appoint a man, let us put ourselves on a man, so that he understands the problems. The Minister for Equal Opportunities must not be a woman, but a big man, so he understands what is going on. It is they, the men, who must change their mindset, not us; therefore, I also hope a change of pace on this. As the colleague of the 5 Star Movement also said, school, integration, culture are important; and this calm, this serenity. Here, this is the example: moving forward with our strength, networking. We don't have to ask to get, we have. We simply need to move forward, to be able to buy back a spirit that we may have lost. There is too much individualism: we return to a group work, as there was a few years ago. I see Mr Finocchiaro in this House, with whom we have worked on the introduction of the law against sexual violence. Here, let's move on. You see - and I come back to this - the problem is not us, but the men, who have to understand that they have a problem as big as this House and unfortunately they have to deal with it. There must be no gender struggle: there must finally be censorship, a break with what happened, moving forward. I would like to thank the Minister first of all for what he has done and I hope that he will work more and more, even with provocations, which are always well accepted, going forward and having not only solidarity, but certainly the respect and collaborative will of all of us women. And men, too, in the background. Thank you, Minister, for what you did. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u13	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mussolini will not want me if he is a man to speak, since, as you said, I have a problem as big as this House, like everyone else. Madam Minister, our Group was the only one who did not sign the motion of solidarity with you. We will immediately tell you that we will vote in favour, but we do not believe that you need solidarity: from our Group you have confidence, which is worth much more than solidarity. He had the confidence during the presentation of the government program of the President of the Letta Council, who appointed her Minister, so he had our vote of confidence; still, he has the confidence for everything he will have to do in the matter of integration, immigration, in the action of prevention and removal of any form and cause of discrimination of a religious, racial and ethnic nature. We know that the President-in-Office of the Council recently - in the first days of July, I believe - has also delegated the delegation for youth policies, so he will have a lot to do in this area too: he will have a challenging job to do, and we are convinced that he will carry it forward with determination, ability and competence. Madam Minister, we have great confidence in you, we believe that you will be able to remove all the obstacles that still exist, we know that you will solve them. However, allow me to make a few remarks in a loud voice as a stimulus. It says in the motion that certain sentences have damaged the image of Italians, Italy and its institutions, fueling a racist thought that Parliament is committed to countering: these are words that we share. However, I would like to read to you what journalist Elisabetta Povoledo wrote in a long article published in the New York Times on June 5th, which reported the complaints of some non-governmental organizations against the identification and expulsion centres in Italy, which are bitterly criticized, described as cruel and compared to prisons. Under the sight of criticism is the center of identification and expulsion of Ponte Galeria in Rome, which is taken as a symbol of the conditions of imprisonment of immigrants and described as a prison: A high metal barrier divides the rows of barracks into individual units, locked at night, when the concrete courtyards are illuminated by day, it is read in the newspaper. And again, the author speaks of hospitality as a imprisonment of immigrants without work and with expired residence permit, which are supervised by surveillance cameras and riot guards. The prisoners - added in the article - may move in areas bounded during the day, but they are obliged to wear slippers or shoes without laces, so as not to get hurt or hurt others. Madam Minister, we cannot read these things. We have faith in you, but you have to stop things like this from being written in international newspapers. We must solve the problem of first reception centres, where (you are right) immigrants cannot work and where, instead of remaining six months as required by the law, they remain for years, taking advantage of free exits and daytime permits such as prisoners, where social workers have more the appearance of guards, where bureaucratic delays are needed to have a residence permit or political asylum, where sometimes family and friends are separated and placed in different second reception centres. We know that there is a business for management and reception. We are sure that you will intervene in this area, but we also believe that integration must be bilateral, in the sense that the extra-Community, the illegal, those who come to Italy must integrate with the resident, but vice versa the resident must be able to integrate. This process cannot be unilateral. We are perfectly convinced that even through youth policies you will know, having knowledge and skills, that you will make important contributions to solving a problem that is not indifferent and that is before everyone's eyes. Madam Minister, you must speak on what I have told you, because we cannot leave these unfortunate people who enter Italy under those conditions, otherwise we are failing, as a democratic country, to constitutional principles. Some of my colleagues mentioned the Constitution earlier: but does the Constitution say that it treats these people in this way? I have in hand an act of the Government (I took a copy of it today in the Commission) which is submitted to Parliament's opinion. This provision stipulates that animals must be spared any unnecessary anxiety, pain and suffering, and above all physical comfort and protection must be given by means of adequate thermal conditions and cleanliness; structures must be designed which must be maintained and used in order to ensure compliance with the procedures and conditions provided for. Do you know what this act of your government is about? He is talking about the requirements, their violations and the consequences of the law on the treatment, killing and slaughter of animals. So let us take more account of the animals of the people who arrive in Italy: this cannot be allowed, and you, Madam Minister, have this responsibility and have our trust. We know that he is able to carry out this task, so that we too can no longer see what I have just said in international newspapers. I shall end my speech with one final consideration. I have already told you, Madam Minister, that we will vote on the motion of solidarity. We have not signed it, because we have given it more: we give it our unconditional and unlimited trust. We know that it will have a time of six months or a year to demonstrate its ability and that it has already intervened in the relevant Commissions, to carry out its policy lines, which we share. By voting on the motion of solidarity, we too intend to censure the words of insult, which are detrimental to a personality such as yours, Madam Minister, who were not to be spoken. Those were words, but we also condemn the legendary writings and therefore also what is contained in an article of the Unity of November 24, 2004, signed by Livia Ravera, who called Condoleeza Rice a monkey. We condemn you and your writing too, we are against these statements, whether they are spoken orally or written. We cannot afford, even at an international level - Rice at the time was a Secretary of State - to read that in her there are three shames: that of being black, that of being middle-aged and that of being a woman. We are therefore to condemn, without if and without but, anyone who dares to pronounce phrases or carries forward xenophobic concepts, which must be banned, on any side they come: whether they come from a newspaper as the Unity, in an article signed by the current city council member to the culture of the Lazio Region, whether they come from the vice president of the Senate of the Italian Republic. However, we will vote on the motion of solidarity, even if we give the Minister more, that is, our confidence. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u14	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u15	Mr President, it is true that our country has been going through - for years, to tell the truth - a profound cultural crisis, which affects even the highest institutions. But our debate today is not a question of form: a civil country cannot and must not allow those who sit on its tallest sentences such as those pronounced by Senator Calderoli from the stage of the feast of the League of Treviglio, at the address of the minister Cécile Kyenge. It was a very serious episode, there are no excuses and excuses that can make this happen debilitated. The minister, since the day she was nominated, has been the subject of racist and xenophobic insults from the extreme right and from many members of the League: a veritable racist lynching. This, frankly, is unacceptable. But what madness is it to justify the seriousness of the insults that took place during a political meeting and not in the exercise of its institutional functions? And all this to enlist a crowd of 1,500 people - so we are told - using shameful statements, inciting racial hatred. We believe that not only those who hold institutional roles, but all political and democratic forces have a duty never to transcend, less than ever in racist vanilla. Political confrontation, however harsh and harsh, cannot degenerate into forms of violent racism, even verbally. We are, or should be, the guardians of life and civil coexistence. The real political leaders are not only the representatives, but an example to the citizens. Forget about this is not only irresponsible: it is one of the reasons for the degeneration of politics. It is very serious the fact that, together with the request for an apology, the League has decided to take advantage of this perhaps unexpected, perhaps desired, moment of recuperated media exposure in order to relaunch its campaign of contrast to the proposals of citizenship defined by them "easy" and concession of the ius soli. A legitimate campaign, even if we do not share it (this is democracy), that we of Left Ecology and Freedom will contract with every strength because we have opposing opinions; but that of the League is a campaign that cannot be instrumentally used for institutional roles. To Minister Kyenge goes the full solidarity of the Mixed Group and the member of Left Ecology and Freedom and a hug from the senators and senators. And full solidarity goes to all migrants who in our country too often still have to live with jokes like these, with smiles, with gestures of hands and arms. A sad legacy of an era that was, based on ethnicity, on national identities defined with somatic criteria, however difficult to find in an Italy that in its history has often been a land of invasion and for this reason a methic land. It is an era that we should leave behind forever and that instead, in a moment of crisis like the current one, emerges from the ashes, probably to seek out from us the responsibilities of our decline, of our crisis of identity as a country, through jokes, squeals, jokes; in a word, through racism. Migrants who have arrived in Italy, like the many Italian immigrants who have left our country since the beginning of the last century, have suffered and continue to suffer it, unfortunately. At the same time it is serious that many people in the country and also in this House have tried to minimize the scope of these episodes, claiming that it is an excessive fuss over a joke and insinuating that it has served to divert attention from the case of Kazakhstan or from the anti-crisis measures. It is offensive to the intelligence in this House to say that giving an animal epithet to a politician and giving a black minister orangutan would be the same as a light joke. It's not like that for us! We who have animalist attention know well (but I think everyone knows) that being compared to an animal is not an offense, but here it must be clear to everyone that we are talking about much more, and we cannot pretend that we do not understand the importance of the role that each of us plays. We are convinced, Mrs. Minister, that the only way to respond to this growing wave of racism in the country is to give concrete answers. Do not be overwhelmed by the policies of government referrals of broad understanding; carry out its programme and its priorities. Our country, in the last 20 years, has only treated immigration as an emergency and as a security problem. We have not worked to promote integration, but laws and policies have been produced that have allowed the exploitation of migrants, abandoning the many foreigners who live in Italy. But Italy, despite everything, has become a multicultural country. In the electoral campaign, as a coalition Italy Bene Comune, we told citizens that a priority was precisely the law to grant citizenship to those who live, study and work in Italy. Then let's start walking this path! The second generations are already Italian, citizenship is a mere formality. We work to repeal the Bossi-Fini law and the security package, which have only contributed to criminalising immigrants and creating irregularities. To close those inhuman and costly CIEs is an act of civilization that cannot wait for further hesitations. A few weeks ago, in the Committee on Human Rights, the recent reports on the IECs of the association "Lunaria" and the association "Medici per i diritti humani" were presented to us parliamentarians: absolute denial of the dignity and fundamental human rights of the person, even failure to respect the purpose for which they were intended. Then what are we waiting for? The closure of CIEs could be a new opportunity to mark a step forward in cultural and civil growth. The best way to combat irregular immigration is to facilitate the entry and regular stay of migrants in Italy. Alongside all this there is an urgent law on the right of asylum, to welcome the many women and men who flee from their countries and find themselves in front of walls of bureaucracy and protections only formal and not substantial. Perhaps with such a law we could have given asylum to the Kazakh family, avoiding one of yet another bad international figures. Don't worry, Mrs. Minister. If he really starts to build new citizenship, the offenses will unfortunately increase, but he will always find us of Left Ecology and Freedom and many citizens at his side to support it, because you must always know how to choose which side to stand on. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups and Senators Dalla Zuanna, Orellana, De Pin and Gambaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u17	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to point out that the recipient of our indignation has a very precise name, and it is of course Mr Calderoli, whose stay in the Vice-President of the Senate is an absolute disgrace for all of us and for the country. He, as is well known, must then be assimilated many insignificant local representatives of the same party, whose equally shameful comments I believe do not deserve even a moment of mine and your time. It is therefore clear that our adherence to this motion is to be understood as a clear sign of condemnation of all forms of racism and discrimination, therefore as a sincere manifestation of solidarity and human closeness to the person of Minister Kyenge. In no way, of course, can our adherence to the motion be interpreted as supporting, even indirect, the activity of a government that we do not share and with which we want to have nothing to do with. A government that is betraying the expectations of change of the citizens, denying the country the possibility to rise from the crisis in which the current political forces of majority have dragged it in the last twenty years. The 5 Star Movement is at the forefront of all forms of racism and discrimination. The 5 Star Movement is close to the citizens of this wonderful country, citizens who today deserve to have a political class composed not of characters like Mr. Calderoli but of people eager to engage seriously to restore hope and trust to Italy and its people. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Micheloni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u19	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor, even though I asked at the last moment. I almost wanted to intervene on a personal basis, since when I listen to xenophobic attacks and insults I jump back a long way in time, to the years of my childhood, when I was the son of Italians who emigrated to Switzerland. I do not know, Minister, if you have children, but every time I hear a racist insult I return to those years, to a suffering that we do not know, often not expressed: that of the children who see their parents offended and insulted. And it hurts a lot. So I find it hard to hear that some expressions are just jokes. Colleagues and colleagues, I asked to speak to invite you to think about children, children. I very much shared the intervention of my colleague Montevecchi of the 5 Star Movement, who spoke about the school. We also talked about the school in the Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad. One of the points we would like to address in the coming weeks is the introduction of the study of the history of Italian emigration in our schools. In fact, we live with clichés: we are the best, we are the most integrated, we have success stories. Yes, we have success stories: today I live in Switzerland, where I have my children and in a month I will also be a grandfather, and we have had a very successful story. But until the mid-seventies we had stories of suffering, racism and xenophobia! Until the mid-seventies, after the war, our parents were called Gastarbeiter, that is, guest workers: come, work, realize the streets, build the houses and then go away. It took more than 20 years to understand that as guest workers we would become the Swiss citizens of tomorrow, and this will happen also in Italy, with good peace of all Italian xenophobics. Madam Minister, Italy is unfortunately a normal country, where there is the worst but also the best. I am pleased to see my friend Delrio sitting at the government counter: a couple of times I went to his city, where I experienced moments of great level of integration and high quality. So we are a country, I repeat, normal and with this normality we must confront ourselves without angelism, without thinking that great declarations are enough or that the problem of integration is solved with the laws. I want to conclude with a strange vision of integration. I have spent my life doing integration policy in Switzerland, and not just for the Italian communities, and I am convinced that integration is a utopia, something we will never achieve, but a utopia that we must chase forever. Integration is a state of mind, a way of life, and it only works if this state of mind is found in the two people who must live in an integrated way: the one who receives and the one who arrives. This is the double meaning, for me, of the history of integration. We have to live it every day, because we never reach it definitively: an economic crisis is enough to destroy twenty or thirty years of integration. I conclude by recalling a beautiful prayer which, in my opinion, concerns those involved in immigration and integration, that of the mothers of the Plaza de Mayo: we must always start again, start again, start again. Good job, Minister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u20	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u21	Mr President, I wish to extend my greetings to all my colleagues, and in particular to Mr Kyenge, who, as my fellow Members have already mentioned, was able, among other things, to support with absolute serenity the very unworthy accusations made by the vice-president of the Senate Calderoli, providing with certain capacity the reasons that rejected them. The institutions must always be an example, as has been pointed out by my previous colleagues and colleagues, and this is certainly not a good thing for the Senate. Hence the need for a motion. However, I think it is appropriate, Minister Kyenge, to remember the battle that you are carrying out as Minister of this country, Italy. A battle that once again concerns a Convention that we often forget: we have forgotten it recently, when we allowed the kidnapping of a Kazakh child by a government that has made available a private plane from Fiumicino; we forget it when we reject one of the articles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which our country ratified in 1991, in which it is said that children are entitled to a citizenship when they come to the world. Here, I would like us to be able to reject the insults that you have received and which you have intelligently rejected from the sender, with your calm and serenity. I address Senator Mussolini, who has so openly declared the need to team up. I would like us to team up in relation to childhood, with respect to the great issue that we cannot bring into question in the Senate, that of ius soli. We can think of a temperate ius alone, but we must do so by putting at the center the citizenship of the children of people who reside in this territory, who work, pay taxes and have stable residence in this territory. I believe that taking note of this may, probably, be the best of gifts, indeed the best and highest of the duties that we could carry out towards a Minister who feels fully Italian, as it certainly feels of Congolese origins and that therefore has matured, in the course of its history, two capacities to be belonging to a territory. It seems to me that this is an added value, that many of us have, while feeling Italian and being born in this territory: universality, in fact, is a fundamental value of absolute quality. I hope that we can make possible the work that this Minister is doing and we do not just acknowledge that she has been the subject of a brutal offense, unworthy, especially for the one who has expressed it, who also has an institutional office. I hope that our understanding today is this, and not just that of bringing you our apologies and our absolute solidarity. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u22	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u23	Mr President, Ministers, Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, it is an act due to the motion that we will vote in this House today against the Minister for Integration, Mr Kyenge. It is an act of solidarity, after the unhappy expressions used against it, that have caused a burdening of an argument that still, nowadays, undergoes mental and instrumental regiments that in a society that wants to progress more and more should not at all continue to exist. The fact that a Minister born in Africa has joined the Italian Government underlines how open and ready our country is, above all, to complete integration, free from any form of discrimination. Italy is trying, through laws, to protect and safeguard all those who, not belonging to our nationality, once they arrive in our country can feel integrated in every way, can see their rights recognized and can fulfil their duties, as our Constitutional Charter said. Minister Kyenge, you are leading an important Ministry and we expect responsible policies from you, which will promote real integration, without tearing or fleeing forward; without, above all, promoting xenophobic drives, at such a difficult economic time, which is likely to trigger an antihistoric war between the poor. The principle of equality and equity is sacrosanct and a civilised country, as is ours, must strive to ensure that the state of uneasiness that still exists in some areas is eliminated as soon as possible. Since the first days of your inauguration, you, Minister, have provided us with the guidelines of your programme for the exercise of your function, saying: "I will propose any measure that can support equity, not only economic but also social. Moreover, he used the terms "cosmopolitan" and "co-development," he spoke of peace, of new lifestyles, of Italian citizenship, of active citizenship, of sexist violence, racist and homophobe, of welfare, of true work that must be promoted by fighting any form of exploitation and servility. These are all important points, which I would like to hope will be agreed between the two branches of Parliament, in order to promote, as you, Minister, say, the well-being and cultural growth of the peoples. We work together to remove barriers of all kinds, to ensure equal rights for men and women and, above all, to give them, which are still the weak part of society, adequate protection, in the family and working environment. Hoping to interpret a unanimous feeling, in renewing the senses of our deepest solidarity for what happened to her, I invite her, Minister, to address with the specificity of her role the problems still existing in order to achieve a healthy integration and to share with the various political forces that are within the Government the most important and significant points of her program, so that Italy is the land where the other is not an enemy, but a brother. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Angioni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u24	Senator Sollo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u25	Dear Minister, I find it abhorrent that in 2013 we are still talking about racism, especially in a nation like ours that in the post-war period suffered hallucinating treatments abroad. We Neapolitans have a different culture in this regard, perhaps because we have undergone so many dominations. But I would like to resume the intervention of a colleague who preceded me, who asked her if she had a daughter. I read your daughter's interview, and I have to say I was very impressed. With my speech I do not want to express solidarity with you, because there is no need for that. Many of us are different from her, for a simple reason: because from an intellectual point of view we are inferior to her. We're small mentally. She has shown her behavior to be a great woman, but I want to congratulate her as a mother, because reading the interview with her daughter, who is my son's peer, I realized that, if I had suffered the same attitudes, if the same writings had appeared on me that continue to appear on her, I do not know if my son would have had the strength to react with the lordship shown by his daughter. So, I am pleased and, beyond your institutional role, I wanted to congratulate you as a mother and as a woman. If I had a hat, I'd take it off. Congratulations! [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u26	He is registered to speak Senator Corsini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u27	Mr President, I have signed with conviction the text of motion 112, because I find here the words of a dictionary of civilization, of the civilization of political language: intercultural development, integration, respect for minorities, culture of the acceptance of rights, bond of obligation to the law. Now, even in the light of the events involving the Minister, I would like to enter the heart of an unresolved problem of civil coexistence in this country, which is the phenomenon of immigration. The term immigration, in itself, refers to the category of diversity and, above all, to the climate of suspicion that has always stirred confrontation and confrontation with the immigrant, so the other is or often becomes the enemy. But how does this happen? How does it happen that the other becomes an enemy? The metamorphosis of otherness in conflictual opposition sees its root allignare in the a priori exercise and, in a certain way, spontaneous suspicion: the suspicion that the other is negative for me, even before he really related to me. After all, the suspicion already contains the decision that the other is the negative for me; therefore, the exercise of suspicion, in other words, refers to a sort of prejudice, of pre-understanding in which the other is lived as an enemy. In fact, the other comes to us with the traits of the different. The traits of the different, however, pass with great ease in the traits of the opposite when the different seems threatening to us. And the difference seems to us menacing especially when our identity does not tolerate that there exists other than itself, that is, when, more or less unconsciously, it tends to totalize the sense. The opposite is said in many ways, and of these opposition is the most common and most experienced way. Transforming opposition into absolute opposition, into a practical contradiction on the basis of a totalizing identity becomes then a daily temptation to which one surrenders. Now, why in civilized, evolved, advanced European countries does one give in to this temptation whereby the other becomes the opposite, the opposite, the threatening, the enemy? It seems to me that there are two trials, lived also by our country, at the origin of this phenomenon. The first is due to a Protestant populism, claiming, which basically appeals to the people to denounce the established system of political representations, so the parliamentarians are the spokesperson of the people and no longer the representative of the people. This is the first form of populism. Then there is a second, an identity populism that tries to turn to all the people with the understanding to represent him in his demands, not only towards the political elites, but precisely towards those who are facing us: the foreigner. The alleged homogeneous representation of the interests of the whole community is characterized by a program of opposition to immigration, so the foreigner becomes the invader. These are the deep roots for which our country sees the spread of practices and experiences of neorazzismo, often unconscious, often instead, often clearly pursued as profitable at the level of the market of possible entrepreneurship, or better of the political entrepreneurship that pursues the possible racisms. I have referred to possible racisms, because they too have undergone a metamorphosis. What is disconcerting in Senator Calderoli's statements is that he goes beyond the metamorphosis of these racisms I will say about shortly, but to some extent regresses to the old biological racism, which today is surrogate by a system of psychological and social motivations that feed on feelings of anguish, a system linked to social threats, to that moral panic that, combining personal fears and collective concerns, obscures our capacity for judgment and discernment. That biological racism that had been fully stigmatized and that no one had the courage to resurrect anymore. Well, alongside biological racism, in our behavior (even of us civilized people, well educated, educated and advanced) forms of neo-additional or alarm racism are often practiced, that is, the discriminatory attitude that arises from the overlapping or addition between a somatic, cultural or ethnic difference to social alarm factors. We therefore have biological racism, additional racism and competitive racism, which is widespread in the customs of our cities. Madam Minister, I have been mayor of a city of some importance and I have known the competitive racism that operates in our neighborhoods. The reference is that offensive disposition that arises from the defense and the need for the symbolic or material control of the territory and its resources: the risk, in short, of the war between the poor. And that is why I prefer the word "territory", which refers to neotribalism, the word "terra", which is the sign of our most authentic belonging, which is the place of our affections, of our relationships, is the place where our loved ones rest. And finally, there is a differentialist racism that - as Senator Luigi Manconi writes - assumes at its foundation the rejection of the universal, the fixed categorization of individuals, the postulate of absolute difference, namely the biologization of identities: that identity, Madam Minister, which is attributed to her as a fault, to her who was born in Congo. Because there is also a Eurocentric intolerance, that is, the discriminatory attitude that comes from the defense of a culture, a system of values, a lifestyle, which comes from the rejection and devaluation of cultures that belong, precisely, to the other. To conclude, this motion values the dimension of interculturality because it takes into account that multiculturalism is not a political response to the problem of immigration: it is simply a sociographic description of the demographic composition of a society. And it takes into account the fact that assimilationism, in reality, declared its own crisis when we witnessed the revolt in the French cities, while interculturality indicates mutual knowledge and exchange and cultural enrichment of individual groups in society in general, and does not create new apartheid. The intercultural perspective is characterized by dynamism, presupposes a productive encounter between various subjects, a meeting in which mutual identities are redefined. And then, I would like to close this brief reflection with a statement of affection, if I may, towards you. To her, to her as a symbol of the many Italians born in foreign land and today Italians, to her as a symbol of the many foreign Italians born in Italian land, I do not want to show simply solidarity. He sees, in our country and in the political traditions of this country - and PD draws sap and food from this tradition too - there is a Christian inspiration that speaks of the dimension of proximity: therefore, I feel close to him. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and the Senators Liuzzi, Bondi and Cassano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u28	The debate is closed. I call the Minister for Integration, Mr Kyenge.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy for me to be here today, but I have chosen to be there to bear witness to the importance of this symbolic act. This motion for a resolution is a very strong symbolic act: to be able to finally recognize a role, to be able to strengthen an entire citizenship and, above all, the institutions. The first place I went after my appointment was the Senate. I was here, here, and I thank you here for this motion which, for the first time, makes it clear that there is a cultural change taking place. I would also like to express my thanks for the fact that the debate on this motion takes place on a particular day: that of Nelson Mandela's birthday, the one who fought so hard in the fight against racism. [[The Assembly stands. Live, general applause.]] That is precisely why today I have the courage and the strength to be here, because I know that it is a special day and it marks an important step for Italy, a cultural change. I thank all the signatories, and I also thank those who have not been able to sign at the moment. I thank the whole country: for the first time I have seen a transversal solidarity, which has no color, has no party membership, has no political affiliation. It is simply a struggle for human rights and a new coexistence. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, M5S, LAG and PDL Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u30	I thank the Minister for his words.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u33	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would have liked to have spoken earlier, but there has been a disagreement and so I do so in the explanation of vote. On behalf of the For the Autonomies Group and the Italian Socialist Party, I am voting in favour of the motion, but I would like to point out that it is strange that a country which considers itself civil must intervene in a forum like this to stigmatize the very serious and unacceptable behaviour of a high office belonging to one of the highest institutions of our country, which has seriously offended - and in our opinion irreparable, despite excuses - a Minister of the Republic. A minister who is an Italian citizen, to whom not only must he be brought respect because he is a Minister, but because he is a citizen of the world, a human being, a person who, regardless of his institutional position, has his dignity and who we are also called by this act to guarantee. Our country thinks it's a civilized country, but in many behaviors it proves not to be civilized, it shows how far it has yet to go. In particular, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to what still needs to be done in the world which is considered to be the most advanced. The words of my fellow immigrant in Switzerland are sacred and remind me, young South, of the discomfort and suffering that experienced those who lived in Piedmont Sabaudo because of the indigenous citizens of that part of the territory that, in times now far away (at least!), expressed themselves equally offensively. Therefore, it is the world, the human being, that often, in order to defend certainties, certainties, habits, own conformisms, manifests the worst of itself. Then we will certainly vote in favour of the motion, being absolutely convinced of the need, in the face of such unprecedented behaviour, for a formal act of this importance. Allow me, however, to make a few broader points. We put at the centre, as I said before, the human being regardless of sex, color, race, language and - let me add - age as well. The human being as the holder of fundamental rights, which must be guaranteed to all - I repeat: to all - without distinction. But if that is true, then solidarity, Minister, cannot be merely formal, because you, with your presence as a black Italian citizen, represent something more for us white Italian citizens. We cannot only make the gesture of approving the presence of a black minister: we must transform this symbolic and political act into consequential behavior. We must therefore think about our own order; we must think about those structures which over the years, in order to reassure ourselves and also to respond to some political game, have created and are unacceptable: I refer to the centres of identification and expulsion. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we can no longer afford to have such structures. We can no longer afford to have specific crimes that have now become crimes that characterize a certain kind of humanity: I am referring to the crime of illegal immigration. We must make progress on these issues, and we must admit that Italians are no better than others, because in order to be better than others we need better behavior than others, even from our institutions. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the last point relates to the specific behaviour of Mr Calderoli, whom I do not see in this House today. Mr Calderoli, note that you can no longer be Vice President of the Senate. [[Applause from Senator Endrizzi]] You cannot do so despite your apology, although you are a brilliant Member of Parliament (less brilliant as Minister, for the truth, when you were). It notes that, in order to fully represent this House, we must be of a different nature. Precisely because you are an intelligent and politically equipped colleague, you could not help but grasp the seriousness of your words and your behavior. You can't act like a child who, surprised by Mom stealing jam, apologizes. You are (was, in my opinion) Vice President of the Senate and you had to Remember that. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-SEL groups and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u36	GAMBARO (Mixed). Mr President, Mrs Minister, Senators, after listening to and sharing all the speeches of my fellow Senators, as the Mixed Group, we confirm our solidarity with Minister Kyenge. Italy is a country that, despite the absence of laws, is building a multicultural society. Italians are already practicing integration. At this point, legislative instruments and support are lacking to help develop this path of civilization. We believe that the real value of your appointment, Minister Kyenge, is the strength and determination with which we are sure you will take steps to combat all forms of discrimination. Integration between different cultures can only lead to an increase in our knowledge, our culture and the way we see the world. We agree with the need to invest resources in the school, for the training and cultural growth of the country. However, we believe that this is not enough. In Italy there is a crime of clandestineness, which certainly does not help the path of integration. We are counting on you, Minister Kyenge, and on the work you will surely want to carry on. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups and the Senators De Pin and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u39	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kyenge, our hope is that today's debate may become an opportunity to debate, in the tones of common sense, not the need for support for your Dicastery, but for constructive and loyal reasoning on the important and sometimes uncomfortable issue of immigration and integration. Mr Kyenge, it is extremely natural for me to address you, for a very simple reason: my personal history is very similar to your history. Like many in this country, I am the son of that generation of Italians who, at the end of the fifties, with the famous cardboard suitcase, have left our country in search of a job and a better future throughout Europe and the rest of the world. Our fathers worked hard, with their heads down, contributing decisively, in all European countries, to the reconstruction and restart after the disaster of the Second World War. Times passed, probably. Why am I telling you this, Minister? For a simple reason: this is one of the reference models that can serve, in good and bad parts, to address the issues of immigration and integration. Let's proceed in order. We believe that at this time of economic crisis the efforts of the Government and the energies of Parliament should be concentrated on ensuring that Italian citizens overcome this devastating crisis. Today there are 8,814,000 people who in our country are considered in absolute poverty: they cannot buy essential goods and services for a dignified life (according to official sources ISTAT yesterday). Today, guaranteeing a dignified life for all regular Italian and foreign citizens is and must remain the political mission of all political forces. I ask myself and ask you, Minister: is it wrong to try to guarantee to all citizens living in our country a dignified life for them and their children? Absolutely not. Whoever of us made the local administrator has contributed to this process, and has done so for all citizens, regardless of their nationality, religion and political convictions. In thousands of municipalities in our country live together serenely women and men of different races and cultures in their origins, but identical in everyday life. What are the conditions for this process? Rules: norms and laws that regulate, precisely, a civil country; laws and norms that every civil country, above all democratic, adopts and applies for its own good. But it is above all the common sense and the strong civic sense of mayors and local administrators that favours what can be defined as the natural process of integration. So, where do the problems come from? They arise when irresponsible political forces, masking their political projects behind false ideologies, undermine and try to compromise what we call the natural process of integration. And they undermine it by neglecting citizens, but above all by deceiving men and women who, like us at the time, look to other countries in the hope of a better future. Illuminated or presumed, these political leaders, in addition to high institutional positions, represent in a distorted way the image of the country strengthening the idea that in Italy everything can and can be had, regardless of the rules and norms. We believe they are irresponsible. In fact, Minister, there is no limit to this hypocrisy and the example of these days, which has seen one of the highest offices of the State proposing a safe house for all Roma, is a false institutional step and is a civic blindness. Minister Kyenge, we sincerely want to believe your good faith, but we are equally convinced that in our country, fatious political forces are trying to betray your good faith and that of the Italians only for their own personal and party gain. Minister Kyenge, promote the natural process of integration, listen to the territories: there you can really find the affirmation of your convictions. But the problems, unfortunately, Minister, also have other origins, much more complex and complicated. The upheavals in North Africa aggravate an already difficult situation and in this regard, Minister Kyenge, we make a proposal: do you really want to do something for our country? Go to Europe, make a big voice; go to Europe with authority, put Europe in front of its responsibilities, ask Europe to honour its commitments with our country, tell Europe to stop looking elsewhere, while in the Mediterranean people are at the mercy of events, left to their own destiny. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It is time for Europe to deserve the Nobel Peace Prize. We need ideas, Minister, will and resources for what cannot and must not remain an exclusively Italian problem. Minister, in the light of these considerations and of as many well-known problems, does it not seem premature to propose a new law on citizenship in a hasty manner and far beyond what is uniform, to the right extent, in the rest of Europe? Are we convinced that the conditions exist in our country to project ourselves even beyond the laws and rules adopted by our European partners? Are you convinced, Minister Kyenge, that the solution to the problem passes through the law on ius soli? We don't think so. The President of the Council, in the presentation of the government programme, explained to us the significance of his appointment. These are his words: A new concept of border, from barrier to hope, from insurmountable limit to bridge between different communities. Minister, we believe that this process of integration that we like to define as natural, perhaps with imperfections, is already underway in our country. However, we must safeguard a fundamental and necessary condition: the laws. The rules governing this process must not be distorted in the name of a summary and qualutist policy, the daughter of false political ideologies, but must be modulated with criteria for the good of the country and its citizens. We do not fall into the error of thinking that with a single law we can accelerate the integration process, excluding existing criticalities and known difficulties. So we're just gonna put our heads under the sand, putting the natural process of integration at risk. Minister, citizens must not be neglected and those who want to become them must not be deluded. In conclusion, Minister, your Dicastery will not have our support. We shall put an abstention vote. The current immigration policy must be improved, it must be modulated with the analyses and reflections that we wanted to emphasize today, but we want to offer you better, Minister Kyenge: we propose our collaboration, certainly critical but loyal and constructive. We bring to her the experience of hundreds of mayors who daily, with the common sense of the father of the family, make true integration (we exclude those few inadequate to this role). This dowry, like the history of our country, becomes a reference model for a recognized and shared problem, regardless of our origins. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Susta. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u42	GIANNI (SPI). Mr President, Minister, I have spent the last ten years of my life dealing with the so-called integration processes in a crucial area, I would say crucial - that of university and educational integration - having had the complex and delicate privilege of governing an Italian university that for about 100 years has been this profession: the University for Foreigners of Perugia. So, Minister, let me say that when you were appointed the satisfaction was twofold: the only flaw I found in your biography is the fact that you were not a student of this same university. I would not like to talk about this, Minister: we are not here today to talk about integration. I would like to start with the words, because we are talking about words and that is why we have drawn up the motion in question, of which the Civic Choice Group for Italy is a signatory and convinced supporter. Words fit into the ideological reality of the times, shape and transform themselves, even in combination with the customs of men and sometimes with bad customs. And precisely for this reason men very often try to make the words forget, because forgetting the words seems that you can forget things. This is a thought by Antonio Gramsci, who I believe will help us to better understand what we are considering today. They are therefore made of words that are badly used and worse addressed, and therefore facts of conscience, ethics and civilization. Politics, ladies and gentlemen, is or should be the synthesis of these three dimensions. Politics makes use of speech as its fundamental instrument, as the main instrument of action, and therefore politicians have full legitimacy in making it a powerful use, which sometimes exploits all its expressive potential, with the purposes of attack or defense, criticism, praise, search for consensus, mitigation or reluctance. What counts, however, is what must count, today as yesterday, is the observance of the rules of adequacy and respect: towards the interlocutor and his sensitivity, towards the context and, above all, towards the very function of the political discourse, which is a public function - we must not forget it - shared by the community, necessarily subject to its constant control and exercised in its interest. Of this very trivial principle the Anglo-Saxon culture has made a dogma, whose religion is political correctness. This guiding principle dominates the public communication of certain countries in order to protect the rights of individuals and minorities. What, then, is missing in our political culture, which no longer places limits on tolerance and passive resignation in the face of listening to and seeing continuous violations of the simplest rules of ethics of communication and the management of public debate by its most authoritative protagonists (public and institutional charges, established leaders or in search of affirmation, accredited journalists or in search of accreditation)? In short, what has failed in the sensitivity of this country, in our sensitivity and in our ability to react to the words of stone, about which Senator Di Giorgi spoke just now? Those words of stone that have been addressed to you, Minister, that we must not forget and that I would prefer to call racist insults. It is a bad episode that we have suffered, that offends an ethics and aesthetics normally accepted in our culture, even in Italy: a Minister of the Republic is not outraged, a woman or a foreigner is not outraged and not even a interlocutor or a person who is in front of us. This is a very serious episode, but it is not an isolated episode in recent history, and I believe that this requires a broader reflection. I would like to offer you two comments, Minister. Firstly, in the substance of political action, it seems to me that in our country the widespread awareness of the primary tasks of a political class that governs complex and advanced societies, in which the processes of integration are and must become one of the tools of development for the future: not the only one, but certainly one of the most important. This political class must remember that its primary task is to transmit a system of values; it does not matter whether it is right, left or centre, provided that values are concerned. And good politicians consistently have the duty to know, to observe and to practice the basic rules of civil coexistence, in which there is and must be respect for minorities and for all kinds of diversity, in which there is and must be a lasting investment in the education of the new generations to these same rules (it is very pleased that alongside you is sitting minister Carrozza). Secondly, in the form of political action, the most elementary consciousness of the grammar and pragmatism of ethical communication has been lost, which cannot in any way be distinguished from the communication that politicians make and which politics require. So, ladies and gentlemen, the impression is that an ancient principle has failed which we must seek and which is called dignity, which is the synthesis of all the dimensions that I have tried to sum up. I believe that the intention of the motion before us today, with the unanimous consent of this solemn Assembly of the Italian Parliament, is to return not only to its figure but also to all the important tasks (and this time, yes, I would like to recall the value of its process of government in the field of integration) to a great act of dignity. In this sense, the Civic Choice Group will vote in favour of motion 112. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and PDL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u45	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, Minister Kyenge, the opportunity offered by motion 112, to which the 5 Star Movement has also joined, allows us to highlight some important and worthy points of attention. The episodes that took place a few days ago, from which arose the need to present this act with abbreviated rite, were the subject of a careful analysis not so much and only of the events that took place, but also of the motivations underlying the thought of those who realized them. Far from wishing to dwell on the reprehensible words addressed to the Minister for Integration, Mr Kyenge, who must be condemned here again, my speech starts from another point of view. Basically I would like to start from the words spoken by the Minister himself: diversity is a resource for Italy, which is not a racist country, has a culture of welcome well rooted. Perhaps the Minister was a little too optimistic! Apart from the Constitutional Charter, which must be considered by all to be the socio-educational model to strive for, there have been no lack of other legislative measures aimed at combating those forms of discrimination based on racial, ethnic, national or religious motives that many of you have voted for. In this regard, it is recalled that Article 43 of Legislative Decree No 286 of 1998 provided that all behaviours which, in direct or indirect form, result in a distinction, exclusion or preference based on race, skin colour, ancestry, origin or religious beliefs should be regarded as discriminatory under Italian law. Even if such behaviors were not properly intentional, they would still be unlawful, because they would compromise the essence of human rights and fundamental freedoms. And again, again in this House, the 1993 Law No 205, known as the Mancino Act, was passed, which provided for the establishment of effective instruments for the prevention and repression of the phenomena of xenophobic or anti-Semitic intolerance and violence. This law was also created with the aim of countering violent typhosis within stadiums and propaganda actions against violence and racial discrimination. Let's not forget that until a few months ago some footballer was given offensive sentences of a racist nature. The Council of Europe has also established a European Commission against Racism and Intolerance (ECRI). It regularly makes public news and analysis of the phenomena of racism and intolerance widespread in the States forming part of the Council of Europe. The Italian Government has often received recommendations from this Commission in order to invite the Italian authorities to take measures against the use of racist and xenophobic speeches in politics. But perhaps the current government has missed these recommendations, so much so as not to remind some institutional offices that it is forbidden to make racist speeches in politics, so also in the meetings. The 5 Star Movement wants to spend a few words on the concept of racism. Racism is a theory that supports the division of men into races and characterizes the human species as composed of a superior race and other inferiors who, by reason of this distinction, are discriminated against and persecuted. In a broader sense and in common use, we can speak of racism to indicate attitudes of insuffering and prejudice towards those who manifest an ethnic, cultural or sexual identity other than their own. The history of racism and xenophobia seems as ancient as that of humanity, because attitudes of discrimination and intolerance have always served to strengthen political communities against alleged enemies on ethnic and cultural bases. It would be dishonest not to say that the history of men is not marked by racism. Of course it is that today's story, however, we cannot give it away with despicable racist, classist or sexist attitudes. Our history must not pass through the reading of Adolf Hitler's Mein Kampf, in which the Nazi ideology is exposed, which exalts the superiority of the Aryans and the inferiority of the other ethnic groups. Simply tolerate forms of racial discrimination! It is only a shame, but above all an offense to the dignity of the human being! Among other things, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, I would like to remind you that between the end of the nineteenth century and the first decades of the twentieth century millions of Italians were the protagonists of mass emigration, fleeing poverty and seeking luck. Many of them have been victims of exploitation and racism. Our Italians have been accused of being dirty, criminals, terrorists and stealing work and, even worse, have been apostrophated as sewer mice, drunkards, murderers and, even worse, mafiosos. We fill our mouths with words such as: reception policy, social integration policy, world citizenship, migrants' rights and more. Above all, we are outraged at certain inconvenient, vulgar, insulting phrases of personal and institutional dignity. However, we are not indignant when certain racist phrases are addressed to many Italian citizens, often to our children, who are forced to leave our country because they do not find a job. We are concerned that certain sentences affect the image of the country. But why don't we worry when they say that unemployment rates in Italy are at the highest historical level? Why don't we be outraged when our young people with a degree or a master's degree have only the chance to work in a call center or in some pub rather than in some Italian company? Why do we never put ourselves in the shoes of Italians abroad, forced to suffer forms of social discrimination? Why, ladies and gentlemen, are we so hypocritical? Why are we talking about something that shouldn't even remotely touch our agenda commitments? Why does this Parliament prefer to present motions, which are worthy of consideration, but it does not talk about more urgent matters and, above all, it does not approve laws in favour of young people seeking work, businesses in failure, families taxed? The Movement is struggling to understand your political strategies. He does not accept that they are scheduled - with rites that, when desired, are very short - measures that in the end praise the activity of this Government, which within it has a Deputy Minister who knows that a mother and a daughter are brought by force to a land that will ruin their lives or a Government that has appointed a Vice President of the Senate who allows himself to make unhappy jokes, but as a rally. Looks to me like we're forgetting who we are and where we're from. We of the 5 Star Movement did not think we would enter such an ambiguous and contradictory place, in a place where it is preached well, but it rockets very badly. This motion is nothing more than the usual, looting game to move the viewfinder from the most serious and most important problems. In any case, thanks to these unpleasant events we have the opportunity to express our disappointment, but above all we have the opportunity to highlight to the citizens what is done within these classrooms, where more and more people get caught up like old sour comaries to make false truths believe! It wastes time to turbulent the citizens millando nonexistent divisions within the majority, only to be able to blame now this and now this other of the nothing more absolute produced so far by the Letta Government, and to try to conceal, indeed in an increasingly clumsy way, the secret of Pulcinella, what everyone knows but nobody wants to admit: the theory of the single party. The Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement, in voting in favour of this motion, expresses solidarity with the Minister, with the hope that his future action will be aimed at promoting the integration and acceptance of those men, women and many children who escape from miseries, economic injustices, wars and corruption, and above all to allow them a future of hope, peace and dignity. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u48	BONDI (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the solidarity of the People of Freedom towards your person, as you know, has been and is full and convinced. We condemned without reservation and without ambiguity words that were not only offensive to her person and her role, but also to an intolerable racist and sexist content. This story, however, can and must help us to ban once and for all the insults, the reckless attacks, the words of too much, the very often ideological and preconceived positions that often characterize the political confrontation in our country. Above all, this story should help us to recover a calm confrontation, based on the content and the search for solutions as much as possible shared among the political forces. No one can escape this effort, this commitment, not even you, friends of the League. And I say that in very friendly terms, as you know. For you too, friends of the League, the time has come to make an extra effort to move from propaganda, sometimes from demagogy, to more mature positions on the issues of immigration, as was also revealed in part by Senator Crosio's speech, which contains new accents. We are all called upon to take serious, responsible, meditated and just decisions on the sensitive issue of immigration, as well as to combat and combat all forms of discrimination of a religious, racial and ethnic nature. This, Madam Minister, is not a political government, it is a coalition government that is born to face the emergence of the economic crisis we are in. However, this government can and must promote adoption in the sector which is within its competence of just and balanced solutions. On the one hand, it is right to take into account the existence of different sensibilities and positions within the majority of government and even the same political forces that make up it. On the other hand, however, this majority and this Government, in my opinion, have the possibility of soliciting, accompanying and finally helping a constructive confrontation between all political, majority and opposition forces. That is why you, Madam Minister, have a very great responsibility at this moment, which I am sure you will be able to exercise with wisdom and balance, with that wisdom and balance you have shown over the last few months and which you have shown today with your few words in the Senate Chamber. They are not useful, as you know, nor appropriate of the forcings or the escapes forward, rather they can be in some way counterproductive. It is useful, instead, a patient job, in order to seek points of balance, that reflect and guarantee mature solutions, in my opinion, in the Italian public opinion; solutions that correspond not only to abstract principles, both noble and just, but also to that realism and pragmatism that must necessarily inspire the choices of governments and states. This is true for all, even for us Catholics, even those Catholics who militate in different political forces in this Parliament. There is no doubt, in fact, that the speech given by Pope Francis in Lampedusa has struck the consciences of all of us, calling in the first place Christians (but not only) to react to indifference and to witness in private life, but also in public life, the essential values of humanity, solidarity and justice throughout the world. Christianity, dear colleagues, is not, as for so-called godly atheists, a doctrine, a culture, an ideology, a philosophy, but is a witness of life, which must be witnessed in personal life, as well as in public life. It is then, of course, up to us legislators, to those who have political or governmental responsibilities, to translate, with our prudent and judgmental discernment, these principles, also the principles of Christianity in which we believe, in laws and possible measures, adequate, effective and consistent with our degree of civilization. For me this secular method - I say it as a believer - applies both when we talk about the indispensable principle of life, and when we talk about immigration. You cannot choose at will what we like most about the teaching of the Catholic Church or what most corresponds to our political agenda. From this bad story, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, we can therefore draw a good, if we can: abandon the ground of the offenses, of the counterpositions, of the screaming words, that poison the Italian political life, to finally choose the ground of the confrontation respectful of the ideas, of the serious and rigorous deepening of the problems and of the confrontation on the contents, in order to reach possible solutions shared and above all to effective solutions from the point of view of the government of a great country like Italy, exposed like no other to the gigantic push of the immigration that comes from the Mediterranean. In this spirit, Madam Minister, I have the privilege and the honour of declaring the vote in favour of the parliamentary group of the PDL, to which I belong, to the motion of solidarity with you. [[Applause from the PDL, PD, SCPI and LAG groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u51	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, what we are about to vote on is not, in my opinion, a remedial act or a compensation act. I'll say it right away, otherwise I think we'd make a different sense of this day. As much as I consider that the attacks on Minister Kyenge were unacceptable (and I want to use a very euphemism), I believe that today we are here for another reason. In fact, those attacks and other episodes that we have seen in recent days dotted the Italian chronicles and also occupy pages of prestigious newspapers tell us that that a priori, on which it seems that there is absolute unanimity in this House, is not so true; it is certainly declaimed, but it does not fully belong to all the practices that politics and important pieces of the ruling class of this country put in place every day. I come out of the smokeiness of the debut to say immediately that certainly the attacks that have occurred against the Minister are an emergency on the fact that that a priori of the common intention to fight discrimination always and in any case (it will then be decided which are the most right policies to promote integration) is not at all undisputed. Just yesterday on the pages of the largest Italian newspaper a maître à penser among the most popular of this country wrote some incredible things, such as to make me doubt, at a first reading, that it was a satirical piece rather than the thoughtful and thoughtful written, precisely, an important Italian intellectual. I don't know how many of you had a chance to read it. It was this mixture of misogyny and presumption, of arrogance and discredit towards the Minister, but above all the policies that she herself undertook, which struck me particularly, especially because she was seasoned with the affirmation of being, the writer, the only depositary of truth, so much so that she had written a book, and it seems that all the truth of the world about integration was contained in her book. Not to mention the ridicule - I repeat: ridiculous - in the last part of the article, in which, by inviting the President of the Council, if he had found himself presiding over another Government, to choose his own ministers more carefully, he wrote: It is no longer possible to afford - the President Letta - combined (or rather confused) governments with mysterious recommendations of mysterious powers. Have we reached the P3? And he was talking about Minister Kyenge. Why do I quote this irrelevant contribution to the use of paper in our country? I quote him for the reason that, precisely then, it is true that that a priori is not so undisputed in the country, since its ruling classes are not only contained in this House, but write in the newspapers and operate in a whole range of fields of activity in which they influence public opinion. That is not just the point. In her speech today, the Minister referred to the chapter on human rights. Once again in this House I have had the opportunity to draw attention to the fact that, while the proclamation of human rights occupies - and with great intensity - also our chancellories (let us call them so) and the classrooms of this Parliament in the adoption, ratification of many international acts, when we go down to the practice of obvious holes manifest themselves. They are thus manifested on the human rights side of women as they appear, for example, in the event that a principle that should be sacred, having the same rank as constitutional principles, i.e. that of non-refoulement, is considered, instead, a principle that can be jumped equally with great tranquility when a woman and a six-year-old are expelled. [[Applause from the PD and LN-Aut groups]] There is, that is, a gap between what we say and what we practice and it is this gap that we have to fill. I very much appreciated Mr Montevecchi's speech for the very reason that his speech had a thought on how to fill the gap. The study of the colonial period and the effects of postcolonialism could probably serve our children to grow with that little sense of guilt towards the acts that have been carried out towards the colonized populations that helps to understand, as well as helps to understand the intervention of my colleague Micheloni. Therefore, we are here to understand that the a priori declaimed is not always flesh and blood of the actions of the same ruling classes of this country and to equip ourselves with this risk. All this happens at a time - I want to say this - particularly difficult, because the economic and employment crisis in this country is heartbreaking and history teaches us that when this happens, because of the feeling of selfishness, the defense of the margin of privilege, of the very little one has, the principles of solidarity and communion risk being put in great crisis. In the same way, always ready to rise is that ghost of the scapegoat on which to dump every reason of our troubles and unfortunately in the history of the world xenophobia has nourished of this, even with forms that sometimes we remember quite roughly. Certainly it is not the case of Italy (I refer to history because it must be a teacher), but in the concentration camps Jews, Roma and homosexuals were locked up and that means something. Therefore, we are at a time when the integration policies that are entrusted to the responsibility of Minister Kyenge will need a few declamations and very, very hard work. That is why we are here today, Mrs Minister. That is why we wanted to show solidarity not only to you as a person (that you have already had the opportunity to express yourself in a thousand ways), but to the importance, seriousness and hardness of your work and we all make you aware - I begin with myself - of the fact that sometimes we risk thinking that we are starting from a solid foundation, while it presents fractures, fragility and some weakness. I therefore think that today's debate can be a useful opportunity, not to celebrate our virtue, but to identify still our defects and our shortcomings and to move forward on this road at his side. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups and Senators Campanella and Ichino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u54	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, I agree with the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u55	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo and Senator Ghedini, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Zanda and other senators to vote by simultaneous electronic ballot on motion 112. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S and SCpI groups and Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u58	COLUCCI (PdL). Mr President, I would just like to point out that I was withdrawing my card, so I did not have time to vote on the motion, and that my vote would have been in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u59	The Presidency takes note of this. We thank the Government and all its representatives who took part in this meeting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u62	BATTIST (M5S). Mr President, today, as Mr Kyenge also mentioned, Nelson Mandela's 95th birthday is celebrated. Since 2010, the United Nations has declared Mandela Day on 18 July. Nelson Mandela, also called Madiba, in 1995 was able to assist as a free man and President of South Africa in the victory of the World Rugby Championship by his country's team, the "Springboks." Just as in rugby the players of the two teams confront each other vigorously but loyally in a physical sport, of contact, of combat, he himself struggled in his life for the abolition of apartheid and all policies of racial segregation that lasted as long as 55 years, from 1948 to 1993. I would like to remind you that Nelson Mandela served 18 of the 27 years of his detention at the maximum security prison in Robben Island, cell No. 466. The cell was three feet by three in size. His fight earned him the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993. From June 8 Madiba is hospitalized in Pretoria for a relapse of a lung infection; his health conditions are critical but stable. I would like to focus on the Mandela Day, set up by the United Nations with the aim of encouraging people to do good. The UN Secretary-General, Mr Ban Ki-moon, invited him to honour him by acting in favour of others. The "Nelson Mandela Centre of Memory," together with other groups, invited people from all over the world to honor the spiritual heritage of the elderly leader by giving 67 minutes to volunteering, as 67 are the years he dedicated to his country as a political activist, held in conscience and as the first democratically elected black president. Nelson Mandela said: I fought against white domination and against black domination. I have cultivated the ideals of a free and democratic society in which everyone can live together in harmony, with equal possibilities. This is an ideal for which I hope to live and which I hope to achieve, but, if necessary, it is an ideal for which I am ready to die. The entire 5 Star Movement and I wish President Nelson Mandela a happy birthday. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators De Cristofaro, Gotor and Manassero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u63	The President of the Senate joins. (Mr Kyenge went to the chair and said hello to President Grasso. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u66	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am quoting a post from the ISDE (International Society of Doctors for the Environment), the International Association of Environmental Doctors. "ISDE Italia responds to Commissioner Bondi: Taranto's problem isn't "cigarette smoke" " - Ilva's Commissioner, Enrico Bondi was appointed by the Government to represent everyone's interests. However, his recent claims, which reflect a company's expertise, are far from being impartial. In his report to the President of the Puglia Region, Bondi cites in fact a report of the business experts (Boffetta and others) according to which: "It is known that in Taranto, port city, the availability of cigarettes was in the past higher than in other areas of Southern Italy where for economic reasons the cigarette smoke was reduced until the 70s". The phrase implies that there would be no excess cancer due to pollution but that excess would be attributable to cigarette consumption. We argue this way of putting the problem: (a) the commissioner cannot marry a biased thesis, however superficially; (b) the report delivered by the experts of the Taranto Public Prosecutor and the public bodies in charge (Istituto Superiore di Sanità, ISPRA, ARPA Puglia, Regional Health Agency Pugliese) contains an in-depth analysis of the mortality of cancers in Taranto and its neighborhoods, and must be considered in its entirety. The partiality and superficiality of Bondi's statements are consistent with the ten-year disinterest of our ruling classes in the damage caused by environmental pollution to the environment and human health. Both the Commissioner and the expert report seem to ignore the evidence that air pollution causes lung cancer even in non-smokers. The authoritative magazine Lancet Oncology publishes these days the results of a major European epidemiological study that shows how air pollution plays an important role in increasing the risk of lung cancer even in non-smokers. If Bondi, as his duty would have been, had bothered to find out about the scientific evidence as a whole, and not only about the opinion of the experts in part, he would have drawn different conclusions. It would thus have shown respect for citizens, workers and health workers rather than acting on the basis of a pre-established agenda. On the basis of these simple reflections ISDE Italy asks the Italian Government to ensure that the truth is restored and to call its representatives to a greater balance and sense of justice. [[Applause from the M5S groups and Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u69	Mr Manassero (PD). Mr President, Senators and Senators, we spent the afternoon discussing the motion that we tabled to express our solidarity with Minister Kyenge with the serious racist insults expressed by a Vice President of the Senate during a meeting, and that we all censored with the vote. We have thought about tolerance, discrimination and the value of words. It is precisely in the wake of these arguments that I rise to point out and bring to the attention of this House another episode of verbal violence affecting it. In Piedmont, the Region from which I come, there is a strong debate about public works of great importance, and this is well known. Among these, the activation of the Turin incinerator. The debate about health risks is on, so much so that the prosecutor has opened an investigation into the risk of pollution. The debate is necessary and must be supported and, of course, facilitated. But a week ago, the day after the ignition of the same, the regional councillor Davide Bono, elected on the lists of the 5 Star Movement in the Regional Council, wrote on his web page a message against the plant, the designer and the politicians who supported its creation. Councillor Bono said that the engineer of the construction site will carry to the grave the responsibility for the poisoning of the Turinese, and hoped that the first to suffer the consequences will be his children, like the sons and grandchildren of Foietta, Fassino and Bresso and that at least their genes will be extinct. A violent and gratuitous statement compared to people who have no responsibility for the work under discussion. The Piedmont Regional Council condemned and censored the verbal violence expressed by Councillor Bono, and today I want to do so here too: in fact, I want to express on behalf of myself and my Group - and I hope of the Senate all - solidarity with my colleague, Senator Magda Zanoni, who saw in these statements a violent, cruel and unjustified attack and, I think, worrying, since in addition to being our colleague she is also a mother. In fact, these words attack his son, Enrico Foietta. It has been the subject of debate in this House today, and I hope that we can all together stem this drift from the use of written or said words which I consider to be serious and dangerous. I thank Senator Giannini for the reference to Gramsci's thought. The vulgar and violent use of words, and without the evaluation of the repercussions on people, must offend and worry us, and it is not a positive sign for a country that I would like to think cradle of culture, free, modern, but above all democratic. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u70	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-72.ana.u71	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday, July 19, at 8.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7 p.m.
