ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 3 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] The Senate commemorates Nelson Mandela, who passed away last December 5 at the age of 95. Father of the fight against racial segregation in South Africa, Nobel Peace Prize winner in 1993 and first President of South Africa after the end of apartheid, Mandela left office in 1999, continuing with equal determination, coherence and enthusiasm, his commitment and his action in support of civil and social rights organisations. The protagonist of thoughts and projects that have changed the history of his country and the whole world, of ideals and testimonies that have revitalized, provoked and transformed the conscience of people, was the creator of a reconciliation of which he, in the first person, gave a shining example when, coming out of prison after twenty-seven years, he uttered the famous words "No grudge," taking his people by the hand, which was as kept in his hands. He walked with the women and men of our time towards peace and social justice, rejecting feelings of violent vindication and hatred, preserving the value of friendship and unity as a lever for the ransom and restart of the last, forgotten and abandoned. The whole of humanity, and not only South Africa, feels the void left by a great man, an example of rare humility, integral freedom and dignity, and at the same time of extraordinary, inexhaustible moral strength. His figure entered each of us with the delicacy, almost tenderness, of his smile and the indomitable strength of those who, as the poetry he most loved recited, is "master of his destiny, captain of his own soul." In his memory, I invite you to observe a minute of silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u7	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we too cannot and do not want to silence the sentiments of emotion that have pervaded us at the news of the disappearance of Madiba, united with the great admiration for this giant of our contemporary history. At school, when we faced issues such as apartheid or non-violence, they echoed the names of Martin Luther King and Gandhi, but we knew from then on that there was a leader in South Africa in the fight against racism, Mandela, who was in prison because of his ideas and that after his liberation he would even become President of South Africa. Not only does he strike the strength of character, that stubborn soul that not even the bars of a prison suffered for twenty-seven long years have ever been able to break; it strikes not only the undefeated commitment to pursue equality between white and black or the belief that education and knowledge are indispensable tools for a man to be free: yes, of course all this, but what strikes me most of all in this man is to have understood and put into practice the liberating and liberating power of forgiveness. When he got out of prison, he could have succumbed to the temptation to carry out revenge, reprisals, retaliation against the white minority, risking to plunge South Africa into a rift that could no longer be healed. Instead, he chose another path, that of pacification; he chose another horizon, that of cohabitation freed from fear; he chose another style, that of forgiveness. Road, horizon and style that have made Mandela the giant that is and that in troubled and conflicting times like ours, especially at our latitudes, interrogates us and inspires us to recover a more just and human way of acting. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u10	NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we remember one of the symbol figures of the twentieth century. For men like Nelson Mandela the twentieth century was a very long century, a century that penetrated the next one and led him, as had happened before him to some great figures who wrote modern and contemporary history, to make the government represent the struggles that had seen him as a boy and then very young in his country and outside the borders of South Africa. In this Chamber some years ago he spent extraordinary words for him a senator for life, Luzi (named by the then president of the Republic Carlo Azeglio Ciampi), when he spoke of freedom. If there is a person who has been able to educate and self-educate himself to freedom, it was precisely Mandela. Luzi in this House recalled that freedom is a gym in which you had to enter every day, otherwise you risk drying up. Mandela transferred this teaching into prison, where she served a life sentence, because twenty-seven years of life inside a prison are a life sentence for a person, and out of prison, with an extraordinary campaign on individual rights. The last lesson he has left to each of us is that we must fight for rights: they do not come unless we fight. This is the last legacy of his life to each of us. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we honour a man who was not only the father of modern South Africa and a guide for his people, but a beacon for all of us, a symbol of redemption for all the oppressed in the world. For my generation Nelson Mandela was the prisoner of Robben Island, the man who remained in prison for twenty-seven years refusing release, when he was offered, because he knew that accepting that agreement, publicly giving up the fight, would have meant signing an act of surrender in the face of racism, injustice and oppression. I still remember with emotion and emotion when in 1990 - a year that seems so far away - Nelson Mandela, a citizen of Rome, came to withdraw the honorary citizenship of our capital. Nelson Mandela was one of the few great men who touched the fate of being a lighthouse and a symbol twice: first as a fighter for the freedom of his people, then as a man of state decided, with the same determination, to overcome the lacerations of the past to give back to all the South Africans, black and white, peace. He taught us that with the oppressors one cannot come to terms. They must be defeated; they must be beaten, politically and culturally. He also taught us that on this basis, when it is clear on which side the reason lies and on which the wrong, when the injustice was beaten, one must know how to go forward, without forgetting but also without allowing the ghosts of the past to devour the present. From Nelson Mandela, Madiba, we have learned that when peace means ambiguity and surrender we must be able to reject it, but when it means clear reconciliation on a new and more just basis, we must actively seek and implement it. We are also grateful to Nelson Mandela for this, as for so many other teachings. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u16	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, Nelson Mandela was a great man of this century; probably one of the greatest, a symbol of the struggle for human rights, a historical leader of the South African anti-apartheid movement. He lived twenty-seven years in prison, until, in 1994, he became President of the country that had locked him up and deprived him of his freedom for so long. In 1993, he was also awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. Mandela was a symbol of the struggle of black Africa against white domination in the continent; a man who grew up in the ruthless apartheid regime that oppressed South Africa from 1948 to 1994; a leader who spent almost a third of his life in prison, but came out of it like a black Gandhi, who with his message of forgiveness and reconciliation managed to keep his country from falling into a dreaded abyss of vengeance and blood. The old comrades of the African National Congress recalled this: a colossus, an example of humility, equality, justice, peace and hope for millions of men and women. Although he spent 27 years in prison, Mandela forgave and taught to forgive. Pope Francis spoke of Mandela's example with these words: "Tributando homage to the firm determination shown by Nelson Mandela in promoting the dignity of all the citizens of the nation and in forging a new South Africa, built on the solid foundations of non-violence, reconciliation and truth, I pray because the example of the deceased President inspires generations of South Africans in putting justice and the common good in the first place of their aspirations..." On behalf of the Lega Nord and Autonomous Group, therefore, I express a deep feeling of condolence for the disappearance of President Mandela, symbol of the struggle for human rights, as well as the participation, close to feelings, in the mourning of all the South African people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u19	Olivero (PI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Nelson Mandela has marked an entire generation in depth. We all in this House - even the youngest - remember his civil battles, his determination and his wisdom. We remember him again in South African prisons and we also remember his victories, passion and deep human and spiritual serenity. The 1988 concert in Paris was undoubtedly the first political demonstration in which I participated and Mandela the first peace leader I looked at, like hundreds of millions of young people in these decades. A symbol, a leader who didn't betray. It has achieved its objective - the abolition of apartheid, the birth of new South Africa - and yet it has not been satisfied. He wanted South Africa to be a cohesive, reconciled country in peace. He wanted a commission for truth and reconciliation, knowing that there is no authentic reconciliation without truth, and he wanted to commit himself to giving identity and cohesion to a poor, angry and divided country. I believe that this lesson, the whole lesson that Mandela gave us in his life, is important to us today, even at this difficult time for humanity. We remember him not only as a leader, as a great leader, but as an example for his people and, I would like to say, for all the citizens of the world. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u20	Colleagues, we extend our greetings to the students of the Istituto comprensivo - Brothers Trillini - of Osimo, in the province of Ancona, who are following our works from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u23	Comrade (NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not often, indeed almost never, that a true revolutionary can also become a true man of state, to all intents and purposes. That's how Nelson Mandela happened. He entered prison twenty-seven years ago - Mr Nencini remembered life imprisonment or very little less - and during that period Mandela accumulated different ideas, original, for which he needed white interlocutors of democratic sentiments that hated as much as he hated apartheid. From this point of view, someone in these days has recalled the figure of his interlocutor de Klerk. When Mandela came out of prison, he surprised those who expected that he would come out with a grudge to resume an endless revolutionary struggle: this happened in a different context in the relationship between Khomeini, who came from Paris, and Iran, the country in which he arrived. Mandela, on the other hand, rejected the grudge, as I think Mr Mauro said, taking this step from you, President Grasso: No grudges. The alliance with the enlightened whites had made Mandela cultivate a culture without resentment, alien to any spirit of vengeance, and this involved extraordinary personal courage for him. Around 2010 someone said Mandela was no longer the same, who was proving too remiss with the old masters. Even one of the ex-wives in 2010 said: He's abandoned us. He entered prison as a revolutionary, came out changed. The lady had understood absolutely nothing: Mandela's greatness was precisely in rejecting grudges, and from this point of view in the history of the modern world it is not exaggerated for us Western democrats to see him united, on the same throne, with the great Abraham Lincoln, united by the same passion of democratic civilization. [[Applause from the NCD and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u26	BIGNAMI (M5S). Mr President, Senators, it is with immense honour that we are commemorating in this House a hero of humanity who joins the Olympics of those who have sacrificed their lives so that equality of men is rightly recognised in a country tormented by racial discrimination. We should all put ourselves in heartfelt silence and in secular and religious prayer for greeting a man who has proved so important and so exemplary for all humanity, thanking whatever God exists, as it is written in Henley's poem, so loved and often recited in prison. But from the silence, from the depths of the night that surrounded him, black as a well from one pole to another, came the decisive and fundamental trait of his life, which from the deepest isolation shouted equality for twenty-seven years, until reaching the goal. It is not the words, albeit very high and valuable, that have determined their greatness: they are the facts. The facts are born from actions and actions are born from the will, dreams and thoughts that, even if locked up in a prison, can become reality, because dreams are not relegatable. But the society of differences is not dead: it is just outside the door of the house, beyond our lawn, in the neighbor, in the classroom with our son, at a traffic light with a stretched hand or inside a shed to sew clothes. Many forms of racism and homophobia shake our society, fueled by the fear of different and what we do not understand; to combat this, we need the rejection of omission and indifference, the biggest evils that affect our society. It is necessary to overcome the selfishness and hypocrisy that pervade it. The Government, for its part, strong in Article 3 of our Constitution, must guarantee other noble equalitys, those of labour and income, fighting the new apartheid of discriminatory work and the inequality of income. [[Applause from Senator Anitori]] But reality is also globalization, a word born to describe approach but transformed into a spirit of global exploitation and amplification of inequalities. Inequality is the cause and consequence of the failure of the political system, which increases the economic imbalance and, like a dog biting its tail, leads to its continued growth. This is the struggle of the new Madibas, those who call for humanitarian globalization, closed in prisons of the new economic ideologies proposed by that 1% that holds 40% of the world's wealth and that wants to convince us that another alternative world is not possible. This is the new apartheid. I invite you, my senators, to return, as Henley's poetry recites, masters of our destiny and captains of our soul, and not to surrender to the logic of power, not to bow the head in front of the superiors, but to work for those who need, for those who are different. I invite you to work, just as Mandela did, no matter how narrow the passage is; a hero above his own life and affections, a hero who at last returned to the silence of humanity, who never abandoned, as a true man. The threat of the years is defeated. His invincible soul has now won. I invite you to work for the people all, and not for the crazy sun. It is time to build and we from all this, as Mandela asked, will not back down. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u29	REPETTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will say a few words, not only because of the shortness of time available, but because it really takes a few words to remind a man, Nelson Mandela, who, even with the silence of almost thirty years behind bars, has managed to change the world. You see, colleagues, at the university I chose to study African-American literature: I also say this with pride, because those studies marked my life deeply. In particular, it marked the reading and analysis of a book by Ralph Waldo Ellison, whose title is "Invisible Man": a book that deals with the tragedy of black men and women, not only from the point of view of equality, because the real tragedy was the denial of their identity and their very existence. They were merely invisible men and women: invisible to the blindness of ignorance. Nelson Mandela has fought his whole life, for thirty years even in the silence of a cell, not only for the freedom of his South Africa, not only to restore that identity and existence to so many men and women denied for racial reasons or other. Nelson Mandela also fought to improve our identity and our existence. That's why today we are all here (even if, I'm sorry, a little distracted) to remember "Madiba" (so he wanted to be called and so I want to greet him): because each of us - everyone, just everyone - in every part of the world, we owe him a little 'of our freedom and that little of positive that we are today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u32	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, my fellow Members have already made some important points. I too, on more than one occasion, wondered how much better I could interpret such an extraordinary and complex personality as Nelson Mandela's. Well, in the first place, a planetary leader, because of the values he interprets and acts: universalistic values translated into an ideal and political battle, then into constitutional principles capable of being at the origin of overcoming a historical fracture, a racial barrier, made of oppression and violence; a planetary leader like Martin Luther King or like Mahatma Gandhi. The end of apartheid, the return of dignity, the conquest of rights that cannot be alienated, thanks to him, arouse passions, enthusiasm, moral tensions, a sequel that becomes an unstoppable river, the protagonism of an entire people. Mandela is invictus, master of her own destiny, captain of her soul, as in Clint Eastwood's beautiful movie. Secondly, I recall the assumption of the responsibility of government as the fulfilment of a mission and then Madiba as an emblem, as the incarnation of the spirit of a people, transcending the temporal and historical data and the same institutional responsibility, when Mandela does not run for a new mandate, as if to witness a sort of detachment from the desires and the appealing spirit of power. And again, the Commission for Truth and Reconciliation, the truth that, as it is written, makes free: not only an instrument of justice that encompasses reparation and forgiveness, but as an expression of a rediscovered possibility of peaceful coexistence, as a factor of State-building, as an opportunity for national peace and removal of factors at the origin of tearing divisions. Finally, Mandela as a charismatic dimension of the prophecy of peace, which foreshadows a world reconciled in the shared experience of a destiny to be shared in human existence. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u33	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1174, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Chiavaroli, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u34	Mr President, this is the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 120 of 15 October 2013 on urgent financial measures to rebalance public finance and on immigration, approved at first reading by the House of Deputies. Article 1 of the decree-law under consideration, with provisions on immigration, increases the fund for the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors for 20 million euros for the year 2013 and establishes an immigration fund for the year 2013 equal to 190 million, to be distributed, according to the changes made by the House, also taking into account the reception needs of women immigrants in pregnancy and those of the municipalities most exposed to the influx of foreigners; on the use of the aforementioned fund is expected the presentation of a report to the Parliament by 31 March 2014. The sums of funds not used in the current year may be used in the following year. The financial coverage is found to be based on the return fund, the INPS revenue resulting from the regularisation of immigrants and the reduction of the rotation fund for solidarity with the victims of mafia crimes, extortive requests and usury. Funds intended for the adaptation of identification and expulsion centres shall be excluded from any acts of enforcement. Paragraph 4 -ter, inserted by the Chamber, concerns the financing of the National Institute for the promotion of the health of migrant populations and the fight against poverty diseases. Article 2 lays down provisions on the financing of local and regional authorities. In paragraph 1 it provides for the year 2013 an integration of the share due to each municipality of the municipal solidarity fund, for a total amount of 125 million euros. The corresponding resources allocated to each municipality are not considered to be among the final revenue relevant for the purposes of the Internal Stability Pact for 2013. Paragraph 3 provides for the financial coverage of the charges, amounting to 125 million for the year 2013, in terms of net balance to be financed. Paragraph 4 calculates in one million, from 2014, the costs in terms of lower interest income, to which is provided by means of a corresponding reduction of the Fund for structural measures of economic policy. Paragraph 4-a, introduced to the Chamber, contains a news article 6 -bis of Decree-Law No 43 of 2013, derogating from the Internal Stability Pact for the year 2013 in relation to the funds allocated for the reconstruction and restoration of damage caused by the 2002 earthquake in Molise, for a total amount of 15 million. The paragraph 4-b of the same article 2, inserted by the Chamber, assigns for the year 2013 to the local authorities, to further supplement what is already attributed to them pursuant to paragraph 1 with the increase of the municipal solidarity fund, part of the resources deriving from the rights of secretariat paid by Municipalities and Provinces and the reimbursements due by Municipalities and Provinces for the employment of the secretaries for additions and regencies and made available by reassignment, provided that they are not necessary in the year 2013 for the management of the register of municipal and provincial secretaries; it also allocates the resources deriving from the minor occurrences of expenditure related to the management of the same register. Paragraph 4-c, inserted by the House, authorizes the Minister of Economy and Finance to make the necessary budgetary changes. Paragraph 4-d, introduced by the Chamber, provides that the amount received by a territorial entity as an early termination of a derivative, corresponding to the positive market value that the instrument presents at the time of extinction, may be allocated to the reduction of the financial charges or to the termination of the institution's debt. Paragraph 5 of Article 2, with some amendments to Article 31 of the Stability Act 2012, relating to the discipline of the Internal Stability Pact for local authorities, tightens for the year 2013 the constraints of the Internal Stability Pact by increasing the financial contribution required under the Pact to each institution and by suspending the application of the system of virtuosity for the purposes of the allocation of the financial objectives of the Pact among the institutions themselves. Paragraph 6 allows, in the presence of certain financial conditions, the regions subject to the recovery plans from the health deficit to avoid the maximization of the rates of the IRAP and the regional addition to the IRPEF, or to allocate its income to certain extrasanitary purposes. Paragraph 7, amended during the examination at the Chamber, contains amendments and additions to Decree-Law No 35 of 2013, concerning the payment of debts due by the public administration, in order to: a) define the timing within which to proceed to the allocation of the entire amount, for 2014, of the resources of the non-health debt section of Regions and Autonomous Provinces; (b) clarify that off-balance-sheet debt payments are also allowed for the allocation of advances, from the additional financial resources allocated to the advance fund, from the resources for 2014 of the non-health debt section of Regions and Autonomous Provinces and from the resources already allocated among the Regions for the same debts as mentioned above but not yet paid; (c) to introduce the forecast that, when the Region terminates the debts listed in the payment plan to local authorities or other public administrations, each local authority or public administration concerned shall immediately terminate its debts. Paragraph 8 of Article 2 introduces a non-textual amendment to Article 14, paragraph 2, of Decree-Law No 102 of 2013, by which the terms provided for in it are corrected for the purposes of the application of the institution of the so-called simplified definition in the judgments of administrative and accounting responsibility that precisely this last provision has extended beyond the original forecasts. Paragraph 8-a of Article 2, inserted by the Chamber, authorizes the Ministry of the Interior not to proceed to financial allocations in favour of individual local authorities or to recover or deductions of resources charged to individual local authorities in case the total sum is less than 12 euros. Article 2-a, which has the right to withdraw public administrations from leases, introduced by the House, allows the government, the regions, local authorities and constitutional bodies to withdraw by 31 December 2014 from the leases of properties in progress on the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree-law in question. Article 3 of the Financial Regulation sets out the provisions to allow for a return from the deviation from the general government net debt reduction targets in 2013 to the limit of 3% of GDP defined at European level. On this point, it should be recalled that the 2013 DEF Update Note submitted to the Chambers on 23 September 2013 estimated a net trend debt level of 3.1 per cent for 2013. This value, which is more negative than estimated in April in the 2013 DEF, is to be compared to the decreasing trend in revenue, in particular from indirect taxes, which are particularly reactive to the trend in the economic cycle. According to the policy framework set out in the above-mentioned Note, in 2013 the general government net debt is positioned at 3% of GDP, thus incorporating a correction of 0.1 percentage points of GDP compared to the resulting figure in current legislation. To this end, paragraph 1 of the article in question provides that the availability of competence and cash related to the expenditure missions of the State budget of each Ministry, as indicated in table B annexed to the decree-law, are set aside and made unavailable, in order to ensure overall an improvement of the net debt of public administrations to the extent of 595 million of 2013. The budget appropriations relating to the estimates of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, to the estimates of the Ministry of Education, University and Research, to the research and innovation mission, to the Fund for Development and Cohesion, to the realization of the works and activities related to the conduct of the great Expo Milano 2015 event remain excluded from the provisions. To the compensation of these financial effects in terms of needs and net debt provides in part the following paragraph 4 through the use of 249 million in 2014 of the fund for the compensation of the financial effects not previewed to current legislation, consequent to the implementation of multi-annual contributions. For all the expenditure chapters concerned by the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 3 there is the suspension for the year 2013 of the possibility to arrange compensatory changes of single cash provided for in article 6, paragraph 14, of Decree-Law No 95 of 2012. Paragraph 5, finally, states that the amounts entered in the remaining account for the year 2013 on the fund for the protection of the environment and the promotion of the development of the territory (the so-called fund thousand works) are paid for the amount of 45 million at the entry of the State budget for the same year. A fruitful debate has taken place on this decree in the Budget Committee. Unfortunately, however, the time when the decree comes to the House after the budgetary session does not allow us to deal with the worthy issues raised in the Commission. I would particularly like to highlight one of these issues, which relates to Article 2-a introduced by the House. This article provides for the option of withdrawal of public administrations from leases. Well, we refer the discussion of this article to the next decree in conversion, the one on local authorities, because to provide that the public administration can withdraw at any time from the leases in progress affects not only the contracts already concluded, but also another of the measures that are planned for the rebalancing of our accounts, the real estate disposals. In fact, if the public administration is not considered by the possible buyers of these properties in disposal a reliable interlocutor for the leases, we would risk to compromise also the plan of the disposals. Therefore, since the subject has been judged to be of absolute interest and of absolute importance, in the opinion on the amendments I will call for the withdrawal of the amendments relating to Article 2-a so that the debate can be re-examined in the context of the conversion of the next decree. I propose this because the provisions contained in this decree, which concern the other three articles, are all important and urgent: both those relating to immigration and those relating to local authorities, and above all the financial provisions which secure our accounts against the European parameters. It therefore announces that the opinion on all the amendments will be negative with the call for the withdrawal of those relating to Article 2-a.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u35	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the measure technically known as Decree-Law No 120, but which we all know well by the name of maneuver. Which is a good thing, because it could have been a maneuver, but something good is there. The text provides for certain provisions which have the sole purpose of bringing Italy back into the parameters dictated by the European Union with the containment of the deficit-GDP ratio within the long-awaited 3%. Mr President, we must admit that Mr Saccomanni spoke about this, because at the end of September he anticipated the intention to correct the famous parameter for 0.1 percentage points of GDP (which is worth about 1.6 billion). How the resources have been found is the subject of our dispute, and here - as they say, President - the donkey falls. The resources have been found with the umpteenth cuts to local authorities, with a narrowing on the constraints of the Internal Stability Pact of the Municipalities and with restrictions that mean more than 400 million new limits of spending imposed on local authorities, as well as resources found with the disposals. It is the right time, Mr President, for real estate to be released and for sale! The negative effects of the implementation of the Stability Pact are known to all: a fall in investment, a decrease in growth, a decrease in the cast of local administrations. I wonder if this seems like an intelligent operation to you, if this handler was something to do. In order to reduce the deficit-to-GDP ratio, further tighten the constraints of the Stability Pact, which is the main cause of the decrease in GDP, resulting in a deterioration of the deficit-to-GDP ratio itself. Waiting to understand from some of your luminaries the meaning of this far-sighted strategy, we point out that in the measure are allocated 190 million for overcoming the emergency management of immigration started in 2011. So, let us ask a question, let us also ask ourselves why we have not quite understood: is it possible that the Internal Stability Pact and the provision on immigration are analysed in the same measure? It is a question that we asked ourselves, but the answer was simple: it is your methodology, the one that is most congenial to you, given the precedents, like the famous couple between IMU and occupation, already staged on these benches in a recent decree. This precedent foreshadowed nothing good. Can you explain to us what local finance has to do with, among other things, your shock taxes, with the immigrant fund? This is a question that has not been answered. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Confindustria Squinzi has launched yet another cry that is not even more of alarm, but is a cry of pure and clear pain. It denounces the risk of industrial desertification, the enormous environmental problems and the dramatic situation of cultural heritage. From these benches had already emerged a great controversy, regarding the issue of money that was given to Pompeii. A cry that we too have repeatedly launched, like the Lega Nord Group and Autonomies. Mr President, let us give entrepreneurs the opportunity to recite on the stage of the economy the role of protagonists who have always distinguished them in the past years; a protagonism that they can play to the full only if we are able to place them in the best conditions to operate on national and international markets. This will be possible, of course, if we give them simple tools, certain rules, little bureaucracy and energy at an increasingly low cost. Another big problem is the banks. By the way, we read in the newspapers these days that the money is there, they have it, the liquidity is there, but that it would even be private individuals and companies that would not request it. If that were true, Mr President, it would really be the death of the economy, of free entrepreneurship, of trade and of crafts; in short, Mr President, of all the economic fabric that concerns small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those with family entrepreneurship, which have enabled this country to emerge brilliantly from forty years of war. Then there is this Europe, Mr President: 27 countries that meet and sometimes clash with different interests, different objectives, different prerogatives and different peculiarities. The only thing they have in common is a euro which, from what I understand, is not good for everyone. This is the Europe that imposes rigour and calls for stability. This is the Europe that, with its vice president Olli Rehn, looks more at decimal points than at the management of the real economy of the various countries. Mr President, I would like to remind the Vice President of the European Commission and Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs that Martin lost the hood for a 0.1% of GDP by one point and is further strangling a country with a thousand difficulties. But let us return to the question of the 190 million fund. Of this fund nothing or little is known: to whom will this money be paid, for what activities and with what objectives? What checks will there be, and who will be the subjects who will monitor the actual use of the funds? Without considering that, out of 190 million, as many as 95 (i.e. 50 percent) will constitute a burden for the staff; but it is not given to know by what contract the staff will be hired, how it will be chosen, for how long, and probably not even to do what. While you find money for immigrants, the country sinks, between companies that close and young people who run away abroad without work. Since the Italian Government then gives money to non-Italian citizens arriving in this country, we hope that other states will do the same when our people go abroad to look for work. This is your arrangement, which we do not accept and which we are absolutely opposed to, also because, as you well know, it is absolutely useless. Once you've run out of fund resources, what's gonna happen? However, Mr President, according to the technical report attached to the text, part of this fund will be financially covered by a reduction in resources for victims of mafia crimes. A gem, Mr President, a great manifestation of respect for families affected by Mafia crimes. Mr President, it seems to me that this Government is acting like the little Zacchaeus in the Gospel according to Luke. It almost seems, Mr President, that you too have gone up to sycamore, to see the recovery, the light, that longed for light at the end of the tunnel, like fatalist illusions. But with these attitudes, Mr President, the North is saying to you: Get down, I was coming to you, stop being naughty, give the malt back to those whom you have taken away and you will save yourself. And the North will be very grateful to you, Mr President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u37	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u38	Mr President, in this path between maneuvers and maneuvers we have first of all observed that it was only in Italy that the law of stability (then the maneuver) could be passed on to the Senate and the correction in Montecitorio, because suddenly the Government realized that it lacked 1 billion and 600 million euros to return to the famous deficit-GDP ratio. The Commission therefore implements all its sci-fi art of postponement: it decides to tighten the Stability Pact in the last few days of the year, asking local authorities to save money when commitments have actually been made, which is why they are being postponed. Similarly, in Article 3, it is stipulated that the availability of powers and cash relating to the expenditure of the State budget shall be set aside and made unavailable for each Ministry and so on. Paragraph 2 provides that the shares of resources earmarked for current expenditure shall constitute a budgetary economy at the end of the financial year. The Government forgets that for some categories of current expenditure the effects are recorded according to the cash criterion, therefore at a stage after the commitment, with the consequence that the effects tend to be distributed in the next financial years. In the case of capital expenditure, the possibility of keeping unused assets on the balance sheet at the end of 2013 will result in a corresponding negative effect on public finance balances in 2014. Let's go again. Then came the beautiful action to dispose of the public heritage to be carried out within the year, so in a few days, as Europe demands. And what do we do? You return to plunder the savings of the Italians and enter again in the field the Cash deposits and loans that, with the game of the three cards, will buy these properties of which we know nothing. Everything happens while the authoritative members of the Government and Prime Minister Letta themselves declare triumphant that these maneuvers and maneuvers go countertrend, because at last you look at families, businesses and those who need it. Well, we should do a little excursus. In 2000, total public revenue amounted to 536 billion; in 2012 this amount splashed to 764 billion, an increase of 228 billion. Over the same period, public expenditure rose from 536 billion to 806 billion, an increase of 274 billion, which is higher than revenue. This means that interest expenditure on public debt jumped to more than 81 billion in 2012, a figure that tends to increase and reach 100 billion euros in the future. In 2012 a large part of the state budget, namely 295 billion, therefore 39.5%, was committed to repay the public debt and to pay interest on it. Thus, 39.5% of the state budget is concerned not with families, businesses and people in need, but with the management of public debt. From 2001 to today every government that has succumbed has always said that it has not increased the tax pressure. Clearly, this is not the case, and the data is not secret but official. They are there, on the website of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and tell us that the 228 billion taxes that have been increasing since 2000 to date are to be attributed to the Berlusconi-Tremonti Government (the one of the tax sentinels) in the period 2001-2006 and 2008-2011, with an average of 20 billion more taxes per year. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; 52 billion are to be attributed to the Prodi-Padoa-Schioppa Government, in the period 2006-2008 (I want to remember, now that PD is going to lower taxes), with an annual average of 26 billion euros; for 20 billion euros in the year of Monti Government alone. So, these 228 billion higher taxes, which have bled out our country and shut down many companies, have reduced many families on the pavement (in fact, while before they didn't know how to get to the end of the month, now they don't even know how to start it), are due to all of you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is now appropriate to say that this beautiful Government of broad understanding continues to be the Government of the great taxes for the Italians. In this financial maneuver, separately, in terms of net balance to be financed, the net change in revenue (it is talking about the difference between the largest and the least revenues) for the next three years is 32.4 billion and, in terms of net balance to be financed, the net change in expenditure is 14.2 billion; this is not exactly a countertrend, indeed it is to proceed in the usual sad path. Reading the content of the law of stability, it is evident, among other things, that expenditure is certain and the great part of the random revenue, because - as I said - it is only postponed; but to postpone it is well covered, because, while not foreseeing the large cuts (these dear 32 billion cannot be expected in the law of stability and in the maneuver), not only these 32 billion are expected in the next three years, but there are 20 more in the now famous safeguard clause. The government should well explain to the Italian citizens what will wait for them in the next three years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u39	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u40	Mr President, many of the remarks made just now give the sense of this measure, which could easily have been absorbed into the same financial maneuver that is being discussed and approved by the House of Deputies and which I think will return to the Senate for the final vote. I remind all of us, being one of the things with which this legislature was inaugurated, that it was said: "A epochal effort has been made, we are changing things" when the Decree-Law of 8 April 2013, No. 35, concerning the commercial debts of public administrations was adopted. Why do I start from this rather than from the phenomenon, certainly aggravated, of the conditions of total disaster in which the entire Mediterranean basin lies, not because of the lack of responsibility of the European Union itself, which looks to the East rather than to the South, and in this it makes a decisive choice also of foreign policy and economic policy, putting our country - but not only our country - in a condition of greater discomfort, rather than helping it to emerge from a very heavy economic and social crisis? I would like to refer to Decree-Law No 35 because in this document there is a denial of what we said at the beginning of the parliamentary term and that we have defined it as a way of changing the relationship between the State and the citizen, for example by beginning to assume as a mandatory duty that of paying the debts we have to the citizens. We have set up a fund of several billion euros for 2013 and 2014, imposing the payment within the first six months of 2014 of all commercial debts of general government accrued at 31 December 2012. However, in this measure there are already rules that make it clear that this objective will not be achieved. There is another aspect, which concerns the way in which Parliament is informed of the progress of the implementation of measures essential to the country's economy. We do not know how much public debt amounts to. The measure still talks about a census of off-balance-sheet debts. We have set up a computerized platform through which all the institutions would have to manifest themselves with the weight of their commercial debts towards the business system. What did that platform tell us? That we still today, while approving the financial maneuver of the next financial year, do not have the confidence of how many debts have been accrued already for a year, indeed already for eleven months, and those matured in the years before the expiration previewed from decree-law n. 35 of 2013, then converted from the law 6 June 2013, n. 64. We added financial resources because they were considered insufficient. We saw the ballet of numbers. We started from the 60 billion that were estimated by the government, to move to the 90 estimated by Bankitalia and to the more than 100 estimated by the business system. Mr Saccomanni spoke to us in the debate on the financial maneuver of 13.5 billion and 6.5 billion to public administrations to pay for companies. But we don't know anything about how far we've come to the business system. I say this because, in the meantime, piece by piece - and it is in the philosophy of doing one thing and then repenting and making another - they are eroding the financial envelope allocated for that purpose: 75 million we have put them for opera theatres; 35 million are recovered here for other types of purposes. We never know the truth about the accounts. And if we do not know that we are the representatives of the people and also the holders of the function of approval of the budget maneuver, let alone the citizens know. What must we do and to whom must we turn to know the truth? The support measures we are proposing are also watering down on all sides. For example, the measure deals with immigration. First, Mr President, everyone stood up to praise Mandela. But if Mandela had been an Italian citizen and had little lived the age of rejections he would have been indignant and would have waged significant political and social battles to say that it is not okay. [[Applause from Senator Caleo]] Here we are still supporting the old immigration management policy, intervening with charity and preventing foreclosure of the centers of shame with which we censor, as if they were unworthy people, all those who arrive in our country in search of hospitality. It doesn't change anything. We have the hope - every time we hear it say - that something can change. What is needed to intervene on the real reason for an absolutely inadequate immigration policy? What does it take to delete the so-called Bossi-Fini law? We need to rethink a different reasoning on the issues of reception, or on the issues of social support for the weakest groups in our country, which are swelling in an intolerable way. We need a political will, but we do not find it. We must overcome a distraction from the real problems which we do not see. We need everyone's attention (I first spoke about businesses, but then I went to immigrants), because for everyone there is the same medicine. There is almost total inattention. There is a policy that looks towards itself. In fact, we are only talking about the electoral law, that is, the way in which we still have to propose to the citizen to elect Parliament. I wonder, however, to do what: to do something different and better. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Bencini and Marton]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are beginning to look at a truly incredible measure as a whole, which follows on from what was not to be done and which the Government itself undertook not to do. This is yet another measure in which everything is mixed up. I would remind you that my first speech in the Senate Chamber was on the closure of psychiatric hospitals and stem cells. On that occasion, it was stated that the extraneousness of matter was evident and that never again should measures thus mixed and uneven be examined. Well, it still happens, and it doesn't happen by chance, but for the simple reason that there is total confusion within the Government. I would ask who is the alchemist, the Cagliostro who kneads these norms, who continues to present a law with a name, including other provisions. It must be clear to the Commission that those who do these things do not do the good of the government itself and of the country, because they mock citizens by telling them that immigration has the same priority as public funding, that the IMU has the same priority as social shock absorbers, while each of these elements needs to be treated on its own. This is the debate that comes to be mixed and confused in the Senate. So, we are going to look at measures relating to immigration, neglecting the fact that, for example, we are talking superficially about growth. It makes me laugh thinking of Minister Saccomanni who, once again, wants us to believe that the country is coming out of the recession. Anyone who walks on the sidewalks, on the streets and in the squares, anyone who goes to check what is going on in the country these days, realizes that we are in the darkest recession. With this scathing measure, which brings one thing together, we certainly cannot provide an answer to what the country expects, that is, concreteness. We know that, for the same period, the United States is expected to grow by 3.5%, when Italy is expected to stagnate to 0 percent. Some people, moreover, rejoice that the fact that we are able to curb the fall of the economy is already a result. Well, let us be serious: the country does not need brakes, but it needs accelerators, starting with small and medium-sized enterprises, which are not financed by a banking system that now only responds to its own interests. And here I pose a challenge to the Government, to which I ask what interests support it: those of finance, those of banks, those of Bilderberg, those of the Europe of financiers, or rather the interest of citizens in having a job? I remind you that you swore on the Constitution, according to which our country is not based on finance, but on work: that's where you have to start to rebuild and not from finance [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , not by banks or interest, therefore, but by circulating money, starting with citizens, so that they can then be spent, starting with public administrations. That's how you create economy in the country. Have we forgotten the great postwar lesson? It is from sacrifice and work that wealth is born and not from the finance or illusions of the nineties. This is the memory that is forgotten, especially by those who belong to the government, and we are frankly very sorry. But this is also what shows the seriousness of the Government. How can you present yourself in Europe, suggesting that you have made an economic maneuver that is up to it, when you chase it all down with a'manovrine'? We needed a corrective, why didn't we do things ad hoc, perfect from the start? Simple, because now the system provides that work is only on urgency, only on decrees, preventing any development and confrontation with civil society. And so you make decrees, presented norms such as those contained in the law of stability, waiting for the panic to take possession of the country, seeing what comes from it and presenting any amendments and even a corrective "manovrine." I wonder if this is serious. I ask you if this is serious. Does this government know how to enforce the interests of the country, or is it Germany's doormat? In fact, once again, this maneuver reflects interests that do not correspond to those of the country, but to those of a finance in which Germany and the Europe of Germany make the difference, in which others decide the agenda of the work. So go to Europe, but be truly credible and do not take action by mixing immigration with the finances of public bodies. At this point, frankly, I have a fundamental doubt. Why did you remove resources from important funds like the one in support of the victims of the mob? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] How come you didn't have the courage to remove the marchettes that you included in the stability law to finance this measure? What are the reasons for this? Perhaps they are those of demagogy or of giving an ad hoc answer, perhaps simply for the interests of a party election campaign? Then let me say (I know that I will raise some controversy, but I do not care: it is time to stop perbenism): you are protecting the interests of those who have signed up, in the name of the Democratic Party, hosts of immigrants and illegals simply to say that he had 3 million voters. (Applause from the LN-Aut Group) This is a shame to be exposed. In a serious country we are confronted with real problems, not party politics. So if we have to start again, we start from work - I repeat - and not from the mockery of citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] because, when you gave the Democratic Party card to an immigrant just to get him to vote, you didn't do a democratic act with respect for everyone. You have created the conditions for social blackmail, so tomorrow those immigrants will ask to be equal to the citizens who have paid taxes for years. What will be the result? An inability of the system to support the social burden of the country, with a clear evidence: there will be clashes in the squares for which you will be responsible, because you will have led to confront those in the country already struggling to arrive at the end of the month with large masses that are very determined will come not to assert their rights, but to take advantage of our rules of civil coexistence, which in their eyes are only weaknesses to be exploited. This is the shame that you must feel on your conscience. In conclusion, I also say to you that I am very perplexed, because in the Council of Ministers there are people for whom I have always had great admiration, and I say this as a former mayor. I feel ashamed for a minister like Delrio who smuggles for reform of local political authorities who do nothing but throw smoke in the eyes of the citizens, making believe that, by eliminating the Provinces and uniting the small municipalities, he saves himself. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] In reality it is on these things that one sees the seriousness of a government, and the government is throwing smoke into the eyes of the citizens. So, let me tell you that if you think you can write the country's political agenda today, you're wrong, because you're writing the headlines of a movie, in German, of which you're just partners, not even good at acting. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Martelli and Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Colucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 120, today before us, has a dual purpose. In fact, it must be linked to the bill of stability, which has already been adopted by this branch of Parliament and now before the House of Deputies, and it also brings immigration measures in the face of the increase in the influx of foreign citizens and the tragedies that have last occurred. As regards the first aspect, the measure under consideration is a manoeuvre, although important in view of the economic conditions of our country, aimed at responding to the need to close the current year by containing the budget deficit within the limit of 3% of GDP. The improvement of the balance is achieved through a tightening up of the Internal Stability Pact for local authorities, a reduction in the expenditure of the Ministries and a programme of real estate disposals. The specific arrangements for obtaining the resources necessary for this correction are the specific content of the measure under consideration, on which other measures have been taken. But, beyond that, it is perhaps worth pointing out that the measure is a response to the concerns expressed at European level about our public accounts, although it should be pointed out that similar concerns have not been expressed in the same place with regard to other European partners, who have not been asked, even if there are mismatches in the deficit-GDP ratio that are more significant than ours, to take corrective measures. After these general considerations, I would like to draw my attention to a provision which, in my view, conflicts with a plurality of constitutional principles. I refer to Article 2-a - to which the rapporteur referred - inserted during the examination of the draft law in the other branch of Parliament, aimed at providing, also for the purposes of achieving the objectives of reducing expenditure provided for by the measure, that the government, the regions and local authorities, as well as the constitutional bodies within the framework of their autonomy, may exercise, by 31 December 2014, the right of withdrawal from the rental contracts of buildings in progress. In the meantime, I would like to make a general point. The law already provides for a possibility of protection of the public administration's interest to withdraw as Law 392 of 1978 on the rules governing the rental of urban buildings provides, in Article 27, that regardless of the contractual forecasts, the holder may, on serious grounds, withdraw from the contract at any time with a notice of at least six months. On the concept of "serious reasons" a precise case-law of the Court of Cassation was formed which is capable of protecting the interest of public administrations to withdraw from passive leases. In addition, Decree-Law No 95 of 2012, concerning the spending review, has already provided for a series of further measures aimed at containing government expenditure on passive rentals. It is in fact expected that, for the years 2012, 2013 and 2014, the update relative to the variation of the ISTAT indices does not apply to the rents paid by the general government. It is also expected that the same fees will be reduced by 15% from 2015 onwards. Moreover, the same decree-law already provided for a provision that allowed the Regions and local authorities to withdraw from contracts by December 2013, even by way of derogation from the provisions of the contracts, this provision already contrary to the constitutional principles. Now the provision contained in Article 2-a of the measure under consideration renews this contrast - as I have already mentioned - with constitutional principles, first of all with the principle of equality enshrined in Article 3 of the Constitution: in fact, a significant difference of treatment between conductors is determined in relation to the public or private nature of the same. It contradicts Article 41 of the Constitution, which protects private economic initiative and from which, as is well known, the principle of contractual autonomy is derived in constitutional jurisprudence. The provision of Article 2-a infringes the principle of free private economic initiative and restricts, in a totally unjustified way, the free will of the parties consecrated in the contract between them. The principle of legitimate expectations, which, in the field of civil law as a development of the principle of good faith, has been recognised in the field of administrative law, is also adversely affected. The principle of legitimate expectations is peacefully applicable in the private relations of which the administration is a party. Moreover, even in the European legal system, in which this principle is considered to be a corollary to that of legal certainty, it is considered that the principle of legitimate expectations is of particular importance in the situations in which public administration is involved. On the other hand, in the area of administrative measures, Article 21-d of Law No 241 of 1990 is taken into account, which provides, in the event of the revocation of a measure involving prejudices to the detriment of the parties concerned, the obligation to provide compensation for them. There is therefore a general principle, which is also confirmed in this provision of Law No 241, so it is necessary for the public administration to take due account of the reasonable expectation generated in the administration of its acts and, therefore, also from positions consecrated in legal shops. In conclusion, the activation of such a wide option of withdrawal contrasts: with Article 3 of the Constitution, dictating a different non-justified discipline of lease relationships in relation to the public nature or not of the holder; with Article 41 of the Constitution, affecting in an unjustified way the private economic initiative, as well as the contractual autonomy that constitutes its explanation; with the principle of legitimate expectation, making the certainty of relations with the public administrations diminish. In addition to the aspects of conflict with the Constitution, there is also a question of how private individuals will want to enter into contracts with a public administration in the future when, on the basis of subsequent legal provisions introduced, it guarantees unjustified positions of advantage, such as the right of withdrawal, without any justification, provided for in Article 2-a of the measure under consideration. Colleagues, we are once again, as has been the case recently, faced with the problem of the irretroactivity of laws. I repeat my conviction once again that the laws can only provide for the future and, therefore, in this particular case, that a balance of interests enshrined in a negotiating agreement cannot subsequently be altered. Hence my total and clear opposition to Article 2-a of the draft law under consideration, which is the cause of numerous disputes even before the Constitutional Court, which will cause damage to the treasury. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u46	Mr President, a few minutes ago we were asked what the government's interests are. We answer: those of the banks. Now let's also go prove it, because we in the 5 Star Movement do homework, study and have answers. First of all, this is called "manovrine" as if it were a small, delicate thing that doesn't hurt. It is a part of a triptych that is the real financial maneuver, which comes basically from Brussels, that this government will carry on Â"a doormatÂ" and the majority will vote Â"a doormatÂ". The first step was the law of stability; then there is the measure under consideration today and finally, there will be Decree-Law No 133, concerning the IMU and the Bank of Italy. But you have to watch them all together. So let's get on with the work and see what the overall picture emerges from it. As has already been pointed out, at least 20 billion new taxes have been nested in the Stability Act: they are the safeguard clause. It is clear, in fact, that if Cottarelli, who is the Commissioner who will have to make the cuts, fails to formalize them or the Ministries will fail to follow him, tax breaks of EUR 20 billion will be made. If you cut tax breaks, it's like you put new taxes. It is therefore EUR 20 billion of new taxes. Of course this is always part of a strategy, which is that of the large and small brands within the various legislative proposals that you have presented. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have to name things. They are brands that always pay the citizen, so we call the citizen ATM, once and for all. You do the shopping and the citizen gets to the cashier, and the ATM always puts him: it is an ATM that always recharges and you never have to worry about. The citizen-bancomat, then, should be informed, as well as you who are going to approve these proposals, which we certainly will not approve. The second piece, as I said, is the maneuver. The third piece is Bankitalia: the famous revaluation of the shares of Bankitalia and the division of the real estate of Bankitalia. For those who do not know, Bankitalia is a private bank: 94.33 percent of its shares are in the hands of private banks (31 percent Intesa San Paolo has it, 22 percent Unicredit has it, over 6 percent has General Insurance, 6 percent has the Cassa di Risparmio in Bologna); the INPS has 5 percent. Therefore, the Italian State is a minority shareholder. Why are we talking about this? Because the capital of Bankitalia is divided into 300,000 shares, which correspond to 535 voting rights. These shares have a current value of 156,000 euros: it is the value of when the bank was established. Now we are talking about re-evaluation of these quotas. But the problem is that, when you re-evaluate the shares, the private banks that hold them automatically have an explosion of the capital they own. This in itself is not good, because the Bank of Italy is an institution governed by public law which acts under a monopoly and issues non-healthable liabilities at zero cost: this allows it to have a financial management free from any constraints proper to the private sector. In fact, therefore, this bank seigniorage generates a profit which, in part, increases the reserves of the Bank of Italy itself. Who decides how much he's going to reserve? The Board of Governors, which is appointed by the private banks themselves who are part of the control package. You understand, then, that we are already faced with a conflict of interest, at a time when a bank governed by public law, acting on behalf of the State and profiting on behalf of the community, has a private shareholder. At a time when it is decided to bring these quotas - the value of which, according to the calculations, is expected to range from EUR 1.3 billion to EUR 1.7 billion - to EUR 5.7 billion, we are making a gift of at least EUR 4.3 billion. (Brusio). What's the excuse, if you let me talk and you don't make too much noise? If you are not interested, you can also leave the Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The excuse is that, if we revalue the quotas in the hands of the private, then we can also tax them: thank you, but at 15%. The ordinary citizen pays taxes for 50% and those for only 15%. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There's more, though. All this is part of the plan that also includes the 2005 Savings Act, which provided that the shares of the Bank of Italy should pass into public hands. If we inflate them from 1.7 billion to 5.7 billion euros before we get them into public hands, we're giving someone a gift. And then we're also going to buy them back: I revalue them and you buy them back cash! In this way we give EUR 4.3 billion to private banks. If we divide them for the quotas, we find that Unicredit gets 1.8 billion, Generali 200 million, Intesa San Paolo 900 million euros. Then there is the question of the property of the Bank of Italy, which has been magically transferred to a branch of company which, however, is a company governed by private law in all respects. These are thousands of properties: 6,500 non-functional properties. What will be of these properties? Who are the owners of these properties? It's private banks at 94.33 percent. Since you are always talking about work, what about all functionally connected employees, such as goalkeepers? We do not know: people who are not the children of anyone; people who may have a contractual maintenance for three years, after which they will be in the middle of a road. There's no guarantee for these people. So, every time we talk about cutting waste, we read: giving money to banks. The advice that could be given to the ordinary citizen is to open a bank, because it is taxed at 15% and occasionally comes a gift at the end of the year. In this case, €4.3 billion plus the revaluation of real estate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The question was, whose interests do we have? The answer is: we are once again doing the interests of private banks. Now, though, you know in advance. You know what you're going to vote for. It will be up to you, when you vote, to see if it is worth voting for such a mess, giving money to private banks again. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u47	She is registered to speak Senator Mussolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u48	Mr President, I will concentrate only on two elements of this measure, to make it clear how impossible it is to vote in favour of it. The first element has also been mentioned in other speeches by my colleagues. In the provisions on immigration there is a fund for the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors who - I remember - represent an emergency in our country. I would also remind you that, in the last parliamentary term, we adopted a motion, among other things unanimously, in which a very important request was made, which goes beyond the fund of 20 million, which is a ridiculous figure compared to what should be allocated. We asked for legal status for unaccompanied foreign minors who come to Italy, because they disappear. This is a real problem. Where, then, do you get these funds? This is the most serious thing of all in the measure, because the funds are taken from the reduction of the solidarity fund to the victims of crimes of the mafia or usury type. We talk so much about the desperation of the citizens, and you know that the last beach is to resort to strotze and wear, and then we go to reduce this fund? What kind of signal do we give? I'm asking the government, too. It is not possible that, in a moment of despair, there will be a reduction in this fund. I make another remark, very briefly. There is a great absentee in this provision. But is it possible that we are not talking about Europe? Is it possible that Europe does not put a single euro in this measure and that we must put money, which we do not have, in order to cope with emergencies? Where is Europe? Where is this beautiful and great Europe? A colleague of the League quoted Germany. But there is no Germany, and it washes its hands, like all other European countries. They say Frontex is here. But Frontex does not intervene, because he has scarce resources. We have to pay ourselves this measure, these emergencies. But our emergency is an emergency for Europe, because our borders are Europe's borders. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I wonder, then, whether we should not include the economic presence of Europe in this measure, as we asked for in the Commission's opinion on work. Being in Europe means not only rigour, but also sharing social and, above all, economic emergencies. We ask the Government why, precisely on the eve of the Italian Presidency of the European Semester, the question has not been raised in this measure. Europe is not there. Europe is only there when it demands sacrifices from Italy, but not when it has to give. Together, in fact, we must defend the borders and, together, we must defend the people who come to Italy and also the Italian citizens. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u49	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u50	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of the decree-law that we are debating include measures to limit the budget deficit 2013, which will allow for the improvement of balances of EUR 1.6 billion, resulting in a correction of 0.1% of GDP and the repositioning of the deficit-to-GDP ratio to 3%. (18.14) (Following MANDELLI). It is therefore a'manovrine', with measures to bring back the financial deficit planned for 2013 within the 3% threshold, with the addition of some immigration measures. It is clear that the text of the decree, in which measures on immigration, local authorities and the internal stability pact are clogged, is inconsistent, with the result of increasing the already high regulatory confusion. In short, the ultimate aim is simply to scrape up 1.6 billion with cuts to ministries and transfers to local authorities and with the sale of property buildings to the Deposit and Loan Fund, from which 525 million would be drawn. In the text we note also the forecast for which State, Regions and local authorities will be able to withdraw, by 31 December 2014, from the leases of real estate, which obviously involves the risk of reviewing legal obligations that the administrations have contracted with counterparties in good faith. In addition to the stop to the agreements signed to rent real estate, which will oblige the administrations to cancel with a notice of 30 days, the text states that, by the end of this month, the General Accounting of the State will have to certify to the Regions and the associations of Municipalities, like the ANCI, the payment of the sums as reimbursement of the debts of the public administrations to the companies paid before 30 September 2013. In the municipal coffers, then, will arrive 120 million in order to guarantee the return of the IMU quotas following the cancellation of the second installment of the tax: funds that - it has been specified - will not affect the calculations of the Internal Stability Pact, while the mayors will be allowed to use the proceeds of the sale of the derivatives for the reduction of the debts. The regions with a health deficit whose return plan proceeds in a virtuous manner are allowed to allocate the extratragettito from IRPEF and IRAP increases to the essential public services and to the liquidation of debts with the companies. As for the allocation of the Viminale to local authorities, no more sums will be donated below 12 euros. In order to manage the emergency of migrants' landings on our coasts, 210 million arrives, and the municipalities are not virtuous, the subject of migratory waves, first of all the island of Lampedusa, will be exempted from compliance with the constraints of the Stability Pact. On the use of this financial envelope, the Ministry of the Interior will have to submit to the Chambers a report no later than 31 April. It is therefore a bunch of small interventions, put together without a unified logic, just to make this year's accounts square. Without prejudice to the fact that, unfortunately, in European logic, the correction of public finances appears mandatory, we are firmly convinced, however, that it is not enough to go ahead with corrective measures. In recent months no effort has been made to avoid the increase in VAT; no overall reform of real estate taxation was prepared, which the Government had undertaken to do by 31 August last June. On the other hand, fragmentary and uneven measures have been envisaged, such as, for example, the provision of the single municipal tax (IUC), which will once again increase the tax burden. The solutions proposed by this decree-law, as well as those which are being introduced by the law of stability, raise doubts and pessimism on the side of tax policy. It is essential to take bold and more ambitious measures aimed at growth and development in a firm and determined way, capable of allowing a reversal of negative feelings that, every day, come from the categories of workers, associations, businesses and families, and also proceed quickly to the reduction of the tax burden. In conclusion, we need interventions that are capable of leading to a reversal of the trend, through more important long-term policy actions aimed at accelerating the reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio by means of an incisive process of valorisation and disposal of public assets, with which to combine measures for the return of capital from abroad and an effective spending review. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u51	Senator Del Barba is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the decree-law on which we are going to vote firmly on conversion allows us to improve public finances in order to achieve the objective that, with tenacity and determination, we have pursued with every single measure that impacted on the accounts as well as on the real economy, that is, to fall back into the ratio of deficit to GDP of 3%, intervening on the overtaking of 0.1 percentage points that, in the state, would take us out of the parameters of the Stability and Growth Pact. It is well known that the performance of the public accounts reflects, for the year 2013, the general state of the economy and is at this time to be corrected not for an indiscriminate increase in expenditure, but for the continuation of the recession that leads to continuous decreases and adjustments of the denominator of this relationship, that is, national wealth. It will be objected, with well-founded reasons in general, that, precisely in times of crisis and recession, state intervention through public expenditure, especially productive investment, constitutes the necessary countercyclical support that the system as a whole may need. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to get out of this somewhat simplistic vision of opposition and exercise realism as well as adherence to the recent and so dramatic history of our political action. In this 2013, so terrible for our companies, for families and the local authorities themselves (which once again have to endure sacrifices, seeing themselves limited in their capacity for action and subsidiary support to the needs of the territories), in the culmination of this terrible curve, we have once again an important objective, stubbornly sought for our internal choice and similarly wanted to respect the European agreements and prepare a 2014 in which we can, as protagonists, propose and assert our point of view on Europe and on the merits of the economic policies implemented by it. With this measure we are going to revise the public accounts of 1.6 billion, a total amount not too large but significant at the moment, sharing the intervention mainly on the central state and, by part, on the local authorities, with a tightening of the Stability Pact to the extent of 540 million euros. In this regard, it should be noted immediately that the effects of this measure (potentially very negative for local authorities and the economy itself, taken up daily by the chronicles that rightly highlight the economic availability of the institutions for spending and the impossibility to carry it out because of the limitations of the Pact) are partially neutralized by the stability law, approved a few weeks ago by this branch of Parliament and now under discussion in the House, which extends the financial spaces for 2014 on the Internal Stability Pact and whose positive benefits we have already discussed, at least in the river meetings of the Budget Commission that accompanied the measure. We can then say that, although in the midst of a real perfect storm - as defined by many press bodies - today we are centering the objective, managing to accompany a public expenditure (which in recent decades has transformed its positive character into a dangerous tendency to out-of-control growth), having stopped to deteriorate it in its quality by making indiscriminate linear cuts, the introduction of conditions of stability that allow to intervene in a targeted and virtuous way starting from 2014, as expected. We have succeeded with all the limitations that the prolonged emergency situations involve, having the understanding and the sensitivity to spread in every intervention of the measures, perhaps insufficient but significant, that marked the course, indicated for the future of the virtuous choices and provided immediately resources, although to the extent that is possible today. It is possible to read in this direction the incentive to the unions of the Municipalities, contained in this maneuver and above all the intervention of 120 million on the Municipal Solidarity Fund. Finally, with this measure we respect a parameter, because for our country it is indispensable to remain fully free and credible in our choices and to assume greater authority within a Europe that appears to us in difficulty, but to which we have believed, of which we are found and that, with our rediscovered strong voice, will finally face some decisive knots for the strengthening of the economic and political ties that can assure us the solidity that the Italian recovery needs in the next year. We respect the pacts, we are serious people and we have proposals that you must listen to, for our sake, for the future of Europe. That is what we are saying to the German Chancellor, to the French President, to the Member States, to the European Commission, to the people of this extraordinary continent; we are and have our contribution to make, which we want to hear. Significantly, the measure opens up by allocating resources for immigration interventions, also following the serious events of early October in our sea. Allow me, Mr Senator Candiani, with all the esteem and respect I bring to him, to point out that perhaps the reference to the primaries of PD, precisely in a measure that makes available an important amount of money as a result of those serious facts, is quite out of place. In particular, Article 1 increases the fund for the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors for the year 2013 and establishes an immigration fund to be shared, according to the changes made by the House, also taking into account the reception needs of pregnant immigrant women and those of municipalities most exposed to the influx of foreigners. With this act, in terms of public accounts, we conclude 2013, a horrible year, we repeat it. We close it by realizing the decline in GDP and showing that we can adapt public spending, but above all by having previously and throughout the year laid the premises for this to happen without hurtful trauma. In a collapse of productivity we freed resources that the public administration unduly held back with the provision unlocks debts and we intervened on many aspects of public life, often causing the central apparatus to lose weight. We have laid the foundations for a sudden revision of expenditure, which we are preparing with the forthcoming work of the Commissioner for spending review, and at the same time we can talk about reducing the tax wedge within the law of stability and growth, now under discussion in the House. We have found the courage and dignity to put more money on culture, university and our future. We finish today, ideally, a year, or perhaps better a nearly three-year period, in which as a country we stopped telling us about fairy tales, the cost of which was then systematically to be downloaded on the future. Today we have assumed responsibilities. I come to the conclusion, Mr President. The real economy, the unemployed, the companies that close or contract profits tell us what we know: that all this is not enough yet, that on the contrary we touch the lowest point, that the accounts alone do not immediately translate into well-being and growth. We are well aware that these interventions serve to mitigate a situation and - we believe with all our conviction - we are correcting developments that would further worsen the situation, overcoming dangerous points of no return. Inside these numbers - and I conclude - there is not only the arid adjustment of the State Accounting on public accounts, in order to respect cold parameters: there are the reasons for all the choices that have led so far and, above all, the hopes and precise desire for recovery that we base in 2014, being able to count - this yes, now! - the virtuosity of our choices and the will of the State to become even small, when necessary, if this is to be read as an attention to the needs of the citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u53	The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not wish to speak, I would ask the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the first standing Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u54	The first standing Commission, which has examined the draft law in its capacity, shall, as far as its competence is concerned, deliver a non-obstacle opinion. Having also examined the relevant amendments, it expresses, in so far as it is competent, the following opinions: - on the amendment 1.8 non-obstacle opinion, pointing out the desirability of involving the State-Regions Conference in the allocation of the Fund provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 1; - on the amendment 2.16 contrary opinion, since the provision provided for therein, in transforming into an obligation the option granted to the Regions in the reduction of increases in tax rates covered by the rule, appears detrimental to their constitutionally recognized autonomy; - on the amendment 2.17 contrary opinion, since the provision provided for therein, directly affecting the regulatory instrument by which the Regions may reduce the rates of the IRAP, is liable to affect the autonomy to which they are constitutionally recognized; - on the remaining amendments opinion not precluded by the provisions thereof, having a direct effect on the regulatory instrument by which the Regions may reduce the rates of the IRAP, it is liable to affect the autonomy to which they are constitutionally recognized; - on the remaining amendments opinion not precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u55	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1 of the draft law. I would remind you that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u56	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.11 which, in my opinion, contains an important provision. In fact, there is a vulnus in the legislation, since only lonely children and pregnant mothers are expected to be assisted. The problem, however, is that if a mother gives birth on a boat, the child is no longer alone and the mother is no longer pregnant. I wanted to point out this issue in order to resolve it, perhaps by transforming the amendment into an agenda, since the amendments are often rejected. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u57	I call on the authors to withdraw all the amendments, otherwise the opinion is against them. On amendment 1.11, if it were turned into an agenda, the opinion would be positive.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u58	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u59	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u62	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would ask that we proceed to the vote by electronic procedure on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u63	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, up to the words "+20 million" with the following. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of amendment 1.2 and amendments 1.1 and 1.3. are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.10, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I call on Senator Comaroli and other senators to vote simultaneously, by electronic procedure, on the first part of Amendment 1.6. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of amendment 1.6 and amendment 1.7 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.9 tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.11 has been changed to agenda G1.11 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.12. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senators Bertorotta and Mangili. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.13. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u64	Mr President, I am in favour of the G1.100 agenda when reworded by replacing the initial parts of the three points of the device, respectively, with the following words: The opinion was favourable to agendas G1.101, G1.102, G1.103 and G1.104. On the agenda G1.105 the opinion was in favour of rewording the Government's obligation to consider whether it would be appropriate. With regard to agenda G1.106, the opinion was in favour of rewording the government's commitment to communicate to Parliament. On the agenda G1.107 the opinion was in favour of rewording the government's commitment to assessing whether it was appropriate. Finally, the opinion was in favour of the G1.108 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u65	My opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u66	Senator Santangelo, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G1,100?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u67	Mr President, I am appalled at the request for a reformulation of an agenda of this importance. We are talking about urgent measures to be applied to the CIEs, so I would ask both the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to review this position, because - I repeat - it is on the agenda itself, I think it is absolutely acceptable. Otherwise, I would like to know why they are asking me to make the wording softer. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government whether they intend to revise their position.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u68	Mr. President, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u69	Mr President, let us not change the position, and I also explain the reasons. The agenda G1,100, which is particularly full-bodied, from the point of view of the premises basically makes a series of considerations, which in our opinion are also in part irrefutable, on the overall conditions on which the activities of the centres have been guaranteed to date, and provides basically a series of interventions that are very restrictive and extremely demanding by the Government, also on issues - I say this with clarity - on which, from the point of view of political sharing, there are obviously aspects on which we should confront ourselves in a more precise way. Having said that, the use of the formula to assess the appropriateness is precisely intended not to close on this agenda in an excessive way in our opinion. I would therefore urge the proposers to accept this rewording, because it is clear that there is a commitment on the part of everyone to improve overall the interventions concerning these centres, but there is an ongoing debate, and I think it is right to address it without having such a binding agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u72	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I note that the Government does not intend to give a favourable opinion on measures to improve living conditions within the IECs, and I would ask that the agenda be voted on in the original text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Santangelo, in the second line of the second commitment I believe that the word "monna" should be understood as "reform," otherwise it seems like a bad word. I'm asking for confirmation. SANTANGELO (M5S). You're right, Mr. President. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u73	I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, on the agenda G1.100 (correct text), presented by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. Since the Government has accepted the agendas G1.101, G1.102, G1.103, G1.104 and G1.108, they will not be put to the vote. Senator Comaroli, proposals for reformulation have been put forward on agendas G1.105, G1.106 and G1.107. Do you welcome them? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas G1.105 (text 2), G1.106 (text 2) and G1.107 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u74	Mr President, I call for all the amendments to be withdrawn, otherwise I do not think so. I give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G2,100, G2,101 and G2,102.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u75	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u76	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u79	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u80	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bitonci and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 2.1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the first part of Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, up to the words "Paragraph 2 ". I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. The remainder of amendment 2.2 and amendment 2.3 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.5 tabled by Senators Uras and De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.4 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.6 tabled by Senators Bertorotta and Mangili. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.7, tabled by Senators Bertorotta and Mangili. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u83	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of the Government, today represented by undersecretary Giorgetti, a text that we have already had occasion to evaluate on other occasions. At the onset of the financial crisis we discovered, because before that date and those events were not known, the debts contracted by our municipalities for having used particularly complex financial instruments called derivatives. It was precisely in 2007, when the financial year 2008 was approved, that they came to light, because they finally entered the budget of the municipalities themselves. So we discovered, also thanks to the journalistic survey so well carried out by journalist Gabanelli on "Report" that many municipalities, from the smallest to the largest, had, in their budgets and therefore in the belly of their financial structure, debts for future administrations, future generations, for billions - I emphasize: billions - of euros. Therefore, such debts are somehow hidden in the folds of the budgets of the Italian local authorities. Something has been done, but precisely at that time we prohibited, in the wake of this emotion, the local authorities from retracing and retiring new contracts, also in the light of the facts that emerged at the time, such as contracts concluded in English or with competent forum such as that of London in the case of disputes between our local authority and the foreign bank with which that contract had been concluded. The derivative contracts concluded by many regions, such as the Piedmont and Campania regions, are famous, but there is one for all, and it is not only a prerogative of the political color of one administration rather than another. At that time, we were wrong to prohibit the local authority from rewriting and recontracting those contracts. Today, we are still dealing with that situation: in the meantime, many courts have been right to the municipalities and wrong to the banks, but we continue to prevent other locals from retracing, if the goodness of the bank does not intervene, which eventually gives way to pressure and especially to the judicial process that it has to face and deal, perhaps favorably, with the local authority. On the other hand, we could have dealt with this issue, particularly when examining this measure, given that it concerns - and indeed concerns - re-entry manoeuvres, but also in the future measure which we will examine in a few days' time, linked to the stability law, relating to local authorities. Therefore, I expect that today the Government, while expressing an opinion contrary to the text of amendment 2.8, will consider carefully the fact that certain cuts (some of which are particularly painful, such as those indicated by previous interventions by my Group) could instead be well replaced by the possibility of granting to the local body, today in a certainly stronger position towards the banks, of retracing a capestro contract, often written in English and also with very small characters. We are still wondering how, in so many of our local and territorial authorities, the financial instrument has been used so superficially, which instead imposes responsibilities, not only for the role of directors, but also for the defense of public money, paid by citizens with their taxes. However, this money is being used so badly that it can be guaranteed financial contracts, which we hope we will never see again. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u86	DE PIETRO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that one word is missing in the text of Amendment 2.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u87	Exactly: it is the word "re-trade." I had already learned of the mistake, but thank you for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u90	Mr Giorgetti, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Mr President, I would like to point out to Senator Bonfrisco - in line with the rapporteur's remarks - that, in truth, the Government, rather than being unable to make any changes to some of the issues, which are essentially acceptable, has raised a problem of priority over the conversion of the measure under consideration. I would point out that, when that limit was set, there were conditions very different from those of today. I believe that this argument has reached a sufficient level of maturity to be able to imagine a text. My call is therefore to withdraw this amendment and to turn it into an agenda, then to consider whether, within the decree introducing financial measures in favour of regions and local authorities, which we will have to discuss in the coming days, there is room for a rule that accelerates an activity that, among other things, the local authorities have already started - as you recalled, Senator Bonfrisco - in an autonomous way and with relationships deriving from more or less strong relationships with the institutions that had given rise to these contracts, modifying in fact the contracts themselves. I also believe that today there is an overall condition on the markets that would allow us to do this operation, freeing up useful spaces for local authorities in a condition of economic narrowness. My call is therefore to withdraw the amendment and, as I have already said, to turn it into an agenda. The government for its part, considering the topic interesting, undertakes to discuss it in a measure that we will be able to deal with immediately after this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u93	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would like to ask the representative of the Government to give more thought to the opinion expressed on this amendment. Otherwise, in fact, dear Undersecretary, someone should explain to us the reason why the unfortunate citizens of a region like Campania, for example - as indicated by my colleague Bonfrisco - should continue to pay the mistakes made by the Bassolino family, who occupied for ten years that Region, to which it gave many derivatives, with the subscription of billions of derivatives in English, with the father who was in Campania and the son who was in London. [[Applause from Senators D'Anna and Falanga.]] We also wonder why the current administrators, both regional and municipal, who have found this legacy, cannot renegotiate, if from this operation they derive beneficial effects on the balance of payments, with a reduction of expenses. Why do we have to spend more? Someone has to explain to me why, in a situation where you don't get to the end of the month and there are tickets to be placed everywhere, you have to continue paying to banks that guarantee big profits - because the profits last over the years - to those who have had the derivatives signed. Why can we not return to a situation in which these contracts are written in Italian, in our mother tongue, that of the tricolor, leaving the English that is causing so much confusion, as my colleague Bonfrisco has pointed out, also seen the use of very small characters? We ask these questions especially with regard to a situation in which, as the amendment states, the execution of such contracts has generated or continues to generate significant losses for the institution. Yeah, come on! We cannot wrap our eyes to ham in the face of such evidence, which goes against the interests of the citizens of those municipalities and those regions which have - alas - such disasters and certain administrators of which it is good not to speak anymore. [[Applause from Senators D'Anna and De Siano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u94	Before giving the floor to the other Members who wish to speak, I would ask Senator Bonfrisco whether she is prepared to withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u95	Mr President, allow me a detailed answer to your question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u96	No, I'm sorry, Senator, but you already arranged your speech earlier. I invite you to tell us whether you intend to accept the Government's proposal or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u97	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Allow me to specify, Mr President. I would very much welcome the proposal of Undersecretary Giorgetti, because I understand and share his caution. However, I would like to make him reflect on the fact that we allow a simple option only if the execution of such contracts has generated or generates a significant loss. I think that, with respect to the regulatory framework that undersecretary Giorgetti used to mention and represent, this change does not affect aspects of financial risk that could possibly result from other changes. Therefore, I would invite the representative of the Government to evaluate with more serenity a text that seals and establishes the faculty of the institution, but only and exclusively to the condition that it is written in the amendment. I would therefore ask Mr Giorgetti to reconsider, if possible, in the light of this indication, his invitation to turn the amendment into an agenda, which I also consider worthy of our attention and significant of the Secretary's attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u100	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to this amendment, because I believe that the financial instruments to which it refers have been pirated instruments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u101	The Presidency takes note of this. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.8 (correct text), tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the first part of amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time, up to the following words: I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of amendment 2.10 and amendment 2.9 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.11. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the first part of Amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time, until the following words are added: I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of Amendment 2.11 and Amendment 2.12. are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.14. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.14 tabled by Senators Uras and De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.16. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 2.16 tabled by Senators Uras and De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senators Uras and De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,17. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.17, tabled by Senators Uras and De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 218. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.18, tabled by Senators Uras and De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). (Brusio). There's a little too much noise. Someone wants to go on vacation early. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.19. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.19 tabled by Senators Milo and D'Anna. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.20. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senators Uras and De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.21. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.21, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.22, identical to amendment 2.23. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 2.22, tabled by Senator Bulgarelli and other senators, identical to amendment 2.23, tabled by Senators Uras and De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of amendment 2.24. GUALDANI (NCD). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.25.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u104	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I will be very quick: we are not obstructing. Amendment 2.25 stems from recent events and a particular case in Sardinia, where a company had to lay off its employees and suspend the work of a public works awarded with public evidence. This enterprise had been entrusted to realize a fringeflutti in a harbour dock of Arbatax, where the ferry of Tirrenia docks, and it has had to suspend the intense activities because, to the second state of progress, positively evaluated from the competent office, it has been to the same communicated that the funds, to its time engaged for the award and the realization of those intense activities, had disappeared. We are faced with small companies that carry out the work, following the award of a contract on the basis of a contest legitimately carried out, and that are suddenly in a condition of absolute discomfort, becoming, as it were, the bank of the State, with the serious consequences of which I spoke before, also because of the employment reality in territories that already live conditions of discomfort. Mr President, this is something we have also discussed in the Commission. The reasoning that Senator Bonfrisco used to make is worth it: these are absolutely reasonable instances that would be worth immediately grasping. We would also be in favour of withdrawing amendment 2.25 and turning it into an agenda, but we would seriously commit the government to tackling this issue in a useful legislative measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u105	Mr Giorgetti, I would ask you to comment on the possible transformation of Amendment 2.25 into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u106	Mr President, we had already discussed this issue in the Commission with Senator Uras. Therefore, the Government requests the withdrawal of amendment 2.25 and confirms its willingness to accept an agenda to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u107	I am in favour of the G2.25 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u108	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G2.25, G2.100, G2.101 and G2.102 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2-a of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u109	Mr President, this matter is certainly important, but having listened to the reasons already given by the rapporteur and also agreeing that this text should not be amended, I withdraw all the amendments I have signed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u110	Mr President, I agree with what Mr D'Ali has just said: although this matter is important, I propose to address it again in a forthcoming decree and withdraw amendment 2‐ bis.0.1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The remainder of the amendment is set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u111	Mr President, on Amendment 2-a.4 I am calling for a withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it. With Senator Serra we had already talked about a possible change of agenda, on which I announce the favourable opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm asking Senator Serra if she confirms that intention. SERRA (M5S). Mr President, I turn Amendment 2-a.4 into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u112	I accept the agenda for G2-a.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u113	Having been accepted by the Government, the G2- bis.4 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u114	Mr President, on all the amendments referred to in Article 3, I am calling for a withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u115	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u116	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u119	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u120	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senators Uras and De Petris to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 3.1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senators Uras and De Petris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senator Lezzi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.4 tabled by Senator Bulgarelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator Bertorotta and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senator Puglia. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1174 PRESIDENT. That concludes the discussion of the amendments and agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u123	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in view of the fact that it seems to me that by tomorrow morning the other measures are not yet ready for consideration by this House, I would like to propose - having already consulted the representatives of the groups - that explanations of vote and final vote be postponed until tomorrow, also in view of the meetings that some groups must hold. As Vice President, I have heard almost all the Groups, and it seemed to me that there was a sharing on the proposal to complete the examination of the measure tomorrow morning, with explanations of vote and the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u124	It seems to me that all colleagues agree. We have done a fruitful job in this period of time, so the Presidency accepts Senator Gasparri's request. Therefore, I would like to refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u126	You have the right to do so. (Brusio). Wait a minute, Senator Giovanardi, otherwise I think it's very difficult to be heard. (Brusio). Colleagues, please keep an appropriate attitude until you have left the Chamber. Senator Malan! Senator Quaestor must help me maintain order. You too, Senator Gentile, contributed to the mess. Please, Senator Giovanardi. GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor on a personal basis, but I believe that my personal work may be of interest to many Members of this House. I believe that another step has been taken towards the degradation of the institutions. This happened exactly on December 5, when four colleagues of the 5 Star Movement Group, Maurizio Buccarella, Roberto Cotti, Enrico Cappelletti and Sara Paglini, in a press conference presented an exhibit to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome, in which they accused some colleagues essentially of being scammers, that is to say of using a scam system, consisting of putting a ball in the voting device to make it appear as present senators who would be absent and therefore would not be entitled to perceive the diary.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u127	[[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] I have not read the exposition but I have read the report of the press conference, and the problem, at least as far as I am concerned, is that my colleagues Cotti, Cappelletti and Paglini also listed in the end the names of the supposed pallinists and among those who would cheat the state also made my name. Mr President, of course, I have already given my lawyers a mandate to check whether there are any details of slander or defamation against me, since an act has also been presented to the prosecutor of the Republic, and of course I will protect in every place my goodness and the correctness of my behavior. Since I have never voted for an absent senator and no senator has ever voted for me when I was absent, I ask the Presidency first of all to address the Members who did this press conference to ask them to confirm in the Senate whether it is true what the news agencies have reported, namely that they have named me as a supposed fraud, or whether they are able to deny their statements. Otherwise, I call for the establishment of a Jury of Honor to ensure that the Senate, through its President, meets to protect the goodness of its members. I warn my colleagues that, as a result of this attorney, the sites have filled themselves with threats and insults against the senators who have been referred to as fraudsters. It is an intimidating and blackmailing system that I do not accept, and I ask the presidency of the Senate to protect the goodness of the senators compared to those that, at least as far as I am concerned, are total and unfounded lies. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u128	Senator Giovanardi, your request and the reference to Rule 88 of our Rules of Procedure... (Brussio). Colleagues, we are discussing a matter that is not quite light. So if you are not interested, I invite you to leave the Chamber. The Chamber cannot become the seat of the discussions at the end of the sitting. Senator Giovanardi, I was replying that Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure provides that the Grand Jury may be set up and requested for facts arising in the debate in the Chamber. Therefore, only if someone else takes up these concepts will Article 88 find its foundation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u131	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, today I would like to bring to your attention an affair concerning the Municipality of Grotte, a small municipality of the Agrigento, three kilometres from the Racalmuto of Leonardo Sciascia. Since last 13 November Grotte has a regulation TARES, published on 13 December on the institutional site of the agency. Unfortunately, this regulation is identical to that of the Municipality of Viareggio, so that Article 10 (6) reads: For water mirrors the tariff shall be adjusted to the water mirror given in concession. Too bad that the sea, around here, can hardly be perceived even only the smell, being about 30 kilometers away. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is still stated in Rule 10 (6) of the Rules of Procedure: In the event that the concession is relative only to columns, gavitelli or catenaria used from authorized nautical units to moor in the port of Viareggio, the tariff is due to the length of the naval units that could potentially be moored. The administrators of Grotte, in essence, want to charge the TARES to the boats moored in the port of Viareggio! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Laughter.]] But you know, there's the crisis, and everyone can manage how they can, even using creative finance solutions! It is disconcerting to note that Councillors, Councillors, Mayor, President of the Council, none of them have read the document before it was approved, despite six meetings of board committees. But this is only the icing on the cake (perhaps) of five months of administration in which the transparency rules have been regularly and daily violated. For example, a one million euro call was published in a totally incomprehensible form, violating Articles 1, 2, 3, 6 of Legislative Decree No. 33 of 2013, and not just those. The local 5 Star Movement raised the case and formally asked the Municipality to intervene in implementation of the principles of effectiveness and efficiency in the use of public resources. Unfortunately, no answer. The entire section of the institutional site of the Municipality, called "Administration Transparente" is now almost completely empty, missing the curriculum of the mayor and the city councilors and all the data relating to the administration, which by law should be published. On 25 October, the mayor and the city councilors approved the documents that make up the 2013 budget scheme of the municipality, but they forgot to publish the annexes, which constitute an integral and substantial part of the budget of the municipality (the 2013-2015 programming report, the 2013-2015 multiannual budget plan, the 2013-2015 forecast budget scheme), thus violating Article 12 of Regional Law No 5 of 2011, according to which the acts of the public administration are public and assume legal value from the time of their inclusion in the telematic sites of the institutions, for this purpose appropriately advertised. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u134	CAMPANELLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a Sicilian, I have set in my mind a good and strong image of the Police and the Carabinieri. In my land on this subject there is no room for the middle ways: either be on the side of the Basile and the Cassarà or consider them "scops." Thank God I learned from a young age to see in law enforcement the benevolent face of the State: the one that protects citizens from criminals and protesters from provocateurs. Proximity to defend democracy. Of course, there have been tragic episodes such as that of the school "Diaz" in Genoa, but those I have read as an offense, first of all to the victims, but then also to every policeman and policeman loyal to the law, that is the majority. This is the vision that the 5 Star Movement, always respectful of rules and laws, has of law enforcement. I read in today's newspapers that some policemen and policemen took off their helmets and took part in demonstrations that, by service, were supposed to protect against accidents. I stopped to reflect on the meaning of the matter. I have always been in favour of recognizing the police in service and in that gesture I have seen the will of those boys to reassure the protesters about the possibility of parading peacefully, without having to fear anything from the police. I then read the statement of the Italian Unitary Union of Police Workers (SIULP) in which we speak, so that it seems menacing, of "measure filled" and I believe that it contains a hallucinating interpretive forcing with which I absolutely do not agree. Cops and carabinieri are servants of the state to protect Republican laws and institutions; everyone expects them to protect citizens while they legitimately protest. Each of them is given, in the exercise of their duties, to understand the reasons for the protest and to solidarity in his own heart; however, each is given the duty to enforce the laws of the State in order to protect the Republic. Attention: defending the institutions means respecting the Constitution, laws and duties of service, does not mean posing to people at the disposal of the powerful, who often want to exploit the police as drivers or as people at their service. However, it is essential to set a point: law enforcement is used to safeguard the established order. The political system and the political staff that failed must be changed with regular elections, in compliance with the laws. The wrath of the honest, though terrible, must be unleashed in electoral ballot boxes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u137	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of this time to make a very sincere appreciation of all those citizens who have participated in the Democratic Party's primaries these days. I think it is always healthy to go and do your duty in these situations, because it is something positive. The involvement of citizens is an important civic commitment, of those who renounce, in this case, the heat of their own home, to spend themselves in what they believe. It is hateful to offend those who peacefully and democratically demonstrate their thinking, whether it is through popular consultations, such as the primary ones, or whether it is done by filling a square for a public meeting. Those who do this show little democratic sense and racist contempt for those who think otherwise. It is an old and cynical way of doing politics. Voices in the 5 Star Movement are not immune, sometimes, from attitudes of this type, and I have always dissociated myself. It is even more surprising to hear the same words of contempt spoken by the new Secretary of the Democratic Party, who calls himself democratic. Offering those who have dedicated an entire Sunday to demonstrate in Genoa, as did the new Secretary of the PD, denotes ignorance, as well as bad taste. Ignorance is about how that day took place and how so many issues and problems were dealt with, in Italy and beyond. On that occasion Occupy Wall Street recognized in the 5 Star Movement and not in renzism the reference point for movements of change around the world. We know very well what politics is and what anti-politics is, we know who really caused the PD earthquake and exploded the entire party system based on the defense of power and which represents the real anti-politics; in other words, the one that betrays its voters and its inspiring principles. We know well who caused this big bang, the resignation of Bersani, the explosion of Civic Choice (which are really exploded, now they are totally absent), the decadence of Berlusconi (also of his no-one anymore) and the split of the PdL. The 5 Star Movement made all this possible with its victory in the February elections and its consistency in refusing to act as a crutch to a government that would still continue in the policies demanded by Europe. So, dear neoleader, in your heart you know, you are where you are certainly thanks to the votes of those who participated in the primary by virtue of a political context, a tsunami, which was caused by millions of Italians who voted and will continue to vote usefully for the 5 Star Movement. Denigrating ourselves by underestimating our commitment and by liquidating everything with the phrase "fake and anti-political" is unacceptable, as well as being decidedly undemocratic for those who, like us, during these months in Parliament but also when we were outside these rooms, have defended honesty, transparency and anti-politics, because we are still political. We try to build a better society and defend every day what we do and we want to pass it on to Parliament as a whole. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u140	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on a personal matter, as Senator Giovanardi has called it into question. I wanted to make a brief more general point first. President, this Senate has been humiliated too many times by some of its most unworthy representatives. We called them and still call them pianists, i.e. those who vote for themselves and also for others, and even those who make to vote for themselves not being present in their place, being also hundreds of kilometers from here. Now the pianists are called pallists because - we have seen it several times - there are some who voted in this House with a roll of paper ball. I repeat: some senators voted in this House with a roll of paper. You were there, Mr Calderoli, at that time to act as President of this House. We, as the Five Star Movement, have promoted an amendment to the Rules of Procedure which could, if implemented, put an end to something unworthy of this House, and not only. I answer Giovanardi very quickly. I read the shorthand report of the 33rd session of the Assembly of 4 June 2013. One line is enough. Senator Giovanardi says: "In hours of voting and during dozens of votes (...) I have therefore asked another Member for the courtesy of voting for me (...). Now, I ask and say: Mr Giovanardi, go and say it out of here that you ask a colleague to vote for you, although perhaps present in the Senate. GIOVANARDI (NCD). President, I ask for a jury of honor! Mr Capelletti (M5S). Go tell the Italians, go tell the committees of pitchforks that they show out here. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Go and say that it is legitimate, in your political area, to vote with a paper ball fraudulently inserted inside the voting hole. And be ashamed! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] GIOVANARDI (NCD). You'll pay them all! AIROLA (M5S). He threatens us, Mr. President! Let's call it in. Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u141	Colleagues, see that anything that happens in here can be sanctioned. I would have read - but I believe I can entrust it to your studies - a ruling by the Constitutional Court on a similar case. So, if we're gonna deal with this seriously, fine. If we're gonna scream at them or something, it's not okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u144	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, my speech goes in this direction. You have just considered that Senator Giovanardi's request could not be accepted, because, under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the insulting fact must occur in this House during the debate. Clearly, when we talk about discussion, we speak in a general sense, that is to say we are talking about a debate on any problem, not just a general discussion on a legal provision. However, I believe that this affair, which is having a very extraordinary echo, must have an outcome. That is, we must actually determine, once and for all, whether and what are the correct behaviours during the vote and what are the insults or, in any case, the deplorable facts that deserve to be sanctioned. If Senator Giovanardi accused four members of the 5 Star Movement of having slandered (he used this expression), then I ask that you, Mr President, on the statement by Senator Giovanardi set up the Commission to assess whether that which is the subject of this accusation against the four colleagues of the 5 Star Movement constitutes or not a deplorable behaviour and therefore, as such, to be sanctioned. This is my personal request, because I believe that in any case, as a fraction of the power of this House, I, like all the senators, must protect the image of each of us.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u145	Colleagues, I will send Senator Giovanardi's request to the President, who will check (Senator Giovanardi asks to speak). Senator Giovanardi, there is nothing more to say, because tomorrow is convened the Council for the Rules of Procedure and the request that I will make here - because in my opinion it is indisputable what is written in our Rules of Procedure - is that finally we clarify the speech of those who can vote and those who cannot vote and finally there is the possibility of making decisions in both ways. I have my own conviction, but since we end up having a debate every time, with reference to the various Rules of Procedure and the annexes to the Rules of Procedure, I think it is appropriate for the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to close this issue once and for all.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u147	For what? Personally on personal matters? GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, this is not the case. There was an attitude that I call cowardly and slanderous, which was reiterated a few minutes ago in this House. The accusation, in a statement by the prosecutor of the Republic, is a fraud to the State, because I was indicated among those who vote here for a colleague absent in the Chamber and who may be in another part of Italy. It is a veritable slander, which has been reiterated in this House. I would have expected my colleague to say that what the agencies have communicated is wrong and wrong. It is clear that the discussion that will take place at the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will have the objective of understanding whether, in the presence of two senators, next to each other, the electronic voting system can allow, in their presence, a certain method of voting. Another issue, however, is slander or defamation for unlawful, criminally prosecutable behaviour, which was attributed to me at a press conference held in the Senate, and which has been reiterated in this House today. On this I ask a jury of honor to know whether I deserve censorship or whether it is my colleagues who slander and defamation that have to be censored.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u148	Senator Giovanardi, these are two different issues. One concerns Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure and the other concerns the way in which the vote is expressed. For those who are lovers of the matter, I invite you to read the decision of the Constitutional Court No 379 of 1996.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u150	For what reason? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would simply like to speak in order to calm my souls. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I wouldn't want it to make them more stormy. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to reassure Mr Giovanardi and tell him that the statement which my colleagues have signed and deposited with the Public Prosecutor of the Republic does not concern his person. Therefore, all fears of any slander against him are unfounded. You can calm down.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u151	Colleagues, in the judgment of the Constitutional Court that I have just quoted, if anyone will have the curiosity to read it, it is quite clear that judging on the matter is not the responsibility of the judiciary or the prosecutor of the Republic but of the House of belonging. In this sense, I intend to clarify the voting procedures so that the House of Members can adjust accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u152	I communicate that, following the authorisation decided today by the Council of President, pursuant to Article 14, paragraph 5, of the Regulation, the Group called "Scelta Civica" with Monti for Italy was formed, of which are members the senators Gianpiero Dalla Zuanna, Benedetto Della Vedova, Stefania Giannini, Pietro Ichino, Linda Lanzillotta, Alessandro Maran, Mario Monti and Gianluca Susta. The Bureau shall consist of: - President: Gianluca Susta; - Vice-President: Alessandro Maran; - Secretary: Stefania Giannini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u153	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-148.ana.u154	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 11 December, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.32 a.m.
