ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) on questions concerning interventions for industrial crisis situations and measures to promote innovation and development, to which the Minister for Economic Development, Mr Zanonato, will respond. I would point out that RAI's live television is underway. So let us turn to questions about interventions for industrial crisis situations; the senators have the right to ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u6	Borioli (PD). Minister, the crisis that is affecting our country and the process of deindustrialization increasingly involves also industrial sectors that have remained strategic for a long time in the panorama of our manufacturing. The question I am asking you today concerns two of these sectors: the cold and the related industries and the special steels and stainless steel sectors. As for the cold, it is a sector that still appears today as one of the most significant components of the Italian production system: it generates an important induced, occupying about 130,000 employees, located in different areas of the national territory. From it, however, there are clear signs of difficulties, especially linked to the processes of relocation of production to Eastern Europe or Turkey. Recent reports have given us examples of these difficulties, such as Fabriano's Indesit or Borghetto Borbera's Bundy, in the province of Alexandria, which produces refrigerator tubes. There are only some winds of crises that have come back, but they certainly do not calm down for the future. As far as special steels and stainless steel are concerned, we are talking about one of the leading sectors of Made in Italy, which was also relaunched by the Action Plan for a European steel industry. This is a sector that has one of the world's leading producers in the Terni Special Steels; a reality that gives work, between direct and induced, to about 6,000 people and for which, however, there are also the concerns related to the passage of Terni's site from Inoxum to ThyssenKrupp, with an operation with complex and difficult industrial contours. The Government is therefore asked to know, with regard to the cold sector, what are the assessments of the future potential and what initiatives it intends to put in place to consolidate it; in the field of special steels and stainless steel, what strategies it intends to implement, even in conjunction with the European Commission and with the guidelines of the Steel Action Plan it has launched.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u7	I call on all senators to respect the times at their disposal, which are mandatory, taking into account also the live television.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u10	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, in recent months, on several occasions, the Government has expressed its intention to intervene on electricity and gas bills, reducing the cost that small and medium-sized enterprises and domestic consumers have to bear to a much greater extent than in other European countries. Since the beginning of this legislature, the Senate Industry Commission has launched an in-depth survey of electricity and gas prices as a strategic factor for the growth of the country's production system. The numerous hearings that the Commission has held have revealed the obvious price differential that Italian companies have to bear in the energy field compared to their European competitors. In particular, the voice of the so-called system charges has risen in recent years in its various components, including the A3 component of the bill, which in the last year has reached the stratospheric quota of approximately 12 billion euros. Premier Letta, on the occasion of yesterday's communications in Parliament, announced that the Council of Ministers would adopt, next Friday, a so-called bill-cutting decree-law. It is therefore asked to know specifically which emergency interventions the Government plans to adopt in order to immediately reduce the prices of electricity and gas in Italy, with particular regard to the system charges currently borne, for the most part, by small and medium-sized enterprises and domestic consumers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you for respecting your time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u13	FUCKSIA (M5S). Dear Minister, Italy has been experiencing the most serious economic crisis since the end of the Second World War. Since 2007 GDP has fallen by 7 percentage points and the Italian business counter turns backwards. According to Movimprese, in the third quarter of 2013 the balance between open and closed companies fell below 0.4 per cent: the worst figure of the last ten years. With 60,000 companies closed, of which 10,000 in declared bankruptcy, continues and worsens the negative trend already recorded in 2012. The agreed questions tripled compared to 2012 and is a record for voluntary liquidations. Since 2008 we have lost 80,000 artisan enterprises: an ecatombe that translates into 200,000 fewer jobs. It is as if they had closed, at the same time, the Italian factories of FIAT, the Ferrovie dello Stato and ENI; as if in the last five years had disappeared 6 percent of the productive fabric artisan active before the global crisis. While we are here to discuss, Minister, a dozen companies are closing down. With the exception of the food sector and few other excellences, the crisis has invested all sectors: manufacturing, construction, transport and services. The discomfort is the same to the poor South as to the rich North. A country historically divided between the North and the South for once seems to be on the same line: the crisis involved all the Regions, even the most virtuous ones. The situation of the Marches is emblematic, where after more than half a century of continuous growth, one enterprise has gone from every 9 families to 90,000 jobs lost. At the test of nine, the numbers don't add up. Our companies close for debt and credit, because it is often difficult to collect. They close because they do not hold the global market; because our made in Italy is not adequately protected; because the purchasing power of the families is being beaten; because bureaucracy immobilizes; because taxation (in particular the tax wedge and IRAP, an absurd tax - we might call - of development) is abnormal. What economic policy measures and strategies does your Ministry intend to implement to overcome these barriers and relaunch development? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you for keeping track of the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u16	CHIAVAROLI (NCD). Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you a question in a telegraphic manner. The trends of our industry are part of a declining trend both in the production typical of Made in Italy (weapons and footwear) and in those characterized by more advanced technological levels, such as electronics and motor vehicles. Given that the key is the loss of competitiveness, especially on international markets, I would like to ask you what the Ministry intends to do to influence the main factors (one of which was mentioned by my colleague Mr Pelino: the cost of energy) that affect the competitiveness of our companies.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u19	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, so far 2012 has been the hardest year of the crisis for the number of companies that have closed: between failures (which were about 12,000, i.e. more than 1,000 per month and more than 34 per day), liquidations, non-failure procedures, there have been about 104,000 Italian companies lost. Particularly alarming is the crisis that has hit companies in the trade sector, a sector that since the beginning of the year has been hit by a severe hemorrhage that is leading to the desertification of commercial activities in Italy, with absolutely dramatic repercussions from the social, economic and employment point of view. In the first four months of the year he opened only one store every three closed stores. The continuing crisis, in the absence of support for the sector, will lead this year to the loss of some 30,000 companies and 90,000 jobs. Commercial activities that close in areas of the territory with a high concentration of elderly people are increasing, and this clearly creates many problems for the quality of life of these people. The trade sector is subject to a high tax burden, which moreover appears increasingly articulated in too many different taxations, leading to a serious loss of competitiveness for Italian companies. We ask you, Minister, what solutions can be put in place to take immediate initiatives to support the industrial and commercial sector, in the direction of a drastic reduction in the number and overall weight of taxes and taxes, recovering the necessary resources also through the implementation of a more incisive policy of cutting public expenditure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u22	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I will be very brief, partly because I have already asked this question a dozen times in the Commission. The question is very simple: why, in order to avoid the process of deindustrialization in our country and the privatization of fundamental parts of our manufacturing, the Government does not adequately refinance the relief to companies that use solidarity contracts and does not urgently open a discussion on industrial policy interventions to ensure a resumption of public and private investment?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u25	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, Minister, given the current impasse that characterizes the Italian industrial sector and the urgent need to find viable and urgent solutions, I would like to draw your attention. I recall the high strategic value accorded to renewable sources by President Letta, who has repeatedly pointed out that he considers the development of renewable sources as an absolute priority in the field of energy and has highlighted, among other things, that there is a real and real concern on this side, reaffirming that there is a conviction on the same to continue to debate and work in Parliament. Despite this, in recent times there has been a process of weakening of this productive and industrial sector in general and of the individual micro-sectoralities in particular, such as, for example, the sector of the energy producers from countervailable, whose future is compromised by the operating instructions issued last month by the Manager of the electric services (GSE) in implementation of the decree of the doing. There are therefore normative, organizational and bureaucratic limits that seem to condition the operation of the companies and that are leading some of them to start the disposal of the activities with closures of the plants as well as to resort to mobility for the employees. We are not talking about increasing incentives or increasing the cost of renewable energy on the bill: we have never asked for this. We ask that we understand how we intend to intervene on an industrial sector in crisis, possibly through a simplification of the bureaucratic scaffolding. Therefore, what initiatives does it intend to prepare in order to overcome the critical impasse that currently conditions the economic and industrial sector that involves the production of energy from renewable sources, in full compliance with the European commitments and those undertaken on the national side by the Letta Government?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u28	LANGELLA (GAL). Mr President, Minister, Campania is a well-established industrial sector in our country. There is an articulated presence of products that are made in the production districts of Campania that are now a national reference point. However, the global crisis involving traditional industrial areas in the North has not spared even the Mezzogiorno and, therefore, Campania. The Memorandum of Understanding signed in July this year by Minister Zanonato, President Caldoro and CEO of Invitalia, Domenico Arcuri, provides for the implementation of a series of actions for the conversion and relaunch of the main industrial crisis areas in Campania. In support of these actions, €150 million are available through a reprogramming carried out with the action plan and cohesion, which has allowed to direct resources not yet used for the revival of the industrial fabric of the Campanian territory. A special executive committee with representatives of the Region and Ministry was also set up to monitor the interventions. I am therefore asking the Minister whether the priorities on which the interventions have been concentrated have already been defined; whether procedures have already been put in place to collect expressions of interest from business organisations likely to invest in the areas concerned; what kind of incentives and financial facilities have been defined; whether additional facilities have been provided for innovative investments; whether there is an estimate of the jobs that will be kept and the new places that will be created in Campania. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Zanonato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time I have answered a question time in the Senate. Since the time available is very short, I commit myself from now on to send each of you a written memory that is more comprehensive than the few things I can tell you now. I would like to start with an issue that is the one on which all the others are concerned. In Italy, over these years, industrial production has fallen by 25%, GDP - as has been mentioned - has fallen by 9%, while in some sectors (e.g. construction) there has been a decrease of 38%. It is clear that this general figure is the starting point of a whole series of other situations that have rightly been mentioned: there is a decrease in domestic consumption, because there is less money circulating; there is an increase in the number of unemployed (the drop in production clearly leads to an increase in the unemployed); companies close both productive and commercial in nature. The starting point is that the country in recent years, from 2008 to today, has lost its competitive capacity that is measured by the fundamental numbers we have remembered and that are part of the tools through which a crisis is measured. What, apart from the international factors, are the factors that also have a major impact on the European and Italian situation, the factors that put us in difficulties compared with the other European countries? In part they have been mentioned, but I also mention them: we have a very expensive energy (I will not get into the matter very long); we have a particularly high labour cost in the component of the tax wedge (i.e. that part of the labour cost that does not end up in the pockets of the workers); we have difficulties in accessing credit and, finally, we have a system with bureaucratic complexity on which it would be extremely interesting to have a discussion that goes beyond the common places and enters into the matter of a question that has more complex aspects than we sometimes call out. About the cost of energy, the decree of doing has already cut about 500 million euros, intervening substantially on two increases that end in item A3 of the bill: the first is relative to CIP6, the second - I was asked also a question in this regard - is relative to the herbicides, that is vegetable oils used to produce energy coming from countries like Indonesia and Congo and on which weighs a particularly high incentive that increases the item A3 of the bill (it is a discounted fact). Keep in mind that any source of electricity that obtains any kind of contribution ends up being paid by the user because it is not financed by the public; therefore, it does not weigh on the tax system but on the electricity bill. We also spoke on the CIP6 and I do not explain briefly what it is, because you certainly know what it is. We will now intervene to understand how it is possible to remove some contributions that end up in item A3 of the bill. The alternative doesn't exist. Keep in mind that in Italy the installed power is twice and a half the power consumed: in peak times we consume 50 gigawatts and have a production capacity of 124 gigawatts. Of these 124 gigawatts one part is intermittent, i.e. produced from renewable sources. If we switch from the installed power to the consumed energy, we find ourselves faced with this figure: in the face of a total electricity consumption of 340 terawattora per year, the energy produced from renewable sources is 90 terawattora; all the rest is produced by plants using fossil energy (in particular methane gas with combined cycle plants, coal and oil). I repeat: there is no alternative. It is necessary to influence the mechanisms that in some way increase the A3 item of the bill. Personally, I have put forward the proposal to extend in a longer time the investments made on renewable energy, issuing a special bond, a bond, so as to make the cost of this operation pay not to the producers of renewable electricity, but spreading the cost on the item A3 of the bill, which remains lower but lasts longer over the years. This is a complex intervention to be agreed with Europe; tomorrow we will also begin to make this request. It is certainly not a matter of saving in the strict sense, but of modulation of expenditure which must be supported. There are other mechanisms that allow you to spend less, but they have a much lower impact. I am referring, for example, to the opportunity to finish some lines of distribution which are still behind or to shut down some very expensive oil-fired power stations, as well as very polluting ones. There is a plan to work in this area, and I will give you a note on this. On the cost of labour you will have observed that the bill of stability, for the lowering of the tax wedge, allocates about 2 and a half billion, of which one and a half billion will end up in the pockets of the workers (it is certainly not a very high figure, but it is still 1 and a half billion and the entire IMU operation is worth four; it is money that the workers will be able to spend in the internal market) and one billion is destined to reduce the tax wedge paid by the enterprises. It has also been said - and as soon as we have the results on this ground there will be a definite initiative - that all the savings achieved through the cutting of public expenditure will have to be used to reduce the tax wedge. Several initiatives have been taken with regard to the accessibility to credit of businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. The Guarantee Fund has been increased by a measure which I still do not know whether it will be a decree or a financial link. The problem, in fact, is that, by presenting the decree-law now, Parliament would have twenty days less for conversion, and we would not want to deprive the Chambers of the legitimate possibility of examining it. Therefore, the matter is under discussion; I will see how it can be dealt with in full respect of the Chambers. As far as access to credit is concerned, as I said, we have increased the Guarantee Fund, we allow small companies to issue minibonds and finance themselves outside the banking system, and we have financed a measure that allows a significant cut on interest when renewing machinery. This decree-law has been converted into law by the Chambers and must simply be seen by the Court of Auditors, as the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Economy and Finance have already exhausted their activities. This is also a fundamental point, because allowing businesses, especially healthy ones, to access credit is crucial. A quick mention of bureaucracy: as you have seen, various anti-bureaucratic rules have been adopted. It is a much more complex matter than is normally illustrated; it is illustrated as if there were simply procedures that need to be overcome or in some way simplified. Certainly there is this, but there is also the fact that many initiatives in the country create a conflict of interests that must be composed (for example, the establishment of an industrial plant and the need to respect the environment). This composition of interests, which is complicated, often takes time and we need to find procedures to simplify it. But the contradiction, which must then be resolved, exists and is not simply a bureaucratic fact. As far as the AST mill in Terni is concerned, I think the ThyssenKrupp operation is interesting. The steel industry has no market problems, it will continue to produce; it simply changes ownership as a result of a provision of the European Antitrust Authority. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Minister. Mr ZANONATO, Minister for Economic Development. I will send a written reply on all points. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Eventually, in the course of the reply to the questions that will be addressed to you on the second topic will be able to recover a few seconds. They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u32	Borioli (PD). Minister, thank you for your answer, also because you have taken up some of the key factors that determine the competitiveness gap of our production system. I hope that there will also be the opportunity to examine more specifically the issues I have raised with regard to the two areas that have been the subject of my question. Let me just point out, among the factors that I believe will have to be attacked in order to give competitiveness to our system, also that relative to the logistics and the system of infrastructural transports, that it is another constraint that weighs enormously on the factors of cost of production of our productive system.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u35	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, thank you, but I repeat my concern, which is then that of millions of Italians: the cost of electricity and gas bills must be reduced as soon as possible, because the moment is such that, if we do not intervene immediately and in an incisive way, we run the risk of taking away a very important element, such as the energy sector, from the development of companies and above all of imposing further sacrifices on Italians, who are already too oppressed by the tax system.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u38	FUCKSIA (M5S). Dear Minister, thank you. I call for bold action, because the crisis is not only what we can read in employment and income statistics: there is also a crisis of perspective for uncertainty in imagining the trajectories of future development. What depresses investment and entrepreneurial propensity is precisely this uncertainty. The recovery will not be possible unless we provide incentives and incentives for enterprise engagement and risk. Entrepreneurial vitality cannot be based on spontaneity. The new innovation and internationalisation models require an increased capacity to design and manage joint and synergistic actions. Businesses, institutions and research must cooperate to try to identify and agree new horizons of growth. This is essential both to concentrate resources and to... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u41	CHIAVAROLI (NCD). Minister, I would simply ask you to give concrete answers as soon as possible so that we can influence the four factors that you have rightly indicated and which lead to the loss of competitiveness of our companies. I would therefore urge you to take concrete action by the Government to ensure that there is a push for companies to start up again.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u44	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Minister, I am pleased with the first part of your speech, in which you recognized all the difficulties this country has. On the other hand, with regard to the answer he gave, I hope that the written text he will send us will be more exhaustive, because I have not found a clear sensitivity to trade, which is going through a very difficult period. The question of the tax wedge, to which you referred earlier, has been mentioned for a while, but we always refer to very small decimal places and I do not think they will be enough to put a sector in a position to restart. The question of energy has been mentioned. We have worked very hard in the Commission on this and we acknowledge it to the President, but we will have to take a further step forward to enable energy companies to benefit from energy at such a cost that the product can also be sold in foreign markets more easily.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u47	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr Minister, I do not really know if I can say thank you, given that you have not given us any answer at the moment. I, too, will therefore await your written reply. I would like to be able to say thank you on behalf of so many workers when this Government takes serious action on solidarity contracts: just because you said that there is little work, I think that in a time of crisis splitting that work is the right thing to do. I therefore expect something concrete from this point of view and I would add that we must also defend the work that is unfortunately going away. We have striking cases such as the single hub of transport (Irisbus, BredaMenarini, but I could mention many other names), with companies that represent excellence in our country; unfortunately we do not understand why, on the one hand, we pay fines to the European Community because our means are old and polluting and, on the other hand, we do nothing to defend what we have and that - I repeat - is an excellence.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u50	DI BIAGIO (PI). Minister, thank you for the information you have given us. I believe that, with regard to renewables specifically, the issue deserves to be addressed clearly, with ad hoc initiatives, specific to each micro-sector. While energy production from renewable sources must be encouraged in any way, solutions are needed which take into account the specificities and convenience, as well as the greater inactivity, of one sector compared to another. It is difficult to understand, Minister, because, on the one hand, there are constraints on the energy production activity of small private individuals, for example, and on the other hand, the ENI is converting historic plants, such as that of Porto Marghera, feeding them precisely to the latter, without neglecting ENEL's construction projects, such as those in Sardinia. There is a sort of two-track approach: on the one hand, to facilitate monopolies, and on the other, to remove small businesses. We hope that, with the measures referred to, this breakdown will be re-established.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u53	LANGELLA (GAL). Minister, I look forward to your written reply, since we have not entered this issue today. In a moment of industrial crisis like the one that crosses the whole country, I remember the plan of action and cohesion financed, with 150 million euros, last July. I think we have a duty to speed up the bureaucratic process in order to ensure that all the initiatives for which these resources have been allocated are put in place. I hope that you, together with the written answer, will also take action - and I also address my fellow Members - to ensure that the bureaucratisation that attacks our system is streamlined, because this is perhaps the biggest problem in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u54	Let us now turn to questions concerning measures to promote innovation and development, which will be answered by the Minister for Economic Development, Mr Zanonato; the senators have the right to ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u57	FABBRI (PD). Mr President, Minister, the continuing economic crisis no longer allows us to wait for measures that can make the recovery of competitiveness structural. Although the fall in GDP in the third quarter has stopped, this is not enough, as the President of the Council, Mr Letta, recalled. The country from here has to start again. Even today we are seeing the closure of thousands of businesses, it was mentioned earlier: 80,000 closed businesses, 220,000 lost jobs, except for enterprises led by women and immigrants and for which it would be worth a detailed study. The government, it must be acknowledged, has worked in the right direction in recent months but that is not enough. In this regard, while it is true that the growth and relaunch of the productive and economic system in Italy pass through support for innovation and research, support for exports and the relaunch of consumption, I ask the Minister to know what measures he intends to take, if Destination Italy is a first important response and at what point are the implementing measures relating to the issue of credit, in particular, to the Central Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u60	BOCCA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, the issue of territorial disparities in economic development has marked the economic history of our country since Unity. Their reduction has been constantly at the heart of the economic policy agenda, up to a European dimension. We recall that in the preamble to the Treaty of Rome of 1957 it was proclaimed that the Member States were entitled to strengthen the unity of their economies and to ensure their harmonious development by reducing disparities between the different regions........................................................................................... It is true that in an economically underdeveloped environment such as ours, without adequate public support, spontaneous convergence processes are not always initiated and gaps can therefore perpetuate. The continuation of the crisis has led to a further widening of the gap in the development of the economy of the Mezzogiorno with the Centre-North, but let us not forget that the regions of the Centre-North have also suffered a strong slowdown in growth, precisely as a result of the crisis that we are experiencing. Among the measures put in place to support growth, development contracts are the instrument to support private investments, in order to facilitate the implementation of development projects relevant to the country, with particular reference to the areas of the Mezzogiorno. The discipline of the criteria and the modalities of concession of the financial facilities has been introduced with the interministerial decree of 24 september 2010, and the recent law 9 August 2013, n. 98, has previewed a refinancing of 150 million euros in favor of the development contracts. Having said that, I would ask you, Minister, if you consider that these investments induced by public money can produce lasting well-being in the territories in question, which regions are most benefiting from these interventions and which projects have been financed so far and the resources allocated to each of them.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u63	GIROTTO (M5S). Minister, like all the world, Italy is at a crossroads: to continue as from business as usual towards climate and environmental deterioration or to start the transition to a model of sustainable development. The UN and the world of science have been warning for a long time: over the next 50 years we must drastically reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and in order to do so we must reduce the use of fossil fuels and increase energy efficiency. It is obvious that this transition cannot but disturb the balance of the great economic interests of fossil fuels, which are intended to be replaced by a new decentralised energy system, based on low carbon technologies of renewable sources, and efficiency. All international scenarios foresee a strong increase in the contribution made by renewable sources, supported by the diffusion of smart grids, i.e. innovative technologies such as information and communication technologies (ICT), able to make intelligent the functioning of energy networks, a fundamental element to facilitate the transition towards a decentralised, sustainable and functional energy system to the needs of citizens. However, despite the good practices and many pilot projects carried out, including with the support of European funding, the regulatory framework, including the Italian one, does not allow the use of these technologies because the rules do not govern it. This criticality was also raised at the recent first conference of the "Smart utility open meters", in which the alarm was launched "already invested 25 million euros, but there is no question" with the strong request of the Authority for electricity and gas: Intelligent meter utilities are now required. In the light of the above, I would like to know what measures, including regulatory measures, the Minister intends to take to facilitate and make cost-effective the adoption of smart grid technologies, not only for electrical operators, but also for users, with particular reference to the development of storage systems, an essential element for the growth and spread of smart grids.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u66	COUNCIL (NL-Aut) Mr President, Minister, the retail sector is one of the most affected by counterfeiting. Commercial abuse and counterfeiting have now taken on the character of a criminal industry, which operates in complete illegality, profiting from tax evasion and systematic infringement of competition, even to the detriment of citizens' health: this is very serious. These phenomena cause commercial businesses, bars, restaurants, some €17.2 billion per year of loss of turnover, and due to illegality 43,000 regular shops can be lost per year, with the loss of more than 79,000 jobs. Commercial abusing, fixed or walking, is also the cause of losses of 8.8 billion euros, equivalent to 4.9 percent of the regular turnover, while the abusing in tourism costs 5.2 billion euros, just over 10% of the volume of business that generates the sector: next to me is Senator Bocca, who is well understood of this sector. The damages caused by counterfeiting are many, to the treasury and to the companies, and enormous. Each year around 12,000 jobs disappear in Italy, while the turnover of counterfeit products is estimated at 6.5 billion euros, with peaks in the clothing, accessories and food sectors. This raises the question at the root of my request: support for research and innovation could be an effective tool for combating counterfeiting, helping businesses to recover growth and competitiveness. In this scenario it is also necessary for the Government to take an organic action to defend free and fair competition, for the benefit of Italian companies. Minister, we therefore ask you what initiatives, including fiscal initiatives, you intend to take in order to promote the development and innovation of Italian companies, with particular reference to sectors particularly exposed to abuse and counterfeiting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u69	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr Minister, Sardinia has suffered in recent years, with severe occupational and economic consequences, a progressive process of dismantling industrial activities, in all the provincial territories and in all the productive sectors. From Sassari to Cagliari, from Villacidro to Nuoro, to Carbonia-Iglesias, from chemist to textile, from mining to metallurgical, the plants and the direct workers and the induced are, at best, assisted by social shock absorbers. There has been an increase in the unemployment rate in Sardinia by more than 10 points and it travels, to some important falcades, around 20%. The Sulcis Iglesiente has unfortunately become a national symbol of worker suffering. Minister, I ask you to know what initiatives the Government has undertaken or intends to take on the innovation and development front in order to relaunch industrial activity, with the introduction of good practices of eco-sustainability in that Sardinian territory, starting from the productive vocations that that same territory has matured, especially in the field of aluminium, the mining of coal and the production of energy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u72	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, Minister, it is clear from the new programming of the European Structural Funds that strategic issues, such as innovation and technology, have been considered in support of Made in Italy and small and medium-sized enterprises. This undoubtedly reflects the need to contextualise interventions in a scenario of evolution, conditioned by a crisis precisely in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. It has been said that the goal is to modernise Made in Italy, moving productions in global competition towards the quality and innovation range. From this perspective we understand the new attention for the ICE - Agency for the promotion abroad and the internationalization of Italian companies - through, for example, the increase of the funds for its operation, which, however, seems not to pay attention by the agency to those projects of innovation and information (such as the ITH project), which are currently incomplete and that serve to support the enterprises in the difficult processes of internationalization. Among other things, the ICE has at the moment managed to alienate Retitalia international, the computer society that dealt with it. Added to this is the fact that, despite the fact that government initiatives are oriented towards the valorization of the functions of promotion of the made in Italy, the agency does not proceed to the valorization of its potential of human resources, not integrating for example the officials winners of competition in 2010, which could be a further instrument aimed at the implementation of the functionalities of the Agency in the light of the international economic scenario. This creates operational limits for the sector, with the risk of also deleveraging the mission of the new programming of the Structural Funds. I therefore ask you whether you intend to promote a review of the choices made by the ACE Agency for the promotion, in terms of the potential of human resources and IT potential, in order to bring them into line with the new needs to promote innovation and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in a global context.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u75	LANGELLA (GAL). Minister, the globalization of markets makes our producers compare with those of the world. It resists to the global challenge those who propose something extremely innovative or who produce, in the traditional manufacturing, with innovative processes and therefore at competitive costs. Reducing costs per unit of product in Italy is a difficult task because, however, the cost of labour remains high, because however the cost of energy is high (twice compared to that of the United States, which is also a country with great innovation). The problems of those who produce in Italy are multiplying in the Mezzogiorno, because of the chronic lack of infrastructure and networks. In the title of our question time there is one word missing, in my opinion: "research", which cannot be separated from "innovation" and from the subsequent development "development." There are realities of excellence in our Mezzogiorno that should be supported by additional incentives for those who invest in research and industrial innovation. These include Campania's technological district and Catania's. From these districts start research that innovates life all over the world (microchips or polymeric materials, for example). What action is being taken to encourage the further creation of technological districts in the Mezzogiorno or to facilitate the development of potential or emerging districts towards a more mature stage? What are the initiatives to pool research and innovation centres aimed at industrial development?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u78	DELLA VEDOVA (SCMPI). Minister, even yesterday in the programmatic statements for trust President Letta rightly pointed out that, starting next year, and then again later, the Government's objective is to create the conditions for a recovery of growth. Certainly, from this point of view, they have played an important role, but they will have to have more and more liberalisations and interventions in the future to make all markets more efficient. From this point of view, as you well know, there is in Italian law, from July 2009, the annual competition law, a tool that must be activated and used year after year, referring to the reports that Antitrust makes exactly in relation to the annual competition law; the Antitrust reports were there, but for a number of reasons, the previous Governments did not want, did not know or could not give you implementation. We have put our request among the key points for the coalition pact, the 2014 Italian Pact, and we repeat it here. We come to the annual competition law bearing in mind that, in the DEF Update Note, the majority motion for a resolution indicated that the annual draft law for the market and competition were included among those related to the stability law. It seems to me that this point has gone to cavalry; not to cavalry must pass the urgency of putting hand to the annual competition law and starting a virtuous mechanism of greater efficiency of the market. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Zanonato, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the questions you have asked me call for a long answer, so we also adopt the method of a written answer here: I will immediately obtain the shorthand report with your questions and I will reply to all of you on a timely basis. I am also available to come and discuss some of the important issues that you have also put in the Senate Commissions, so that you can explore a whole series of issues with a little longer time. In the meantime, I will tell you what will be included in the bill related to the financial that we are dealing with in the Council of Ministers tomorrow, so that you can see that many aspects meet the demands that have been made here. The first issue concerns the issue of energy. We want to contain further the bills of 650 million, as the President-in-Office of the Council said yesterday. With regard to the second question, we will introduce a guarantee mechanism allowing major industrial innovation projects to access the financing of the European Investment Bank. This should allow companies that are unable to access these funds today to use them. One measure concerning research is the tax credit for new investments in research and development, with a total funding of 200 million. We will enter a rule of this type: it works with the tax credit, the cost is 200 million. We also point - and I have also told you before - to the issue of minibonds, credit funds and securitisation for access to the credit of small and medium-sized enterprises, so that banks are not the only channel of financing. We will also introduce a measure that reduces the cost of the RC car insurance premium, with a whole range of mechanisms that go in the interest of the user and - probably - even of the same insurance companies. The basic idea is that the policy, with equal guarantees, must cost less. We also introduce the so-called digital bonus. What is the digital bonus? You already know it from the point of view of ecobonus: a building that, therefore, consumes less energy, and this produces a tax advantage. The same applies to the digital bonus: these are tax breaks for digital connections of small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, digitally modernising small and medium-sized enterprises can benefit from this mechanism. We will also introduce such a rule for those who buy books. This goes in the direction both of increasing the reading in our country and of favoring the bookstores, especially those that do not belong to chains, which today are suffering greatly. Do not think that there are so many: it is now a few hundred, and this also concerns trade. Some hundreds of bookstores are suffering greatly. It is - therefore - a tax deduction for those who buy books, with the possibility to deduct up to a certain amount. We also offer vouchers of up to 10,000 euros for small and medium-sized enterprises that buy computer systems and programs: this is also an objective that aims to overcome the digital gap that characterizes our country ( 100 million of funding are available for this measure). There are also a series of administrative simplifications and fiscal incentives for the productive recovery and industrial conversion of polluted abandoned areas. What happens, for example, where there have been industrial plants that have long maintained the settlement site? It happens that the huge cost of the full restoration of those areas, which sometimes it is not necessary to complete (since new plants are being installed), does not allow them to be healed anymore. We have imagined a mechanism that allows an area that remains in the industrial production to be healed according to precise parameters, but without reaching a complete return and then be again compromised by an installation; this should facilitate the reuse of polluted areas and the non-use of areas that would instead be again covered by industries and companies. We value mineral resources and rationalise the fuel distribution network. We have a system of oversized fuel distributors: we want to simplify it, also helping the pumps to close or to convert in the direction of methane or columns for charging batteries. Finally, we increase resources to promote internationalisation. Here we meet some aspects that you touched upon when you talked about made in Italy. These are the measures that will be discussed tomorrow, which are all aimed at relaunching our economy. On the issue of green energy, we are strongly committed. I quote some data so that we can understand the size of the problem. In Italy we consume the equivalent of 2,000 terawattora per year. We import 80% of this energy, mainly in fossil form, but also in the form of electricity. This energy is divided into three major sectors: the automotive and transport sector (there are also airplanes and ships); the heat sector (family and industry); the electricity sector. The latter is 23 percent, the heat sector is 40 percent and the transport sector is 37 percent. I repeat that we are 80% dependent on foreign countries. From here comes a whole strategy that favors this we are able to produce at home. For example, second-generation biofuels, i.e. not those in which you take an agricultural product and turn into bioliquids, but those that use the waste to turn it into energy (among other things, they are forms strongly encouraged also at European level), come perfectly into the green strategy that we have activated: they give us clean energy, at the same time energy autonomy (because we have it at home) and finally a significantly reduced cost. Then I completely agree on the game related to abuse. We have launched many initiatives that we would also like to see approved by the European Union. There is a regulation - which we cannot get through to the Council of Ministers of the European Union while it has already been approved by the European Parliament - which protects Made in Article 7, and we are extremely interested in it. There are different views with other countries: there are states that protect trademarks and not made in. There are large brands that are not necessarily produced in the country of origin: for this reason, some states defend the brands and less the made in. We are interested, both for the consumer to be perfectly informed about what he consumes and buys, and for the Italian brand that, as we know, is the second in the world: the first is Coca-Cola, the second is made in Italy and the third is VISA. So, we passed VISA, which is also a well-known brand worldwide. It is essential to use this element for economic recovery, especially of products that we export, but also of those that we protect in the internal markets. There is a great deal of commitment to this in various directions. However, we must work on the cultural aspect of the population: the purchase of a counterfeit product is a crime. The Minister of the Interior has made a strong commitment to the battle against counterfeiters. Moreover, it is also necessary to make every effort to increase the culture of Italian quality. Of course, I will provide you with a number of elements on the subject, but I would like to stress that a great deal of work is under way, with a table involving all the players involved: producers, traders, the Finance Guard, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Economic Development. The question that has been asked about Sardinia is fundamental. We are strongly committed to ensuring that, on the Sardinian issue, there is an important development of the whole story of the production of electricity connected to the mine of Sulcis. Now I do not explain in detail the CO2 capture technique that has been identified, on which we now have a precise project. The aluminum match is also at the attention of my Ministry. Finally, I agree with Senator Della Vedova, who raised the issue of competition law. A commitment has been made to this. It is certain that we are late, but we will also come to this point. I apologise for the absolute inadequacy of the answers, which should cover a great many other topics, but I assure you that a very precise and detailed text will come to you on each of the issues you have asked me. In any case, I would like to reiterate my willingness to come to the Commission, where direct discussion and the opportunity to speak quickly makes it possible to deepen the arguments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u82	FABBRI (PD). Mr Minister, while waiting for the written answers that you will send us, I welcome your willingness to come to the Commission in the Senate for further consideration of the case. With regard to the question on the draft law related to the financial, I am satisfied. I understand that there are important measures in it. Pending parliamentary work, I repeat my satisfaction.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u85	BOCCA (FI-PdL XVII). I too thank the Minister and look forward to the written answers on the questions I put. However, we trust that the Government will continue in the direction taken with the proposal of the 2014 Stability Act to refinance development contracts also in the areas of the Centre-North. We particularly appreciate the fact that half of the planned budget will be reserved for the tourism sector. The efforts that tourism companies have made to improve quality standards are also reflected in the growing number of foreign tourists who choose Italian hotels. However, Italian companies can only overcome this challenge by focusing on quality and therefore need system conditions that facilitate and sustain continuous investments. In this respect, we hope that the Government will extend to small and medium-sized tourism enterprises the possibility of using a mechanism similar to that provided for in the restructuring of civil housing, which have a tax credit, pursuant to Article 16- bis of the Single Income Tax Act.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u88	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr. Minister, I'm waiting for your answer, too. In any case, in this moment of dramatic crisis that the country is experiencing it is necessary to intervene promptly in order to remove any obstacles to growth and sustainable development. The non-compliance and the delay on the definition of the tariff regulatory framework by the AEEG hinders any hypothesis of progress in the field; an area in which, according to the latest study carried out by the Politecnico di Milano, it is estimated that the investment potential in smart solutions by 2020 is equal to 10 billion. These investments would result in the recovery of domestic demand, the better management of the electrical system and the consequent reduction of the costs for the management of the same, the infrastructure of an intelligent network that will improve the system of communication and much more than - for reasons of time - I cannot list. Minister, we are not asking you for yet another incentive, but only to remove the obstacles to the definition of rules, clear and stable, that guarantee investment that will help to better develop the sector and promote the transformation of the electricity sector towards an increasingly less centralised and less fossilized model, and increasingly distributed and renewable. For these reasons, I believe that your answer is not yet satisfactory.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u91	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, I very much appreciate the Minister's answers on Article 7 on Made in Italy, on the issue of the crime of counterfeiting and on the table that brings together all the actors involved, because only in this way can we optimize the needs of everyone. I would also point to the question of materials, which are not always in line with the dictates of our safety with regard to the consumer. Finally, a small criticism. The problem does not depend so much on production as on a production that has a low cost and is of quality and on the fact that entrepreneurs - this is the real tragedy - are then able to place their products on national and international markets. I always hope that the Commission does not work in defence but goes to the attack.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u94	URAS (Misto-SEL). Minister, we have long known that the Government is committed to the issue of the cultivation and sustainable use of Sulcis coal production and also of aluminium. However, what this commitment has produced is not, in the state, satisfactory. We therefore await indications, on the basis of the documents which we will be required to provide, of the direction that the Government is taking, and then, perhaps in the Commission, to hold a broader and more detailed debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u97	DI BIAGIO (PI). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the information he will give us. Beyond this, however, I think it is appropriate to reserve a specific moment of in-depth analysis for the role of the ICE, in the light of its renewed configuration and new programming scenarios. In fact, there is a serious risk of creating the conditions for a renewed policy of valorization of Made in Italy, without there being then a structure and management adequate to make all this actually feasible. I therefore hope that in the near future, Minister, he will make himself available in the appropriate fora to address the main issues which at the moment seem to severely affect the potential of the ICE, because of choices whose ratio is difficult to understand, despite several attempts to compare with the agency itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u100	LANGELLA (GAL). Minister, I am, of course, waiting for the written answer to the questions I put in my speech. Thank you for giving us a preview of the measure by which the Government is going to implement - from what I understand - important regulations that serve in particular to the relaunch of the companies present in our territory. I am part of the 10th Commission and I have already announced that I will ask the President for his hearing, in order to ensure that, regardless of the roles of majority or opposition that we are currently in Parliament, we can be constructive and give some response to our entrepreneurs, who live in a moment of tremendous suffering.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u103	DELLA VEDOVA (SCMPI). Minister, I take note of your commitment to ensure that the annual competition law finally sees the light. For us at Civic Choice it will be a decisive point to sign the pact "Impegno 2014" of the Letta Government. We want to modernise and make the Italian production system more competitive by intervening, thanks to the instructors that the Antitrust has made, on banks, insurances, professional services, transport, ports, public administration and local public services. There are a number of measures that are only waiting to be taken in the interests of the Italian economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u104	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u105	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-152.ana.u106	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 17 December, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.10 p.m.
