ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. Questions 3-00011 and 3-00124 on the industrial prospects of the ACC Compressors SpA plant in Mel (Belluno) will be answered first. I call Senator Bellot to illustrate the 2,00034 question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u4	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, this question was settled in early June, but during these months the situation of the company in which it relates has changed. The act of inspection union stems however from the umpteenth emergency situation that our companies too often find themselves having to fight because of the serious economic crisis that all of us in these months have evidenced, but also of other elements that I will highlight in the context of illustration. The company is the ACC (former Zanussi) of Mel, municipality of Belluno, born in 1968 precisely because of the need to restore strength and confidence to a territory hit by the Vajont catastrophe, of which this year the fifty-year anniversary occurs; a territory that has therefore suffered a serious disaster and that has needed to rise again and to start again precisely from the productive, occupational and economic point of view. This is one of the implications of misfortune. As I explained in the premise of the questioning, the announcement of the ACC to want to resort to the extraordinary administration procedure was only the epilogue of a story that unfortunately led to collapse one of the major Italian industrial groups specialized in the production of household appliances. The situation of the company was precarious already since 2012 and the plant, already in competition procedure, had reduced its business, precisely because of liquidity problems, to only two working days per week, so just to a vital limit for the company itself; among other things, this happened in an insolvency situation for about 200 million euros. All this for a serious and continuous lack of liquidity that had led the situation to precipitate, also following a subsequent and continuous denial by the credit institutions of financing in order to try to start and breathe into a restructuring plan of the company. In May of this year, the then CEO, Dr. Ramella, announced that a group of suppliers were interested in acquiring the company, however for various reasons the possibility to realize this new restart of production has failed; this, among other things, for the lack of a real and concrete programming. In September, therefore, a few days ago, the former Senator Castro was appointed Extraordinary Commissioner, by the Ministry of Economic Development. Therefore with this new appointment there is the hope that a new commissioner management, also endowed, from the legislative point of view, with powers of intervention, will be able to give in two years (this is the choice), if there will be the presuppositions, continuity to the productive activity and, subsequently (in phase of stabilization), find new owners (if there will be this iter), then save occupation and productive reality of the territory; all this, of course, in the years granted. The events related to the ACC company are a matter of great importance for the territory, because this company employs about 620 employees, therefore a significant number of people, often belonging to the same family, in addition to the induced. Currently, since there is this extraordinary commissioner, the company is working hard to obtain orders, trying not only to restart the production, an objective that has been achieved for 2013, but to plan the production, to complete a sales campaign for 2014 that, even with broken prices and therefore aiming at a reduction of production costs, leads to realize a product of excellence that is competitive on the market from the point of view of quality and price. In fact, it is considered that competition in the Chinese market for ACC production is very strong. The aim is to have in 2014 a production capacity that allows the company to achieve industrial balance. From a financial point of view things are much more difficult and the obstacles are greater; the company has not yet overcome the difficulty of obtaining funding and liquidity problems. Faced with orders and orders that have consolidated for this year and the following year, the difficulty lies in finding liquidity for the acquisition of the main products, which are the source of the processing and then the finished product. Some suppliers, who are creditors of the company, are willing to provide the materials and products, but with a 100% payment of the product acquired, and this entails a limit and a great difficulty to start the business activities and the process of recovery. Disconcerting myself from the specific content of the questioning, the request that we put to the Government is to have a vision, a capacity, a will to help these companies in finding resources and financing from the banks, in the light, among other things, of a program and of a consolidated ability to produce and to give job, to keep alive an important economic fabric like that of Belluno. Not only that. I would like you to pay attention, in the history of this company and in general of all those who experience similar situations, to the role of hedge funds in the ownership of companies: I think of cases where there is too much finance within companies, to the detriment of projects of an industrial nature and investments, which are the heart and the true strength, the substance that then allows the company to increase over time quality, productivity and ability to support projects in the long term. I believe that the government must also set limits and assess the seriousness of situations that have unfortunately occurred in several companies, having an eye on the subject and trying to limit these actions that unfortunately only cause damage. An intervention that the Government could try to carry out in a strong and concrete way and with immediate timing is the release of the VAT credit of this company, which amounts to 2.2 million euros, a considerable amount that would allow it to share with the production acquiring and paying the materials produced necessary to produce compressors. I therefore call on the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance to take action, a procedure to unlock this credit and to provide liquidity, given that EUR 2.2 million is really a lot and at this moment could really give the company a breath again. The Government has shown, at least has expressed this address, to have attention for the sector of the ELDOM, that in Italy it is strongly developed and that the Ministry of economic development has defined fundamental for the economy of our Country. This would be a further response to the planning and intents that were carried out in the meetings also by the Ministry of Economic Development. I believe that there is room for concrete answers, also in relation to the issues I mentioned in the last passages of my speech. I believe that all this is essential in order to respond to a territory. The extraordinary commissioner has proved this immediately, aggregateing the realities of the territory: workers, union representatives, local authorities and institutions, addressing also the suppliers, who, even if they ask for the full payment of their subjects, remain available to supply the company. We ask that we turn to credit institutions, banks and those who can provide finance, not forgetting the issue of VAT credit that I mentioned earlier, to give back strength and productive capacity to a company that is healthy in its context, is an excellence and still has the ability to produce and give work to a territory that really needs it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to reply jointly to the question before him and to questions 3-00011 and 3-00124.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the problems facing ACC Compressors SpA in Mel have been at the attention of the Government for a long time, and certainly the questioning presented by Senator Bellot and the questions put by Senators Santini and Piccoli have taken on a matter of great importance and of crucial importance for the area of Belluno. ACC Compressors, as the questioners recall, is a company born from a spin off of Electrolux. Currently the shares of the company are held by investment funds that have decided not to proceed to the necessary recapitalisation, and in the acts of inspection union is also referred to this which is a key point of the story. Financial intervention towards the ACC is absolutely necessary in order to cope with the revival of society following the events reported by the honourable Members, who have caused, inter alia, the detachment of the Austrian ACC unit. This separation further weakened the financial position of the Mel plant. In order to address this unwillingness on the part of the proprietary funds to proceed to the recapitalisation the current management group has activated itself in order to find a solution company that previewed the participation of a meaningful part of the creditors and the engagement of the same ones to transform part of their credit in equity and to finance the society with new liquidity. On this basis, the presentation of the industrial plan was planned for the 5th of June, in accordance with the new rules on prior agreement. This deadline was decided following the meeting with the management of the company and the trade unions held at the Ministry of Economic Development on 29 May. On June 3rd, the Ministry was informed that part of the new members had not submitted the formal membership of the project, thus determining the resignation of the other subscribers and causing this hypothesis to lapse, which could also have an important importance in order to allow a resumption of ACC. At this point, at the end of June ACC brought an action before the Pordenone Court for the insolvency of the same company under and for the effects of Legislative Decree No 270 of 1999, which regulates the extraordinary administration of large insolvent companies. Since the legal requirements were established, the court declared ACC's insolvency on 28 June 2013, appointing a judicial commissioner, under the designation of the Minister for Economic Development, Dr Maurizio Castro. On the basis of the report prepared by the latter, by decree dated 27 August 2013, the tribunal of Pordenone declared the admission to the extraordinary administration procedure of ACC and, last, by decree on 4 September 2013, the Minister of Economic Development appointed the extraordinary commissioner in the person of Dr Maurizio Castro. This marked a turning point in the story, as Senator Bellot mentioned earlier. Of course, the Commissioner's objective is first and foremost to secure the continuation of the company's business and working relations and then to seek solutions that will enable it to have a productive and employment-friendly future for ACC. To this end, the Extraordinary Commissioner will have to prepare, within 60 days of the opening of the procedure, the programme of continuing the activities of the enterprise, with the relative economic and financial forecasts, the associated modalities of covering the needs and the concrete hypotheses of future outlet of the procedure. So now we are waiting for the commissioner's plan and of course, as soon as this plan is in place, the government will be ready to report to the Senate and to the interrogating senators themselves what the prospects will be in the light of the plan. With regard to the employment situation, the Ministry of Labour followed the story and on 10 September 2012 ACC company and trade union organizations signed an agreement minutes that provides, also in order to reduce the employment impact of the restructuring measures, the use of the Cassa Integrazione gains extraordinary for restructuring due to the complexity of the production processes in question from 13 October 2012, for the duration of twelve months. The intervention of the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni Extraordinary concerns the sites of Mel and Pordenone and covers a maximum of 622 units, equal to the entire staff of the two sites concerned. Finally, it is recalled that, as the senators know very well (I therefore give this information for completeness, even if it is superfluous), with the opening of the extraordinary administration procedure, the treatment of wage integration is applicable, pursuant to Law No 236 of 1992, which provides for its use throughout the duration of the activity of the Commissioner (and therefore according to the programme that the Commissioner will then present). We will therefore continue to follow with great attention the story of ACC that - I repeat - is very important certainly for the territory of Belluno, but also for the entire sector of the appliance in our country and, in the light of the program of the extraordinary commissioner, we will be able to provide further information to the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u8	SANTINI (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Government and Undersecretary De Vincenti for what they have told us. In fact, the situation has had the evolution that has been represented here and this allows us to use this space reserved for the carrying out of questions and questions to continue in the evaluation of the needs that today concern the company. As we know, we are in a very delicate situation for the financial issues that have led to extraordinary administration, for the implications represented here regarding relations with the Austrian plant and for the fact that the appliance sector is at a particularly critical time throughout the country: I remember in fact that ACC is a company that operates directly in the components of the appliance sector. The immediate needs are exactly what have been mentioned. The Extraordinary Commissioner's plan is moving forward, and I would like to focus on one point here: I believe that it is very important to be able to support the Commissioner's action, which already seems to be quite effective in terms of the recovery of production volumes. There are in fact recent news that give good hope on the ability to recover quotas of productive volumes, and therefore not only to put the company back in activity, but also to quickly bring it to have a profitable activity. The problem, as Mrs Bellot has pointed out, is that of course this affects financial and liquidity needs, in particular resources to support this volume of production, because, given the situation of the company, of course, suppliers require very fast payments. There are two issues, in my opinion, that we want to ask the Government, if it can interpret them directly. The first concerns the release of VAT credits, amounting to EUR 2.2 million, which would obviously give a great deal of oxygen, but which would not suffice, even if they would be very important and urgent. The other necessity is that, using also the recent instruments provided by the decree of the doing (in particular the guarantee fund for the credit), to identify with this company - given the assumptions and the strategic role it has in the field of the appliance, and also seen the fact that the premises of development of the volumes are positive - a credit line, let's say a support, from the guarantee fund, that allows the full deployment of the productive activity and, consequently also the possibility of building the entrance of possible new members, to identify partners both commercial, and productive, in a market that is difficult, but in which, for its history and for its quality, this company has a leadership position, certainly faded in recent years, but still reconstructable, if it succeeds to deploy in full its faculties. This would, of course, also have a very positive effect on employment, because it would allow us to quickly re-enter the use of social shock absorbers. We acknowledge that these have been approved in due time, but of course we would like them to be used as little as possible, i.e. as quickly as possible we would return to having the entire employment within the company. But, for this to happen, these two specific interventions would serve, in addition to the overall strategic framework represented here, therefore the unblocking of VAT credits and a robust credit line, that would allow to support the productive effort that in these months is being made possible and that would also seem to be of excellent size. I'm gonna stop right here. Of course there are all the comments that my colleague has made and that I propose on the poisonousness of the financial use of the presences within the companies. This company pays the speculative use of financial funds that have not cared at all for production, but have taken care only to squeeze the financial possibilities of the company itself. This proposes the theme of always being able to distinguish, in the use of credit, between direct and productive use and instead speculative use. This is a general theme, as we know, but in this case we find it just as one of the elements of great criticality of the company.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u11	SMALL (PdL). Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General, who so promptly and synthetically summed up a story that is really complicated. I report the point of my question: strategic production for Belluno, but strategic production also for the whole country. I would like to remind you that in Veneto we have, for the benefit of all Italy, the entire chain (from university to development, research) that concerns the production of compressors, the strategic heart of cold technology. I asked to know what the possible interventions were in the very short, medium and long term. I would like to comment briefly on the answer, and I would also like to make further requests to the Government. The first is of a general nature. It seems to me - as has been said just now - that it is quite clear that it is necessary to promote serious surveillance actions in relation to the ways in which investment funds of a financial profile operate, forgetting the orientation and the industrial vocation, from the content also relevant (as is the case) of our companies, impoverishing and emptying them. Therefore, I believe that the public should raise the question of how to control these activities. The case of the ACC of Mel is that of a company that, in ten years, has been literally emptied of capacity and financial autonomy. Therefore, I propose that you imagine something - a legislative instrument - that allows, within the limits of the free undertaking of each one, to control these modalities. Also because, remaining within the province of Belluno, moving only a few kilometers, in these days is becoming evident the case of Ideal Standard, manufacturer of sanitary in the field of ceramics. Starting from a precise project of industrial revival presented a few days ago, the Belluno plant was recognized as the beating heart of the group and the plant to be saved; nevertheless, in fact, in these days it is put back into play, for reasons that escape me, but that certainly stick to the interests of the investment fund that owns it. The subject is therefore particularly important. We neglect the local fact and broaden the focus: it is a topic of interest for the whole country. I would like to thank the Ministry: in the days when I presented the questioning we spoke of Dr Maurizio Castro, but today this is a reality (and it is an important reality). I must thank him because - it has been said - with his team he has recovered about 3,600,000 pieces of production per year, which allows, under current conditions, the economic balance. Of the financial balance - alas - we will talk about it again, but at least we have already reached the volume that allows the business economic balance. With his team he is ready to bring the company back to the natural beehive. Of course, the problem is of a financial nature and - I have to use an improper word - the attitude of credit that cannot support productive activities is unqualifiable: credit institutions, in fact, do not grant a few million euros of liquidity to very short. This could really compromise the relaunch of strategic activity for the entire country. I also say, as a communication, that the territory was not to watch. For example, in the supply of gas, thanks to the presence of the municipalities in a large national player, it was possible to obtain conditions regardless of the guarantees. So this is always part of the company's financial possibility. I agree with the request to unblock this VAT credit, because it is really important. It was not said, and I add it as a given, that the July salary was paid only in part, while the August salary was frozen. The news of the activation of the integration fund since 13 October is well known, but if the credit was not unlocked, this would be a very important problem in a particular area: as we know, 660 families within a territory that has 207,000 inhabitants, are a rather complex issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u14	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his reply, which certainly points out the attention that is being paid to this company and to the entire sector, in which the questioners have expressed the need to give a breath and therefore to allow the necessary liquidity. As pointed out, the efforts from the territory are: among these, also the will of the workers themselves willing to work, as Senator Piccoli pointed out, in a situation of non-salary (and we know what this means these days for families). Among other things, it is a company of considerable size, where often work wife and husband and - even - children: we are therefore talking about an economic situation that falls heavily on families. We hope that there will be some space in the near future. The fastest answer to be given is the release of an amount that may not seem important in the whole of the recovery operation, but which is certainly important at least to meet the urgent needs of the moment. Now perhaps we wait to have news, even shortly, about what will then be the action after the plan to restart the company itself will be presented. We could possibly have updates on the government's future interventions in response to questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u15	Following is the question 3-00185 on the redefinition of the principals of the Carabinieri in the province of Benevento. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before dealing with the issue raised by the act of inspection union, I should like to address briefly the important and undisputed role that the Carabinieri weapon plays in the broad mission entrusted to the armed forces for the defence of the country and the protection of the free institutions. As you know, the weapon not only contributes to the integrated defence of the national territory, but also participates in operations for the maintenance and restoration of peace and international security, contributes to activities aimed at the reconstruction and restoration of local police forces in the operational theatres, guarantees the security services of diplomatic missions and consular missions abroad and exercises the functions of military police, exclusively for all armed forces. Having said this, as regards the opportunity to assemble the stations of the Carabinieri of Sant'Agata de' Goti, Dugenta and Telese Terme - as requested by the Senator in question - I stress that these stations, competent on the homonymous Municipalities and, respectively, on those of Durazzano, Limatola and Castelvenere, are not included in any of the projects, recently launched by the Carabinieri's weapon, of rationalization of the territorial system and are not, in the state, affected by other ordering proposals; this in view of the recognized and undoubted functionality of the current institutional structure operating in the geographical area concerned. Before concluding, I would therefore like to highlight - and reassure the senator - how the Carabinieri's weapon has always paid considerable and constant attention to the pursuit of an efficient and adequate territorial mechanism for the performance of its institutional tasks, including the protection of the security of citizens and of the territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u19	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his presence and stress that the premise is more than due, because the role of our Carabinieri must be remembered, and certainly the Carabinieri's weapon has always paid considerable and constant attention to the pursuit of an efficient and adequate territorial mechanism (our children work for us and for the Homeland). However, I note that these premises have occupied half of the intervention. The substance of the response, therefore, is not only brief in relation to the dedicated formal breadth, but also in its own substance. In truth, the request made comes directly from the citizens, because - I remind myself first - we are simple spokesmen: we did not come here to do what we think or what the party might think, or four or five people who lock themselves in a room. No, we are the spokesmen of the citizens, and the citizens of that area ask, once again, the Minister - and loudly - for measures to be taken and the amalgamation of the stations of the Carabinieri of Dugenta (Benevento), Telese Terme (Benevento) and Sant'Agata dè Goti, in order to establish a tenence of the Carabinieri in Sant'Agata de' Goti, which would have the task of carrying out the police functions in the municipalities of Dugenta, Durazzano, Sant'Agata de' Goti, Limatola, to the exclusion of the station of Telese Terme, as there is already a police commissioner. This would ensure greater security for citizens. If, however, the Minister does not consider it appropriate, as it seems, to initiate this process of rationalization of the territorial system, because it is not currently foreseen, at this point the citizens ask for the elimination of stocks - if there are still - of the former Presidents of the House and Senate and a drastic reduction of stocks for the Ministers, the parliamentarians and the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate, in order to commit the sum saved in increasing the safety of the simple citizens, who pay very high taxes and have the right to enjoy their territories in serenity with their family. I quote a few recent episodes about Sant'Agata de' Goti. On 9 September, around 22 o'clock in via Reullo, four people with a covered face, armed with guns and rifles, entered a building with two houses occupied by two sisters and, under threat, forced the victims to be handed over gold, money, two televisions and as many personal laptops. As for thefts, specifically to the detriment of traders, the night between Sunday 8 and Monday 9 September also touched the tragedy. In fact, around 2 o'clock, two criminals arrived at via Sant'Antonio Abate, aboard a Renault Scénic minivan, stole 20 LPG cylinders from the warehouse of a resale for agricultural products, located in front of the higher education institution .Sant'Alfonso Maria de' Liguori. The Santagate merchant, who lives near the warehouse, awakened by noises, shouted from the balcony, fleeing the two balds. Some tanks have even fallen, fortunately without bursting. The citizens ask loudly first of all not to think only of taking money from security to possibly please only one person, that is, as has been the case for twenty years, Silvio Berlusconi. Therefore, the elimination of the IMU, on the first house but that the coverage of this measure is not found reducing the funds allocated to law enforcement personnel and therefore to security. Citizens are asking for normal, nothing else.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u20	Following is the question 3-00200 on the placing in role of the winners of competition in the Armed Forces in 2012. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in advance I would like to point out that, generally speaking, the question of the reductive intervention of the units to be recruited in the competition called for by Senator Cardiello has already been dealt with recently in response to an act by Mr Rosato. Therefore, as already represented in the context of the aforementioned reply, I can only confirm that this issue must be placed in relation to the pressing need to achieve savings as a result of the so-called spending review, provided for by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 30 April 2012, which required all administrations to contribute concretely to the reduction of public expenditure. Consequently, it was inevitable for this administration to intervene drastically, operating an indispensable reduction of the expenses relative to the field of the staff of the Defense, with consequent repercussions also on the total amount of the recruitments previewed in 2012, for the army, the marine and the air force. This reductive intervention obviously involved, to varying degrees, the recruitment of staff of the different roles of the Armed Forces, including also the volunteers in a fixed four-year term, the so-called VFP 4. As regards the substance, it is reiterated that this intervention - which falls within the power of the administration, as provided for in the competition notice - was intended, among other things, to look forward, in the sense of safeguarding, as far as possible, the staff involved, by placing a firm four-year number of units so as to allow the same appropriate transit possibilities in the roles of the permanent service. Having said that, coming to the alleged failure of the winners of the 2012 contest, I assure Senator Cardiello that, according to the indications of the competent Military Staff, all 2,075 VFP 4 winners have been regularly incorporated into the Armed Forces. This happened through two separate moments of entry, respectively on 21 August 2012 (1.375 units) and on 5 March 2013 (700 units). In this respect, it is noted that the reduction of the available posts, making it necessary to amend the enlistment notice, also involved the redefinition of the timing of the subsequent phases of selection and incorporation of candidates.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u24	CARDIELLO (PdL). Madam President, the Undersecretary mentioned the spending review to justify the reduction and rationalization of public expenditure, particularly in the field of defence. I therefore believe it is necessary to say to you, Mr Undersecretary, and to your Ministry that, in fact, the information provided - I know that you are a serious and decent person - does not appear to me, in the sense that, in the state, there are thousands of young people who have brought an appeal to the Lazio Administrative Court in order to obtain an order or, if necessary, a sentence for the Ministry of Defence to comply with the recruitment of these young people. Mr Undersecretary, you are a man from the South, and you know that 80% of young people volunteered annually and four years ago come from the Mezzogiorno of Italy, that is, from areas sadly known for the high rate of organised crime, and these children who have hope for the future and participate in a competition in my opinion cannot be treated in this way. I'll tell you the numbers of the contest and how many and what were hired in the law enforcement, because sometimes you get ridiculed. The Ministry of Defence in October 2011 has launched a competition for 2012 for the recruitment of 3,756 volunteers divided between Navy, Army and Air Force. The posts were even increased and increased to 4.230. Subsequently, suitable candidates in the rankings are reduced to 2,075 seats. Thus, about half of the candidates are excluded from the competition. At this point, I have a problem: is it possible to call a competition for the recruitment of a certain number of people and then expand it and, once the ranking is out, reduce it again by half? I don't understand. When I take off my political robe, I look at the matter as a parent of a child who participates in a contest by spending money, wins it, is declared eligible and then is told that he can no longer leave because the places put in competition have been reduced. But then what happens (and here we enter the stage of ridicule and charade)? In 2013, a similar competition was launched, without prejudice to the ranking of 2.075. I wonder, then: is it conceivable to call a new competition for another 2,000 seats or is it easier, in view of the spending review, to assume the young people suitable results in the previous competition? If we want to apply the spending review, then we should hire the kids suitable results. In this way, savings would be made, because issuing a competition for 2,000 people, in addition to the expenses that children have to pay, involves costs for the state. Wouldn't it be easier to scroll through the rankings and call these guys on duty? So, Mr Undersecretary (I know that thousands of young people are watching us at the moment, because, as you know, there is a voice on the web), I hope that the Ministry of Defence can make a commitment to the children who have been declared fit and are waiting for an immediate response. I therefore ask you to speak with the Minister of Defence so that the ranking can be crossed and these young people are called into service, because many believe in the uniform, they believe in the future of the country. Thank you for your speedy response, but I will ask you for a commitment, even later (I know you are a man of speech). Afterwards we will meet these guys, who besides the damage also had the mockery: they had to anticipate over 600 euros for the recourse to the TAR.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u25	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u26	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-102.ana.u27	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 17 September, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.51 a.m.
