ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Alberti CASELLATI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Colleagues, there is space for the request: the system is open. If you enter the card after it has been closed, you will have the impression that the system does not work, but the system will come back to work when I declare open - which I am doing - the verification of the quorum. I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Council for the Rules of Procedure is convened, so it must be immediately defied. It is impudent of me to defile a Junta presided over by the President of the Senate, but I demean it. For those interested, the quorum is being verified. It is assumed that when you come to the House you have to vote; in order to do so, you have to have a card. The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.40).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00033 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators, 1-00051 (text 2) by Senator Bitonci and other senators, and 1-00060 (text 2) by Senator Tomaselli and other senators, on the boards of directors of publicly owned companies. I call Senator Lucidi to explain motion No 33.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u9	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention to this issue and for the ideas you will wish to make to our debate. Thanks to Mr Fassina for his presence on the benches of the Government. Citizens and friends, today we are debating a very important issue for us in terms of political, economic and industrial policy. This question relates precisely to the ways in which the directors of state-owned companies are selected, evaluated and therefore chosen, among which we find, for the most urgent questions, that of the renewal of the board of directors of Finmeccanica, but also the most embarrassing question, that is, the case of ENI. The lack of transparency in the procedures for appointing boards of state-owned companies is a problem that can no longer be postponed, because we believe it is time to give citizens real power to intervene in the identification of governing bodies of primary importance. I would like to stress at once that our initiative has not gone unnoticed and that in recent weeks there has been a stir of news and facts about it. It has not gone unnoticed to the industrial world, because at the time of the publication of our motion we received support and above all valuable information from a group of workers of a company connected to Finmeccanica, who have self-defined themselves "clean dependents." We have also received reports and comments from employees of ENAV and Selex and also on Fincantieri. Finally, it did not go unnoticed by the new Government, which, as reported by the "Il Sole 24 ORE" on 29 April, requested the postponement of the appointment of some members of the board of directors of Finmeccanica, to guarantee transparency of this phase, in order to allow the Government itself to intervene with its proposals. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, bears witness to the great general interest in this matter. Until now, we know that the Finmeccanica Board of Directors has extended the appointment until next July and that we have three motions on the agenda to discuss. But let's come to Finmeccanica's drama. (Brusio). President. - I call my colleagues to silence. [[Call the president back.]] I would like to talk first of all about the Finmeccanica drama, which is not only given by judicial investigations, which will take their proper course, but also by the paralysis that they cause in the most delicate and strategic Italian industrial group. The drama is not only having a former president and CEO, such Giuseppe Orsi, investigated for international corruption, money laundering and illicit financing to parties, but also having a government paralyzed by embarrassment and unable to make a decision. Yet we are talking about 70,000 jobs, linked to the production of aircraft, electronics, system electronics, power plants and trains. So today in this House we all have a great opportunity to show that politics is still able to protect national interests and citizens all; interests that are ascribed to the category of common goods, not already essential in their generic sense, but fundamental and basic, as our Constitution reminds us in its cry for openness. And I use the word cry not by chance, gentlemen, because an unawaited principle can only be and turn into a cry of ransom. It is possible, rightly, to speak of the common good, because with state participations we tell an all-Italian story that was born in the early twentieth century, develops and consolidates with the economic boom and then decays in the years of the speculative financial era. Finmeccanica herself was born in the very first years of the post-war period, in 1948, as well as ENI (1953). Today we are called to a great act of responsibility towards this common heritage which is the state participations. But not only that. We can also be an example and guide for the thousands of local authorities' holdings. Let me then go into more detail, remembering that Finmeccanica, before the 31 companies with state participation to renew its board of directors, is one of the most important industrial realities of the country, present in strategic sectors, able to operate and compete in international areas. The holding company is active in the fields of aviation, helicopter, electronics applied to satellite and telecommunications technologies, transport and energy network control systems and electrical energy production equipment. But above all, Finmeccanica has a recognized and consolidated technological leadership in the design, development and production of missile systems, torpedoes, naval artillery and armored vehicles. These aspects, in particular the last one, determine a condition of maximum transparency in the management functions of this company. The same condition of necessity is also found in ENI. The National Hydrocarbon Agency, created by Enrico Mattei, is the largest and most strategic Italian company, with an annual turnover of 100 billion euros, 79,000 employees, operating in 85 countries mainly in the energy sector. According to the ranking of the companies drawn up by the magazine "Fortune," it is the seventeenth in the world and is one of the top ten international oil companies. Managing Director and Managing Director of ENI, since June 2005, is Paolo Scaroni. The Government has promised new criteria of appointment for the directors of public companies to introduce transparency and merit and to prevent the pillars of what remains of the Italian industry (ENI, ENEL, Finmeccanica) from being delivered into the hands of incapable with influential friends. This is good news; however, recent news has shown that politics has been completely incapable of making such important operational decisions. In fact, Paolo Scaroni, CEO of ENI, is investigated for international corruption, but no one has asked for his resignation. Those with good memory will also remember that the so-called First Republic crumbled due to the bribes of Enimont. In 1992, during the period of Clean Hands, Scaroni ended up in handcuffs, and in 1996 he settled a sentence for a year and four months in prison for bribes of several hundred million lire, paid to the Italian Socialist Party to obtain the award of contracts to ENEL, a company then led by the same manager. Finally, in ENI's May assembly, the Cultural Foundation for Ethics Responsibility (Ethical Bank), one of ENI's shareholders, brought to the attention the suspected corruption in Algeria that involved ENI and subsidiary Saipem at the beginning of the year. According to the reconstructions of the Milan Public Prosecutor's Office, the ENI Group would have paid around 200 million euros to "facekeepers and exponents of the Algerian Government" to secure orders (including the construction of a pipeline in the North East of the country) from 2006 to 2010. Part of the money would then come back to the accounts of some Italian managers of the group. In addition to the moral profile, it is also worth highlighting some technical notes on the ENI issue. For example, we can point to questionable managerial choices, such as, for example, the conclusion of short-sighted contracts of the take or pay type, without real distribution forecasts, which suggest unwise choices of managerial levels. Not to mention the fact that the contracts are at prices tied to the oil market, which, speaking of natural gas, looks almost like an oxymoron. In the light of the appeals and requests that come from many sectors of public opinion and civil society, but also in order to avoid the repetition of episodes that have seen the involvement of part of the management of Finmeccanica and ENI in issues that certainly appear censorable from the point of view of the opportunity and able to put at risk not only the credibility of the entire managerial structure but also the competitiveness of some of the most important Italian companies, it is still possible to give the country an important signal of discontinuity, putting in the foreground the need for a strong transparency in the procedure of appointing the members of the boards of directors of these, as of the most important Italian companies. Finmeccanica, ENI and all the others, in pain of their own decline, have the extreme need to protect the corporate image, the goodness of the brand and the seriousness of the industrial structure and cannot be guided in the future by a management that operates countertrend with respect to the correct management of the company. Then the general situation becomes clear, and I would like to point out the premises for the requests for this motion. These premises can be limited above all in terms of commitment to transparency and choices that lead to real, equal opportunities. However, commitments that we must be able to turn into real opportunities. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we must commit the Government to the discipline of the requirements for the application and their publication also on the Ministry's website; to the appointment by means of transparent examinations of applications received with public invitation always on the Ministry's website, and after publication of the CVs received; to make public the curricula of candidates also to the main stakeholders of the company; to allow the verification of governmental proposals of appointment also to the opinion of the competent Commissions, overcoming the attempt to make the establishment of committees of essays in real time become practice. Today we have four points to discuss together, and I very much hope that we will also approve together, quickly to give a great signal of methodological innovation in our country; to show that, in an analysis that we might call political-anthropological, the pre 5 Star political era is finally closed, and that we will arrive in this way, perhaps one day, to apply an important democratic principle, and for us fundamental. I am talking about the principle that something that concerns everyone must be decided by everyone. This is in order to allow now some of the most important Italian companies to resume their history in ways inspired by principles of equality and honesty, that will not be able to do them, but above all to honor us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u10	I call Senator Volpi to explain motion 51 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u11	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, I would like to thank you for your presence because your presence is a qualified one, also for personal history and not just for role; therefore, I am sure that we will understand some passages, which are not simply the ones explained within the device but are part of a somewhat broader reasoning. In fact, the request contained in the device is very simple: that there is transparency in understanding the requirements for appointments, transparency in understanding what the curricula are; transparency in knowing who is appointed; a kind of who's who of the policy of public presence within companies: the "chi" is who with great difficulty always succeeds to have. In the previous legislature - perhaps you will remember, having followed, albeit from the outside, these particular arguments - you also tried to make a concrete mapping, and not simply referring to the 31 direct holdings that the Treasury has within companies, a series of conditions of presence within a large, huge perhaps, series of subsidiaries and participants. Going back with memory, and anticipating that this society is no longer there, a few years ago I happened to see a society of the State, which, among other things, operated in a particular area of Italy - I mean not many years ago, Deputy Minister, about seven-eight - that alone held something like 80 participations, of which at least half control. Obviously, in that company there were advisors sent by the Treasury, or rather by the parent, presidents and managing directors. We must also try to understand, as in the last parliamentary term, what is the form of participation, at the level of management, of the companies that are controlled. You teach me this, and you know that, for now, by norm and also by custom, the Treasury itself within the boards of directors of the various companies even indicates employees, officials and managers: many executives are both within the boards of directors and in the college of mayors, perhaps even as presidents of the college itself. In the same way, many employees, officials and public managers are, for example, presidents of the remuneration committees; therefore, it would be interesting to analyse this profile too, i.e. the fact that they do not take remuneration as directors but instead take them as presidents of the internal colleges. With regard to the more general reasoning, that is, our demand for transparency, I am making a model example, indeed a photograph. Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, if the unsuspecting tourist went to the Borghese Gallery at 9 a.m. (in front of which I think we all went, with our little purse, to the House or some other commitment) he could say: See these going back and forth with blue machines. Members of the Senate, like those of the House, know that those blue cars are not on top of politicians, if you exclude some service cars that bring the Minister or the Undersecretary. But we know something. We know, for example, that most of the machines that are seen in front of the Galleria Borghese in the morning are the representation, the indication of that subpower with respect to which, moreover, we ask transparency; subpower divided, more or less, in this way: some managers go to do something in the office; another good part is dedicated to what is a pregnant activity in the administration of the companies (a conference, very often); others, doing a job however preparatory to their company, sit in the antechamber of a minister, or go to do their work of relationship or contact, perhaps with some authority. Mr. Deputy Minister, you know like I do that we don't know them. The friends and colleagues of the 5 Star Movement have proposed the motion indicating names of companies and people who normally read in the front pages of the newspapers for economic reasons (on "Il Sole 24 Ore") or, unfortunately, for fact of the news. But who are all the others? There's someone who can Explain it to us? There is the possibility of making a prompt transition to transparency, which is what we simply believe in, by publishing on the Internet (a means now normal) who has been appointed, who should be in charge? Ours is just a demand for transparency: I think it is not frontal. There is one last step, Deputy Minister, which concerns compensation. You have already put a limit on compensation: we try again; we know that it has never been easy and that, on the contrary, there have been propositions for which certain situations cannot be touched, but I think that the parties that will be responsible for indicating (I have seen that there are little sheets photographed in some newspaper, but I do not want to make illations, because we all know how things are) will at least be able to recontract the commitment on the amount of emoluments of the state managers who, as you know, are always the same. Can we take as a reference a dignified fact such as the one we propose, namely that of the majority shareholder? Can we ask that state managers do not take more than the President-in-Office of the Council takes, or is he not dignified? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Rizzotti]] Take it as you wish, Mr Minister, and take it as a provocation, but in our opinion it is a given from which you can start. I'll make one final point. We have proposed a motion of transparency. We think that it can be appreciated, we say it even having experienced events from which we have differentiated, but that - unlike others - we do not pretend not to know. Making motions containing too many specifications, so much so as to become portraits, I think it's dangerous. It is true that we left a card so that we could play with the Government the sensitivity to some choices, but if I were you, Mr Fassina, a reasoning on the biographies written between the lines I would do so. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Rizzotti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u12	I would like to say that a new text has been tabled in motion No 60 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u13	I call Senator Tomaselli to explain motion No. 60 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, motion No 60 (text 3), which I am preparing to explain, as my fellow Members have done before me, is speaking on a subject of great impact on public opinion, because it concerns the governance of state-owned companies, in this case through the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. Some of these companies, in recent years, have shown extraordinarily important performances on the reference markets and constitute a heritage of the production and industrial system of our country: they are therefore excellences of Italy, which represent a leadership not only in national markets, but also in international ones. This is a complex subject, which arises between the discretion of politics and the government and the necessary demand, which rises impetuously from public opinion, to manage also passages so delicate and important in the name of transparency and respect as punctual as possible of professional profiles. In recent years the process of disposal of public participations to all the companies that have relevance in the economic, productive and industrial fabric of the Country has led to a strong reduction in the presence of the State, while retaining this power of direction and appointment of the directors. The subject therefore arises in terms of topicality, with respect to the necessary assumption of responsibilities that I believe to be the subject of politics and its institutions, starting with Parliament, which can and must offer the Government and the Ministries directly involved with specific guidelines, with respect to the criteria and procedures that go and which can be followed. We are talking about important companies, on which a great deal of legislative activity has taken place in recent years, which has greatly transformed their legal characteristics, governance and internal organisation. These are companies on which they have impacted norms, which concern more overall the public perimeter, starting with the interventions of the so-called spending review, which have therefore voted and inspired some choices to the principles of efficiency and effectiveness, to be achieved also with the reduction of costs, both public and placed in the hands of such significant companies, as in this case. For example, consider the question of the limits on the number of directors, the ceilings imposed on their remuneration and the reporting and advertising obligations on public companies and public partners. The framework, both regulatory and legal, has therefore evolved strongly over the last few years and represents the basis to which we are referring today, also in measuring the discretion that the institutions, and with them politics, can and must claim, but within a framework of guidelines that today, with this debate, Parliament - perhaps for the first time - intends to address punctuality. With the motion that we have tabled - at my first signature and by Senator Pelino and other senators - we ask the Government, as far as we are concerned, for example, for a direct commitment in identifying precise criteria for the composition of the administrative bodies of companies controlled directly or indirectly by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, so that in addition to ensuring adequate gender representation - I would like to remind you - in line with the most advanced and stringent legislation adopted by our country in recent times, the requirements of transparency and certainty in the criteria and procedures of appointment and decadence of the members of the same administrative bodies of the companies we are talking about are also assured. In particular, the current system already provides for compliance with the requirements of good repute, alongside which it is necessary, in our opinion, to introduce additional requirements and limitations to the appointment of the members of the boards of directors, with reference in particular to the subjective requirements, in the case of situations of ineligibility for those who have ongoing criminal procedures at their expense or who have received convictions. In our opinion, it is also necessary to define specific situations of incompatibility, starting with those who hold positions in local authorities, in the regions, on the boards of directors, in the Italian Parliament itself or in the European Parliament itself. In addition to the eligibility and compatibility requirements, we believe that there are other fundamental ones: I want to insist on this point, because I believe that it is the heart of the act of direction that we have presented, on which we really hope that there will be accession not only by the Government, but also and above all by the whole House. I refer to the requirements of a professional nature, in relation to the specific positions to be held, such as, as an explanation, previous experience for a reasonable number of positions in similar responsibilities, experience in the industrial sector of reference, appropriate authority, verification of reputation and recognition on the reference markets, absence of conflicts of interest or accumulation of positions in competing companies. The motion expressly indicates the activation, moreover, of a comparative assessment of the required professional requirements. This seems to me to be an element of great innovation on such a sensitive subject and on which I repeat that I want to insist, when we are talking about comparative assessment of the professional requirements required. On this point I really hope for the broadest consensus. Obviously there are parts that are absolutely acceptable and others that are less, but I want to say to colleagues of the League and the 5 Star Movement that our motion on this point in particular, if granted to me, goes far beyond an invitation to the Government to discipline and make public the criteria that will then be identified: we already identify here a part of these criteria and ask the Government to activate procedures for comparative evaluation of curricula or in any case of those who will manifest interest and willingness to compete to occupy such delicate places of command in the public participating companies, which are, I repeat, of excellence and particularly significant. As regards, in particular, the procedures for appointing members of the company's administrative bodies, we believe that certain transparency and advertising requirements must be respected; this is also a subject that we share with the other motions, but we allow ourselves to say something more and to identify a procedure, through the publication on the websites of the ministries concerned and the controlling and controlled companies. In short, it is an assumption of full responsibility and a real challenge to accept the theme of transparency and verification of the decision-making processes that preside over such significant choices. I also consider it important, in order to verify compliance with the criteria and procedures laid down for nominations, that they are subject to monitoring, through the conduct, by the Treasury Department, of a kind of qualitative and aptitude-based investigation of applications and other availabilities, following which the appointments themselves may be submitted in turn to a guarantee committee which has the character of stability and impartiality and is competent in the matters we are talking about here. The issue of transparency and verification of the requirements is, in short, cross-referenced with the deep one that is the real challenge of our motion, namely the strict professional verification of the requirements. Finally, it is also important that we make a constant informational relationship with Parliament, through the relevant parliamentary committees. We hope that the Government will accept the guidelines suggested in this motion of ours and that the commitments that we have set out here by this act can also be taken into account by other public administrations. We therefore ask the Government that there should also be a subsequent commitment on this last point. At the same time, given the strong innovative footprint that this motion intends to entrust to such a delicate subject and in the light of the efforts made here to define explicit criteria and procedures binding and transparent, I really want to hope that there will be the widest cohesion is coincidence of views, as well as the broadest consensus on the part of the entire Senate on this so detailed and demanding text that we have deposited. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u15	I declare the debate open. Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u16	Mr President, first of all, I would like to clarify one aspect which is preparatory to the various motions presented here. We are faced with a typical hot cloth; we are faced with the cure of the symptom and not with the eradication of the cause of evil. The timing is such that politics can give signs of transparency, competence and moralization. All this is well, but the real cause of the evils generated by the participations of the State entrepreneur - and I hope that Minister Fassina pays some attention - is to be found in Article 41 of the Constitution: The private economic initiative is free. The Constituents, however, did not want to stop at this first paragraph which, by itself, I consider exhaustive, but wanted, in that climate of compromise between the greatest leftist party and the secular and Christian-demochrist forces, to add: It cannot be carried out in conflict with social usefulness or in such a way as to harm security, freedom and human dignity. The law determines the appropriate programmes and controls so that public and private economic activity can be addressed and coordinated for social purposes. It is from this second paragraph that the sad history of the entrepreneurial state is born. Those who have read the Almighty State of Ludwig von Mises know well how much the Entrepreneur State has cost. Even today, at a time when public debt, which is largely the son of the State's dissensible participation in the free economic initiative, its interference, the monopolies that the State demands whenever it tries to be an entrepreneur, even if it does not have any reference to the law of the free economy and without any criterion of third-party control of productivity, merit, efficiency and economics, we are here to legislate and regulate with motions the way in which the boards of directors are composed. We are here to administer a moralistic aspirin to a serious patient, which is largely due to 2,000 billion euros of debt. Well, Luigi Sturzo, back in 1954, admonished in this House about the three evil beasts that would starve and reduce Italian parliamentary democracy: the statism, the party-cracy and the waste of public money. These three elements are all contained, if not embodied themselves, in the management of monopolies or State participations in the free initiative. What about the golden share, the state's claim to indicate, coordinate, plan, as in the most biegious totalitarian regimes where planning was the leading political instrument, which distinguished this type of society and political state? What about a state that wants to have a majority even when it is in the minority within the boards of directors? Vice Minister Fassina is here to cheer instead of listening to me as I try to tell him something he should know or should learn, if he wants to get to the real shore of liberalism. Mr FASSINA, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. Listen, listen! D'ANNA (PdL). He should first of all make amends to a vision of society in which instead of choosing Philadelphia he chose Paris with our Constitution: we chose not a citizen who uses the State, but a oppressive and pervasive state that claims to be an entrepreneur, a doctor, a pedagogue and any other activity in the field of the economy through state participations. Whatever motion we are going to approve, please know, my fellow senators, that this is a mere facade operation that corrects the symptoms, but does not cure the causes. It is statism, it is the function of the State in the enterprise the real enemy of economic freedom. When this dichotomy between freedom and liberalism was a source of debate between Cross and Einaudi - Baron Compagna perhaps would say it better than me - the latter said at Cross that the first of the freedoms was to undertake, the freedom to do; this cannot be borrowed neither conditioned nor despondent nor coordinated by a State that as a free expression of free will was not born to be an entrepreneur except to make clientelism, wasting of the public money, occupation of places of power and under-government by political forces, squandering resources that in the hands of true private initiative would bring wealth to this nation. I would not delay, as the colleague of the 5 Star Movement has done, in going to highlight the steals and distortions of the system. The so-called First Republic has gone home for a bribe of 300 billion lire, but no one in this nation has yet denounced and paid the 2,000 billion lire that the State will waste selling and buying from Gardini the Enimont shares, just because the latter wanted to make the Italian chemistry efficient closing all the decoction industries that served as social shock absorbers. So what do we want to talk about in here today? Do we want to talk about the ILVA, the Telecom, everything that the State has abandoned and sold out with Enimont and that would be ready to buy back if these types of areas and interventions of the State itself questioned the sub-government and the sub-power that comes from the State's participation in these companies? How can you, my fellow senators, fail to see that the first and true cause of the breakdown of the state's accounts is the State itself, its claim to be an entrepreneur, to be everything that was not supposed to be? Well, the Government of the broad understandings I think makes sense if it uses the vast parliamentary consensus it has to eradicate the causes of evil, not to make palliative wraps or cures to a nation by now agonizing. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u17	Senator D'Anna, I would like to remind you that the Baron Compagna remains for us Senator Compagna, because the 14th transitional and final provision of the Constitution no longer recognizes any noble title. [[Applause from the PD and LN-Aut groups]] Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u18	Mr President, I would like to make a few brief comments on this subject, which really deserves a different attention and not only because of the way in which directors of subsidiaries and subsidiaries are appointed, but above all because of the very large size of this category of substantially public entities, even if they often form part of private bodies. I'm not sure I found the right page on the Ministry of Public Service website, I don't know if the government updates the data or I don't have much familiarity with the computer, but I think I've seen that the data on the government website dates back to 2009. It reads on this site: In the context of the Transparency Operation, the Ministry of Public Administration and Public Innovation online lists the consortia and companies with total or partial participation by the public administrations............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr President, if these are the data (which accidentally, but perhaps I'm wrong, I managed to recover within a site updated to four years ago, we are talking about 2,365 consortia, 4,741 companies participated by the public administration and above all 24,713 representatives, i.e. management advisors in various capacities engaged in the government of this Cyclopic-sized monster, which might perhaps have only one eye or more but in any case it is always gigantic. The figure is more concerned about the territorial structure of our participating and controlled companies and the number of consortia. I imagined, President, that they were mainly located in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, where they are known to all customer practices, the degeneration of public administration and the greater solidity of the party government; on the contrary, we discover that the vast number of subjects of this type is allocated in the Centre-North, rich and powerful, that is, that of the private initiative guaranteed by Article 41 of the aforementioned Constitution. In essence, we have the largest number of subjects of this nature in Lombardy, Piedmont, Emilia Romagna and Veneto, while the minor number is found in Lazio, Sardinia and Sicily. I went to print out a few pages, but then I stopped, because the list is 1,295 pages. I haven't even printed out the list of those who govern this monster, at least in 2009 (the 2010 data, in fact, maybe we don't have them yet). Some of them have a pay of zero (no one knows: either they have not communicated it, or they perceive nothing), while others have significant emoluments to govern structures whose function, consistency, quality and usefulness is all to be verified. Mr President, I would like to make these comments because I am convinced that, if used in an appropriate way in the cases in which it is needed, this is a valuable instrument in our system; what we cannot tolerate, however, is the multiplication of public entities, those legitimately deriving from the legal basis of our system: our public administrations and our local authorities. We are abolishing the Provinces, because they are an overplus, but if we have 25,000 individuals with a private form who do everything and more, who are not subject to serious control and who guarantee customer appointments, then what are we talking about? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why abolish a democratic way of selecting a leadership group that must govern the problems of a territory, interests and aspirations and meet community needs? Mr President, we are interested, but - and I say this to my colleagues in the Five Star Movement Group, but also to the other motion-makers - we have not tabled any motions. We share most of the things that have been raised, including the gender issue, which should then be seen in detail. Perhaps the most important functions, in the most important societies, are not entrusted to women, but - perhaps - among the 25,000 directors of various titles dispersed in this cyclopic and numerous system of societies there are also women who administer (and perhaps also manage well in the realities where they do); to us, however, it interests more, namely that the selections take place according to the principle that must preside over all public functions: I refer to the principle that that function is attributed in the interest of the community and not in the interest of a group or of the recipient. In other words, it cannot be a prize for political fidelity or a prize for militancy in a party, or a prize - or rather an opportunity - for income on account of any favour obtained; let alone it must be an instrument of government of public affairs for purposes directly linked to political formation, to a group of interests or to a natural person. In other words, we think that a path of moralization must go on, without any hesitation. I say this to the Deputy Minister: perhaps it would be worth understanding the true consistency of this system and, once we have the data, having a more accomplished debate on this subject (maybe on a government report).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u19	Senator Munerato is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today our country system presents, as some of the motions presented recall, an important number of companies of which the Ministry of Economy, on behalf of the State, holds partial or total participations. In fact, this is not an exceptionality because, as in the vast majority of European countries, as some of the motions presented recall, many infrastructure services and systems have been implemented on the initiative and with funds of the community, in order to provide our country with the necessary conditions to offer all citizens the opportunity to benefit from it. Alongside this, account has been taken, over the years, of the opportunity to support certain productive sectors considered important and strategic. Moreover, our country holds these participations without breaking any Community provisions, on a level playing field with other European partners. The regulatory framework for publicly-owned companies is complex because of the different profiles involved. The indirect effects of the rules on the Stability Pact and the spending review, which affect public bodies participating in company capital, overlap with company law. In addition, some sector regulations, mainly of Community origin, affect competition and the liberalisation of certain services. It must be recognised that in recent years all companies in general, and those involved by the State and public bodies in particular, have taken a long way towards greater transparency, including by using the opportunities for greater usability of data allowed by the Internet portals. Almost all of these companies have created systems for the wide dissemination of their strategic choices and budgetary data. Efforts have also been made - and I believe this is the main subject of this debate today - to offer public guarantees on the choice and adequacy of their management. On this issue, companies, especially those operating on competitive markets, have done even more than required by law, for the very simple reason that this allows, in relation to partners, investors, and competitors themselves, to appear stronger and more credible than the markets in which they operate. The powers of appointment by the public shareholder and the directors of the participating companies are governed at a general level by the Civil Code, as well as by a number of additional provisions. First, the general rules (Article 2449 of the Civil Code) provide that if the State or public bodies have participations in a public limited liability company which does not use the risk capital market, the statutes may empower them to appoint directors, mayors or members of the supervisory board, in proportion to their share in the share capital. It also provides that directors, mayors, or members of the supervisory board appointed by the State and public bodies may be revoked only by the bodies which appointed them and have the rights and obligations of members appointed by the assembly. Directors may also not be appointed for a period of more than three years and shall expire on the date of the meeting convened for approval of the financial statements relating to the last financial year of their term of office. The mayors, i.e. the members of the supervisory board, shall then remain in office for three years and shall expire on the date of the meeting convened for approval of the budget for the third year of their office. Finally, for companies that use the stock market, it is possible to reserve shares provided with capital rights, or even administrative rights, but not voting in the general meeting of shareholders, to the State or participating entities. Some important measures have been adopted by the legislator to ensure that public companies are oriented to efficiency criteria, penalising directors who do not act with competence and capacity; it is an example of the prediction that it cannot be appointed administrator of an institution, institution, public company, company with total or partial public capital who, having held in the previous five years similar positions, has closed three consecutive years in loss (Article 1, paragraph 734, of Law no. 296 of 2006). This is what the law is able to do in compliance with management choices that, if they have to be efficient, they must be able to be carried out by the directors who take responsibility for them. I find it presumptuous that some of the motions put forward accuse the State of little transparency on this issue. We know, in fact, that the main data relating to publicly owned companies are available and usable in different forms, including the Internet channel. The list of public limited liability companies participated by State directors is contained in the general statement of the State, in the assets account (see Appendix 4). As regards gender equality in state-owned companies or public bodies, Law No 120 of 12 July 2011 on equal access to the bodies of listed companies, aimed at overcoming the problem of the low presence of women in the top bodies of commercial companies and in particular on the boards of directors of companies listed on the Stock Exchange, provides that the provisions provided for by it also apply to publicly controlled companies, while the detailed rules are entrusted to a specific regulation, with the aim of ensuring a uniform discipline for all the companies concerned. This regulation is that adopted by decree of the President of the Republic of 30 November 2012, n. 251; it is entrusted with the discipline of supervision over the application of the provisions introduced, as well as the forms and terms of the measures to be taken and the modalities of substitution of the fallen components. In particular, this Regulation requires, as is the case with private companies and the statutes of unlisted public companies, to provide for arrangements for the appointment of administrative and supervisory bodies, if they are collegiate, to ensure that the less represented gender obtains at least one third of the members of each body. In such cases, the statutes also govern the formation of lists in application of the criterion of gender sharing, providing for the election and extraction of the individual components suitable to ensure compliance with the statutory provisions. Finally, we come to the criteria for recruiting those who will have to represent the State in the participating bodies; it is clear that this is the key issue. The competence, independence, professionalism and integrity of these people must be assured with the utmost scrupulousness, but - let me say - I do not think that these characteristics are better guaranteed with the web races on the model of the "quirinaria" so praised by Grillo, that we have then discovered to be a flop from the point of view of participation, without going into the background and the turnaround as soon as the candidates proved not aligned with the mentor. Already today, pursuant to Article 18, paragraph 2, of Decree-Law No 112 of 25 June 2008, converted, with amendments, by Law No 133 of 2008, the companies with total public participation or control adopt, for the recruitment of staff and for the assignment of assignments criteria and methods respectful of the principles, also of Community derivation, transparency, advertising and impartiality. With the commitments set out in our motion, we propose to strengthen the mechanisms of transparency and selection, without running out of ridicule or populism. In particular, we propose to commit the Government: to regulate and to make public - where it has not already done so - also in compliance with the provisions contained in the regulations referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic 30 November 2012, n. 251, the requirements required for the nomination of members of the boards of directors of companies with total public participation or control; to adopt any appropriate initiative, including of a regulatory nature, aimed at providing, if not already provided, the submission of governmental proposals for the appointment of members of the boards of directors of companies with total public participation or control to the opinion of the competent parliamentary committees; finally, to adopt any appropriate initiative, including of a regulatory nature, aimed at making consultable the curricula of the individual candidates, so as to allow all interested parties, such as employees, customers and suppliers of the same companies, to be aware of the requirements possessed by the candidates. They all seem to me to be proposals of absolute common sense, in substantial continuity with initiatives already undertaken in this respect by previous governments and absolutely appropriate and acceptable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u21	Senator Olivero is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motions we are debating today are particularly important. They are for various reasons at the heart of the political debate, and our fellow citizens are well aware of them, and they call on us to be consistent and courageous. In particular, these motions invest the delicate relationship between politics and the economy, they invest the forms by which the State intends to act within it through the many enterprises that have been promoted by it over time, specifically concerning that great theme which is the function of direction that the State must exercise, in the fullness of its functions, in view of the common good. In addition to this, the motions concern the issue of transparency, the competence of administrators and respect for gender representation: many crucial issues - we know well - in the debate, but also for the development of our country, to get out of a critical situation that is not only of economic crisis, but of the social and moral crisis of the country. The Italian economy is characterized by a widespread presence, of particularly significant size compared to the international framework, of participating companies, the result of a historical evolution based on the management of some services and the support of some productive sectors considered strategic, not only for economic purposes, but also to guarantee essential services to all citizens. This corresponds to a very heterogeneous regulatory framework: the general regime defined by the Civil Code overlaps a series of special provisions introduced through legislative actions that have followed over time. As regards appointments to participating companies, therefore, it is desirable, and this is the reason for today's debate, to pursue criteria of transparency, publicity and impartiality, through the screening of curricula and their publication, in order to exercise control by Parliament and all citizens, and the choice of competent personalities who do not enter into situations of conflict of interest, in order to avoid the risk of dangerous commissions between politics and economy, which undermine the pursuit of the supreme public interest. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, to give a signal to the country in order to promote its competitiveness, putting in the foreground the need for transparency in the nomination procedures, rewarding the merit in the selection of candidates, prohibiting the accumulation of posts, placing a ceiling on salaries and above all, in cases of confirmation, making the appointment subordinate to the evaluation of results. In recent years, through various regulatory interventions, measures have been introduced (i.e. companies not listed and controlled by the Ministry of Economy and Finance) aimed at achieving objectives of economic management, as well as the correctness, transparency and functionality of corporate bodies. Moreover, the decree of the President of the Republic No 251 of 2012 on equal access to administrative and supervisory bodies in unlisted companies controlled by the public administration provided that at least one third of the members of each social body belong to the least represented gender, providing that for the first renewal after the entry into force of this regulation this threshold would be at least one fifth: this is an important prerequisite for breaking down a very widespread trend, a situation that occurs despite the fact that excellence in women is demonstrated widely. In fact, still only one woman appears at the presidency among the main participating companies of the MEF which are head of the central state; no female managing director in the bodies participated by public non-economic bodies, ministries and regions with special status. In the administrations that hold participations in consortia or companies, the female presence is really limited: only 13% of the members. There are no women among the presidents of the bodies involved by tax agencies, State Monopolies, bodies under Article 70, research institutions and bodies and Ministries. Excluding the bodies participating in the National Health Service, in which women reach (indeed) 14% of the attendance, in the remaining participating bodies the presence of women in the office of president varies from a minimum of 4% to a maximum of 7%. No female CEO is still included in the bodies participating in research institutions and bodies, ministries, provinces and universities, while in the remaining participating bodies the CEO women are between 8 and 10 percent. I would also like to remind you that, in implementation of the delegation contained in the so-called anti-corruption law approved by the Monti Government (Law No. 190 of 2012), legislative decree No. 39 of 2013 was issued, which intervenes in the matter of inconferibility and incompatibility of tasks with public administrations and private bodies under public control. However, the reform process initiated, which I mentioned the important steps, must undoubtedly be completed through measures that reward the transparency and quality of the methods of indicating the members of the administrative bodies from the point of view of good repute, in order to ensure the protection of the public interest, the proper management of resources, the defence of the image of the country. The degree of discretion in the designation of components must be balanced through procedures to ensure that selection is guided by absolutely meritorious criteria relating to professional skills and experience, thus excluding any conditioning, even less of a political nature. If anti-corruption policies, in this and in other areas, were successful, we would see the growth of citizens' confidence in each other and in public administration. It would increase confidence in the institutions about the possibility of relying on their own merits, which is particularly important at a time of crisis like this. In order to do this we agree that the strict requirements of good repute already laid down are necessary and the introduction of a specific cause of ineligibility or automatic forfeiture in the course of a mandate that excludes the presence by the administrative bodies of members in respect of which a decree has been issued of referral to trial for certain serious cases of criminal importance, such as, for example, crimes against public administration, public faith, property, public order and the public economy in tax and bankruptcy matters. As well as the limitations already established in existing legislation, such as the exclusion of the appointment as members of the administrative bodies, of persons who are members of the Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council of a Region or of an autonomous Province or even of local authorities with more than 15,000 inhabitants, remain firm. The process of rationalization and containment of public expenditure must be accompanied by a process of moralisation involving such companies. It is a shared assessment that the current discipline of companies with public participation is inadequate, but there is a serious discussion for the desirable, general reordering of the matter; among the many issues, the regulatory disorder, the prevailing unitary approach to a category of legal entities that homogeneous is not, the lack of the most innovative reforms attempted, a jurisprudence sometimes contradictory. Mr President, I am about to conclude. These very serious positive reasons call for us to take another step forward. It is for this reason that Chosen Civics intends to propose to all colleagues to consider in particular two amendments tabled to motion No 60. The first (60.2) provides for a limit of three mandates in the renewal of the position in the administrative bodies of the same company, except for a reasoned derogation from the Government, in order to avoid - which has happened several times - that they remain in apical positions figures that no longer have the necessary requirements. The second (60.1) provides for the need to spend at least one year from the end of the parliamentary term before taking up positions in the participating companies. What I said earlier largely justifies this proposal. These two amendments are fundamental to us. We ask colleagues to consider them carefully, because without their approval much of the scope of the motions presented today would be in vain. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Bisinella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u23	Since we have three motions and a fair number of amendments to consider, I would like to remind the next Members that if we do not give ourselves a minimum of self-quotas we risk not voting even this evening. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mandelli]] He is enlisted to speak Senator Romani Paolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u24	Mr President, I shall try to be within the limits, but I shall make a fairly quick and brief speech. I must confess that I have decided to speak because I have some concerns, which I would like to express to this House. Surely the text of the majority motion is largely renewed in relation to its initial wording and is now largely acceptable. We know how difficult childbirth was; so let's say we're content. I turn to Vice Minister Fassina, although, unfortunately for him, he is very busy modifying - I think - the motion with colleagues of the 5 Star Movement. (The Deputy Minister Fassina speaks to the Senators Lucidi and Bocchino).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u25	Colleagues, the Deputy Minister should listen to the speeches of the debate. I'm really mad at you, colleagues, I'm sorry. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Senator Romani rightly requests the attention of the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u26	I would like to make a few comments based on the motions that have been tabled. The first is that ours is the second manufacturing country in Europe, with exports worth half of those in Germany. Basically there are four pillars on which our country lives as an industrial system: the small and medium-sized enterprises (4.5 million companies we know); the large industrial enterprises, of which the majority rightly remembers also the fields of activity (32 companies, which are participated by the Treasury, operating in strategic sectors, such as insurance, banking, postal, infrastructure, transport, defence, energy and services); then we have the processes of internationalization, in which those 4,5 million small and medium-sized enterprises, but above all the large enterprises intervene; therefore, the field of energy, in which there are still large enterprises participated by the State. If there is one problem that has always existed, it is that this industrial system has never been able to represent itself in its integrity and entirety, both at national and international level, at European level and at non-European level. The government, however, is always required to make industrial strategies for development, for growth, and we make legislation in this direction. So, as far as I can see, this means that the government, controlled by this Parliament, is delegated to define the industrial strategies of our country. Now, if 32 large companies are involved by the state and operate in the sectors I have just described, it is imaginable to think that these companies are in line with the indications that the Government and Parliament give in terms of industrial strategies and that the men who lead these companies are obedient, disciplined, moving within the lines that are defined by the Government. This has not happened and hardly ever happens, and Vice Minister Fassina knows it well. What worries me is that in the majority motion it is written that the Minister of Economy gives consequent indications to the representatives of the Ministry in the assemblies, that they configure themselves as acts of high administration: which means that the leaders indicated by the Ministry of Economy give to their companies (they represent, they lead, they manage and they guide) indications that come from the Ministry of Economy. I am not sure that this has always happened; on the contrary, I say this to the new Deputy Minister Fassina, we have constantly clashed with a bureaucratic inertia that has belonged to that Ministry, and that has often not allowed us to define these issues. We often found ourselves defining industrial strategies that were not observed; compared to certain indications that were given, and that went in the direction of the country's growth and development, the Ministry of Economy was not always up to the level. I personally did not feel the need for a motion, but it was tabled and today's drafting is acceptable: it has been agreed and is largely innovative compared to the first version. There is a last step, however, which concerns me even more, Mr President: it is when, at the time when it is said that it is appropriate to ensure... that the selection is carried out exclusively on the basis of assessments related to professional skills and experience (...), it is added: "excludes in this way the risk of political conditioning". What does that mean? Don't we make an industrial strategy? Doesn't the good policy we think we're representing make strategies? I want good politics to be conditioned on the big companies in this country and I demand that the leaders indicated by the Ministry of Economy in these companies represent the good politics and the conditions that good politics is able to give. Are we just bad politics? I don't know. Do we want to be dragged to the ground of sterile demagogy? I don't think so. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups.]] I don't feel the need for it, and we don't need it. I say to the presenters: let us accept this motion. I hope it is animated by good intentions and that the results are largely positive, but let's remember I say this because it remains in the act - that we are here to define the industrial strategies of a country, that the government - represented here - defines them and that the men who will be indicated will have to be within these strategies. This is the priority, beyond the chatter that can be made on the subject. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Sangalli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u27	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u28	President, I would like to draw the House's attention to a specific aspect of the 5 Star Movement's motion, namely the passage in which reference is made to Law No 120 of 12 July 2011 on equal access to the administrative and control bodies of listed companies. This law, wanted by different political forces and reached the finish line after years of intense battles that have concerned and still concern also the gender pay gap, is characterized by two elements: it provides for a precise graduality of actions and it sets a ten-year deadline to achieve its objective, the presence of gender quotas in the social bodies. If we ask ourselves about the reasons for the graduality and the predefined duration of the effects of Law No 120, we realize that the legislator did not want to configure the measure as the protection of a gender (in this case the female one), which usually makes the nose curl to those who, men or women, are convinced that the merit can self-justify, self-regulation and, therefore, promote themselves. Instead, he wanted to support a technical process related to the specific company reality, but even more he wants to be cultural. It is considered that the law, acting within three consecutive mandates, can bring the presence of the less represented gender (the female one) first to a fifth, then to a third of the representation of the corporate bodies, obtaining an important cultural result that can and must be measured in terms of renewal, greater meritocracy and, therefore, more opportunities for growth and development. We are convinced, in fact, that the presence of women can make a great contribution to the change that our economy needs now more than ever. This change is both because in order to transpose the content of the law companies had to modify their statutes (and this is not only a formal act, but implies a rethinking of governance) and because of the numerical value that these changes impose. In an asphyxiary reality that over the years has seen a sort of game of the four cantons of the usual characters passed from one society to another, within the span of effectiveness of the law should enter with key roles in public societies about 10,000 women who will have the task to prove that they are able to assume this responsibility. The main detractors of the norm have entrenched behind the presumed unwillingness of women to carry out such duties. Unjustified exception, as evidenced by the collections of curricula of women with high profiles carried out by various organizations, for example Ready for Board Women and many others, also at local level. And here we come to another point that we would like to stress: that of selection and therefore the possibility of establishing new practices and introducing new criteria of choice. Even at the corporate level, innovative rules and criteria could have an important impact on the methods of selection of the majority gender, which today remains the male one. Transparency, merit and verification of competences are all terms that postpone an image of efficiency and dynamism. To this end, authoritative associations such as the Bellisario Foundation or institutions such as the National Council of Accountants Doctors and Accounting Experts have established databases of worthy curricula. (at 6 p.m.) (Montevecchi followed). This effort has been virtuously understood even in smaller realities: for example, in Reggio Emilia the debate on the topic was started in time, in collaboration with the Municipality, the Province and the Region, and led to a public notice for the presentation of curricula of competent women, available to be appointed in the boards of directors and in the union colleges. The motion of the 5 Star Movement stems from the contingency of the renewal of the board of directors of Finmeccanica, whose postponement allows the Senate to discuss the topic in good time, but it still has a wider and incisive meaning, in the light of the profiling of the renewals of administrative organs and control in different societies with public participation. The virtuous process outlined by the motion, in fact, also applies to the other companies participated or controlled, which shortly will see a change in the boards of administration and supervision and in the union colleges, such as ENI, ENEL, Poste Italiane and Ferrovie dello Stato, which are centers of great power, but also - let's not forget - public companies, which above all in a situation of economic stagnation could constitute a flywheel for the entire Italian economy. What we are asking for are transparent applications, criteria made public, curricula available and open to comparison and criticism, lack of conflict of interest and procedural opacity in the selection and, finally, curricula of people capable and accredited, therefore without any gender difference. We did not welcome the news reported informally in the newspapers about the possibility that the government will appoint yet another committee of essays, as if our Executive needed caregivers who legitimize its choices. It should be noted, on the other hand, that it is inappropriate for a person to choose himself who must dictate the criteria to be met. Rather, we ask the Government to adopt as interlocutors, for the definition of the criteria, the parties involved in talks with him, that is, the permanent parliamentary committees responsible for the matter, which we will never tire of repeating the need. In fact, it is Parliament that has the capacity to represent all the citizens and must re-appropriate this prerogative, also and especially at the stages of the appointment of the directors of the res publica and in the control of their results. Allow me at this point to return to a central point of our motion: the promotion of the presence of women in positions of importance and responsibility. It is well known that women have fewer school mortality and better results in the study, but it is also well known that women are by far penalized in the world of work and occupations. Statistics that show that Italy is a taillight among European countries are well known, documented and consolidated, in relation to both the roles and the awards given to women by the so-called productive world. I should like to conclude with one final remark: I would like to remind you that today we have ratified the Istanbul Convention, which deals with an emergency, that of violence against women, and it has rightly been recalled that respect for women is being built, even before the emergency, with a profound cultural approach. Law n. 120 of 2011 puts us in front of the responsibility to credit women also in excellence, to give rise to a profound cultural change, which restores not only full dignity in professional achievement and remuneration, but also in active participation in a real exchange in the difficult world of professions. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too share the spirit of Senator Romani in reading the majority motion: it seems to me that this Parliament is building a shield for the Government and, in particular, for the Ministry of Economic Affairs, so that undue forms of pressure can be rejected which make it more difficult to identify and then appoint adequate personalities for the leadership of the large companies in which the State exercises control, in law or in fact, in single form or in joint form when it joins to pacts with other shareholders. But so much so: at this point I think it is useless to do the processes to good and bad politics. Italy has its history, it is in this history there was, for example, the case of the administrator of a large public company that ended his life marginalized from everything for a trial in Tangentopoli, while the one who had organized the payment of the bribe then became the administrator of the society that had been corrupted. Ours, therefore, is not a perfect story and a shield is needed: the question is whether this shield is organized in the best way or whether it can be further perfected. There are at least three points on which I would ask Members to reflect. The first refers to the requirements of good repute which are rightly mentioned and highlighted. I believe that the part that concerns the constraints on the choice of new members of the boards indicated by the Ministry of Economy is fine. On the other hand, I think that, where automatic revocation is expected in the course of the mandate, the position should be better defined, that is, I do not think that a criminal conviction, whose importance and consistency are not specified, is sufficient in itself to determine the decadence. I think it is more appropriate to adopt, in this regard, the legislation which has long been in force in the banking sector, which has then been extended to the insurance sector. I would point out that banks and insurances deal with the most sensitive issue in the economy today, namely savings, which is constitutionally guaranteed. I think it is correct to provide for the automatic suspension of the sentenced administrator for those crimes of which we have said and the faculty (not the obligation) of the board of directors to propose the eventual reinstatement to the assembly, which deliberates it, if you believe it, in case the board of directors and the assembly itself assume the responsibility to decide that this is good for society. In this case we are talking about societies in which the Government (and politics) would have the majority; therefore, we are not afraid of ourselves, but let us assume our responsibilities in guaranteeing respect for the rights of people. Two more are the interesting points, which I will deal with quickly. The history of public companies has been studded with disastrous diarchies, in which presidents with full powers made war to managing directors with full powers or in which bell presidents had to settle eternal quarrels between two or three managing directors. I don't think these stories have to be repeated. I therefore call on you to extend in the appropriate forms that I am going to say point (c) where for unlisted companies controlled by the Ministry of Economic Affairs you are expected to delegate to the President exclusively in some areas. For the distinction of roles and the specification of competences I would propose to colleagues, who have drawn up this motion with meritorious commitment and so much effort, to the representative of the Government and to the colleagues of the other Groups that it should extend to listed companies controlled by law or de facto by the Ministry of Economy the commitment that the directors of the Ministry itself designated promote a similar attribution of delegations in respect of the rights of minority members. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u31	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, motion No 60 (text 3) wants to be a first step towards a transparent, optimal and balanced organisation of public-sector companies which constitute an important point of reference in the economic reality of our country. These companies, in fact, mostly represent major industrial realities that make us competitive and, in some cases, are also world leaders (i.e. ENEL, ENI, Finmeccanica); moreover, at the employment level they are a certain and consolidated reality. In Italy, 32 companies are directly owned or controlled by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, while others are owned or controlled by Regions and local authorities. With regard to the election of the members of the board of directors, with this motion we ask the Government to establish criteria and modalities for the nominations and the revocation of the members of the boards of directors that take into account the law 12 July 2011, n. 120, and the decree of the President of the Republic 30 November 2012, n. 251. Without prejudice to the current provisions, we call for further constraints on eligibility (sentencing, plea of punishment, conviction for crimes against public administration) and automatic forfeiture during the term of office of those who have received a criminal conviction or who have settled the penalty for that crime and, again, the exclusion from the Board of Directors of Members of Parliament, the European Parliament, the Regional Council, an autonomous Province or councillors of local authorities with populations of more than 15,000 inhabitants. As regards the assessment of professional requirements, a curriculum with similar experience to the new appointment on the Board of Directors is required and no conflict of interest or overlapping of positions in competing companies is required. We also call for a large number of requirements in order to contribute to maximum transparency and efficiency to the excellent management board structure. Another commitment that we ask the Government is to report annually to the relevant parliamentary committees on compliance with the criteria indicated in the motion. 18.14 (Follow-up). Well, in the light of what has been said, I shall vote in favour, wishing all my fellow Members' agreement, because I would like to reiterate that this motion is moving in the direction of fairness, transparency, gender representation and efficiency. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree that this motion, which has the merit of synthesizing and setting out very important principles for the appointment of public companies, concerns a non-decisive aspect of the system of participating companies. I agree that the real and greatest issue is that of public companies. It is the history of state intervention in the economy, a story with lights and shadows, but a story that had its beginning with the IRI, its development through the privatization of the '90s and had to have its development also with liberalisations. A process that has been stopped; a stop to a process that had to change the state's presence in these areas. This did not happen because of the responsibility of Articles 41 and 43 of the Constitution which, in fact, allowed the State to intervene in the economy, which was in many ways decisive. But the theme of public societies is really a theme on which to make a profound reflection not only by focusing attention on state societies, but also on the theme of the participating societies of the Municipalities. To forget that there is a reflection that also concerns this type of public intervention in the economy would be absolutely short-sighted. We are dealing here with a system that has caused enormous damage. I remember "by citizenship" the case of the participating companies of the Municipality of Parma, but I know it is not the only case. I would like to remind you that, beyond and beyond the theme of the "hole" in the public coffers, these phenomena also affect the rights of citizens because they are leading the municipalities to close services, public schools, kindergartens, to reduce seats or to raise tariffs. That's what's happening in Parma. But I would also like us to take a broader look at public intervention in the economy, if anything, because there is a subject of privatisation of public functions, a subject on the level of the Constitution which is a material reflection on the roles and methods of relationship that must be held with entities that are formally private, but which have a decisive public function. Let us look at the example of banking foundations that leads us to the need for an organic reflection on state intervention in the economy, a reflection on a system that does not stop at the requirements of appointments, but that is wider. I hope that this is an issue that will be addressed. The theme of the requirements for nominations is in this framework and in the state of the art important, but it must not distract from the need for an overall reform of the system of public intervention in the economy. The reasons are all there because there are many distorting phenomena and forms of recourse to society to circumvent principles and responsibilities proper to public bodies, to develop customerisms. And I believe that from this point of view we must also denounce very clearly that the distortions denounced in this debate in the relationship between government and government-appointed directors are also a matter of how these relationships were approached and also a question of how they were supposed to circumvent or circumvent the clear principles that the legislation laid down: the autonomy of the directors of public companies with respect to political power is an undeniable necessity. This relationship is linked by the law to the directives and to the exercise of the function of shareholder in the framework of the corporate assemblies by the State. On the contrary, we have seen a distortion that has certainly had, at the level of the directors of the companies, negative examples and, in the context of the behaviour of the men of government, too often the claim to prevaricate and not to have professionals in charge of these societies, but of the " yes men." Italy does not need this. The Italian economic system does not need this. The hope is that, passing through this important motion, we will arrive at a broader reflection, a reflection that can lead us to truly redesign the intervention of the State in the economy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u35	The debate is closed. I note that 16 amendments have been tabled to motion No 60 (text 3), the texts of which have already been printed and are being distributed. I call the Vice-Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Fassina, to whom I would like to express my opinion on the motions and amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u36	Mr President, before I give an opinion on the motions that have been tabled, I would like to stress something that I consider important. First of all, I would like to thank all the political groups for their initiative, as it makes it possible to take an important step forward. In recent years, measures have been adopted which have enabled improvements to be made in appointment procedures and choices, but certainly the motions presented today make it possible to make a very significant leap in quality. In the three motions are contained important points and absolutely agreeable. It seems to me that there is a willingness on the part of all to arrive at a systemic indication, beyond the individual cases mentioned in the debate just ended. With regard specifically to the individual motions, the Government expresses a negative opinion on the motion of which Senator Lucidi is the first signatory, because he believes that points 2 and 3 of the device cannot function or can cause problems to the procedures of choice. In particular, point 2, which asks for the publication on the website of the Ministry of all CVs received, risks limiting the possibility of applications, given the sensitivity of these choices to the positions occupied by those who submit to participate in the appointment in a public company. As far as point 3 is concerned, we believe that there is a risk of excessive political tension being placed on the nomination procedures, which could be at the expense of the quality of the choices that are made. I also express a negative opinion on the motion of which Senator Bitonci is the first signatory, in particular as regards the commitment envisaged for the Government in point 2, for the reasons I have just mentioned, being this point similar to that of the first motion, presented by Senator Lucidi and by other senators. On the other hand, we support the motion of which Senator Tomaselli is the first signatory. It is a motion which seems to me to recover the important points of the previous motions, while avoiding, at the same time, those elements of rigidity that I recalled earlier. It indicates criteria that can lead to maximum transparency and a significant improvement, as I mentioned at the beginning, of the procedures for selecting persons, directors and presidents (so, hopefully, also to an improvement in company performance). With regard to the points that have been raised during the debate, I believe that there are important comments that need to be taken into account. I am referring in particular to Senator Romani's reflections on industrial strategies and the duty of policy - good policy - to take responsibility for industrial strategies. On the contrary, I believe that if there has been a deficit, in the years behind us, in the possibility of indicating industrial strategies, this is a function that politics must regain, in respect - of course - of its role, that is, to indicate strategies and not to make the specific choices of the day to day. With these reasons, we support motion No 60 (text 3), signed by Senator Tomaselli and others.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u37	Mr Fassina, you should also kindly give me your opinion on the amendments. , Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I thought the illustration was there first. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's already been done.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u40	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Mr President, since there are informal contacts between the groups to arrive at the possibility of a unitary text, I wanted to speak before the representative of the Government spoke on the amendments, because some of them could be included in a unitary text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, the Government has expressed its opinion on three motions. On motion No 60 (text 3) there is a favourable opinion; the motion cannot be changed. Mr Tomaselli (PD). Mr President, I asked you for the floor, but - unfortunately - thirty seconds after you gave the floor to the representative of the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Tomaselli, you have asked for the floor in relation to a text 4 which has never been received by the Presidency. Mr Tomaselli (PD). Mr President, the request was ten minutes' suspension. I should have done it before the government representative intervened, and I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u41	Senator Tomaselli, I am willing to grant the suspension, provided that time is recovered in the explanations of vote. Therefore, the time allocated to each person for explanations of vote will be five minutes rather than ten minutes. That's how it's established. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u44	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President, I rise to support Mr Tomaselli's request, because the objective - I believe - of almost all the parties represented in this House is to reach a unanimous motion. Among other things, I believe that this effort must be strongly supported and appreciated by everyone and - I hope - also by public opinion, because we want to give the country a signal of unity of all political forces when it comes to dictating the rules of conduct of politics in the choices of high administration of the country. So I share and hope - indeed, I am confident - that we can arrive at this desired text 4 within the time allowed, which the Presidency will assess. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u47	BOCCHINO (M5S). Mr President, we also welcome the request to suspend the sitting so that a joint text can be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u50	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we also welcome the request for suspension and consider that a joint motion can be reached in these ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u51	The Presidency will allow 15 minutes of suspension so as not to have to grant another five minutes after the recovery. Therefore, the sitting will resume at 6.45 p.m. and the Presidency will harmonise the timetable so that we can reach the final vote at 7.30 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 6.30 p.m. and resumed at 648 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I say that we have come to the definition of a unitary text, which has already been received by the Presidency and which is currently physically being drafted on the computer.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u54	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, today we are faced with a very important act in the Government-Parliament relationship, and it is a decisive step towards transparency. (Brusio). But I would ask you, Mr President, since there is little time, to call on Members to limit the buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u55	Colleagues, please, we have tried to set up the work to conclude at 7.30 p.m. Therefore, I invite you to maximum cooperation. The hemicycle must be free and Senator Lanzillotta must be able to intervene without this noise.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I said, this is a decisive step forward in the relationship between government and Parliament and in the transparency of the procedures for adopting government decisions on both appointments and governance of public companies. Of this we must acknowledge Minister Saccomanni and Vice Minister Fassina, who has spoken with great attention with the Senate, and we thank him for this. These societies, as has been said in the debate, represent an important part of our economy. Companies that in many cases are advanced points of excellence of our industrial apparatus and that, precisely for this reason, must be managed with managerial criteria, without settling to partisan interests or to opaque logics and clientele. These are very diversified sectors (industrial, service, management of public activities) and privatisations over the years have reduced the perimeter of the State entrepreneur, but despite the fact that the participating companies of first and second level remain very, very extensive. It is a vast perimeter and on some it has intervened the spending review with very incisive modifications, regarding the amplitude of the boards of directors, once dilated to a great extent, of composition, now reserved only to the civil servants of the State, of level of the compensations and presence of women. But it cannot be hidden that alongside these realities of excellence, many of these corporate bodies have served, over the years, to circumvent the public procurement and recruitment rules, to conceal the debt, to manage in a way sometimes clientele relevant sectors of public activity and relations with the market and economic interests. Today, the motions we are about to vote are trying to bind the public shareholder to strict criteria of professionalism and good repute, which were partly anticipated in the Grilli directive. It's an important step. We are sure that the Minister will be there, but it will be up to Parliament to equip itself to ensure that these criteria are actually met in all that huge plethora of societies, of which we have heard, in numerical terms. But, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot hide that the system of public societies is perceived by public opinion as part of that caste whose privileges have separated the institutions and politics from public opinion, thereby reducing the respect of citizens towards it. Very delicate societies that in some cases, certainly not in all, as we have pointed out, have been occupied by the worst politics in recent years. Society in which have been built in the years annuities of position and encrustations of power. For this reason, today we believe it is necessary to give a clear and decisive sign of discontinuity and resistance of politics in the sign of moralization, of the separation of politics from the economy, of the abolition of the principle of inmobility and, at the same time, indeed, for this very reason, of the valorization of the great entrepreneurial patrimony, managerial, professional and technological guarded in many of these societies. That is why the final assessment of Civic Choice will depend on whether or not the two amendments which, in our opinion, affect this element of discontinuity are accepted. That which prevents former parliamentarians or former elected members from being automatically transferred to the boards of directors and that which limits the principle of inmobility and therefore the stay in the same office to three mandates, that is to say to about a decade, except of course that the Minister considers that, for reasons of reason, we must deviate from this criterion, thus guaranteeing the government the necessary flexibility in the exercise of its prerogatives. We therefore await the Government's opinion on these amendments to dissolve the final assessment of the motion. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u59	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we too are waiting to hear the Government's opinion on the text that is in the press and therefore not yet in the minds of the senators. However, let us take the opportunity to re-launch some of the considerations that we have expressed in the debate, because although we share most of the content that is present, albeit in a different way, in all the motions that have been presented, it seems to us - and we say this to the Deputy Minister, in particular - that there is a problem of real simplification of both the system of the participants and the subsidiaries and the governing bodies of these subjects. We should go more and more towards the identification of professionally competent monocratic bodies that guarantee the results that the Government, national, regional, local, assigns as objectives to those subjects, and that, in most cases, can carry out together the functions of general administration as well as those of general management of the structures. We believe that this is the true signal that must be expected also from a coalition like yours, which is a very large coalition; we would not want it to happen as it happens here in the Senate: that we must now have two majority speakers for the bill. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] First there was a majority rapporteur and, if anything, a minority rapporteur; now there are always two majority rapporteurs. If the criterion is that the administration adapts to the needs for the political operation of the coalitions and this system we repeat it from the Parliament's classrooms to the executive bodies and even on the boards of the final managers, that is, in the system of the participated and the controlled ones, we are in ruins: other than simplification, we will make a product of complication additional to what we already suffer, and it is not the right way to solve the problems. Problems that remain - I tell the Deputy Minister because the Government takes this into account - because there are deadlines, and the participants, especially in-house companies at local level, have problems of survival, which are dictated by the law, but they also have problems of employment, because many of those who operate mainly in in-house societies come from the basins of socially useful workers, who have been recovered, through that system, to employment. Well, we risk finding them again on the road to increasing that now enormous number that the Minister of Labour has reported to us: 6 million unemployed in Italy; 6 million real, not those that are formally recorded by ISTAT. Mr President, my explanation of vote anticipates a favourable approach, subject to checking what the Government will say. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u62	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, the question of participating companies in our country is a bit the Italian fruit of historical evolution, in support of some productive sectors that were then considered strategic. We start from the rescue of the two banks: the Italian Commercial Bank, the Italian Credit; in 1926 AGIP was founded to ensure autonomy in the field of energy; in 1933 the Institute for Industrial Reconstruction; in 1950 the Cassa per il Mezzogiorno; the ENI in 1953, to arrive in 1956 even to establish the Ministry of State Participation. What did it mean? A great interference of the State in the economy and, clearly for the public shareholder, the powers of appointment, then governed by civil code, that is, the faculty is attributed to appoint directors, as well as mayors, in proportion to the participation. As a North League they want to claim the pre spending review, which we achieved even in 2007, with which we anticipated the times. It established, for example, that all appointed civil servants should publish the income received, that there would be a maximum number of members for each board of directors, and - the great novelty, to be attributed to the current vice president of the Senate, then minister, Calderoli, and to Minister Tremonti - the fact of equalizing the public administrator to the private administrator. We know that a private administrator if he works badly fails, while bankruptcy for public administrators was not contemplated. With the 2007 financial year, it was stated that if an appointed administrator closes three times a loss-making financial year, he shall lapse from his post and may no longer be appointed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Some kind of public administrators' failure. Today we are discussing and focusing particularly on the consequence of Law No 120 of 2011, that is, on the lack of presence within the public societies of women. The soup has been extended here with a reference to a regulation for which, at least, we must now respect what has been established, namely to ensure that one third of the components are female. But how can we guarantee that? We wanted to be more punctual. The first guarantee of application would be information and knowledge. And what are we taking home? Not much, because we had to converge on a unified text, so there will no longer be the obligation, for example, to publish requirements, which will only take place if the subjects give consent, because the rule seemed arbitrary or, in any case, subject to privacy regulations. We would have preferred (but this point was not accepted) that there should be two controls: the institutional one and the social one. The first would have to pass through the parliamentary standing committees, but this control has been skipped and has been made softer by providing for an ex post verification of the applicability of the criteria used by the Government. With regard to social control, if all curricula had been published, any interested party would have been able to verify any discrimination. We regret that there has been no mention of compensation at all, because, to put it bluntly, the administrative pyramid culminates with the Government and the President of the Council of Ministers, who represents its summit. Is it possible that within companies that are dependent on a Ministry (which is always under the presidency of the Council) a director of a company can receive up to thirty times the compensation of the President of the Council? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It seems that this cannot be done for listed companies. For unlisted companies we have taken as reference the parameter of the first President of the Court of Cassation... [[Call the president back.]] Allow me another 30 seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u63	Fifteen.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u64	DIVINE (LN-Aut). I wouldn't want the political class, the MP and the Minister to be considered a bitch. Because, in comparison with the salaries of the parliamentary state boiards, Ministers and Government make the appearance of scumbags. We have already made the figure of the scumbags in 2011 when in order not to remove a euro from the pockets of the citizens was introduced the so-called solidarity contribution for which those who received more than 90,000 euros had to pay a contribution of 5% and those who instead earned more than 150,000 euros a contribution of 10%. The Members then decided to contribute twice as much as the parameters set, but they did so only because the judges, i.e. a category whose incomes exceed the thresholds set, challenged the rule and other judges were right. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] I don't know if my colleagues want to keep being shitty behind the state boyfriends... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u67	BOCCHINO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that we are experiencing a period of transition for politics, in which old logics have been called into question, we could almost say 'a fury of people'. The 5 Star Movement and its 8 and a half million voters are the direct consequence of the shared need to pursue a process of profound renewal, which wants to bring the interests of the citizen back to the centre of political debate. Those who are not deaf to the streets, those who are constantly and closely in contact with the citizens, certainly cannot fail to accept the demands that emerge with great force from our voters: honesty, legality, transparency, meritocracy must now enter overpoweringly into the management of public affairs. The 5 Star Movement has made these values its flag and, paradoxically, long before we entered Parliament, the other parties have become promoters of late and incomplete references, for example, to the moral question, to the containment of the costs of politics and to processes of meritorious selection. If they have done this, that is also our merit. As far as meritocracy is concerned, we are therefore addressing the great issue of the appointments of the top management of state-owned companies, which are the subject of the motions we are debating in this House. The recent judicial scandals involving the Finmeccanica company have strongly placed the problem of top appointments, so far carried out paying little attention to criteria such as incompatibility with political positions, the absence of conflicts of interest, experience, competence and so on. The events related to Finmeccanica, which took place in the middle of the electoral campaign, have therefore strongly revived the theme of the honesty of the so-called managers and of those who put them in their place: a huge problem of lack of sense of the state, which was felt. The current government postponed the appointment of the new president and, during the Finmeccanica assembly a few weeks ago, the appointment of the two advisors was postponed to July and generic and bland references to transparency were made. The good declarations of intent risked remaining dead letter and producing unsatisfactory results if Parliament had not intervened to quell the armed forces, all political, around the three four candidates, which was before everyone's eyes and which was the real reason for the decision not to decide so far. Ladies and gentlemen, the 5 Star Movement claims the merit of having started the parliamentary debate on nominations: who knows how long it would have been, if it had not been for us. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mastrangeli and Uras]] We have tabled our motion, we have also seen the majority motion and we have tabled twelve amendments to this motion, ten of which have been accepted. Among these amendments we mention the positive performance requested of candidates regarding the managements they have previously administered, that on the online publication of curricula not only of the chosen candidates, but of all those who have applied, and that on the turnout of the guarantee committee, to ensure that the members of this important process in the selection work change every three years. All these amendments have been accepted and that is why we have withdrawn our motion, which has been incorporated into the majority's motion. So today, ladies and gentlemen, in this House we finally have the opportunity to carry out a new course - I would stress this: a new course - in choosing the appointments of the heads of state-owned companies, which are at last marked by transparency and meritocracy, as well as gender equality. It is difficult to take into account that this possibility is only possible following various judicial investigations and significant financial losses of the Finmeccanica Group and others. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli),]] who have not failed and will not fail to have repercussions also on the job level for the thousands of employees of the group and for their families, whose responsibility, I remember, cannot but fall entirely on the shoulders of those who had the task of first naming and then controlling the leadership of the group. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli.]] The 5 Star Movement Group - and I conclude, Mr President - with the vote in favour of this motion wants to be the spokesperson of all those citizens who, seeing themselves demanding titles on titles, skills, curricula on curricula, even to do the simplest jobs, feel deeply humiliated and offended when the same criteria are completely disregarded, if it is to assign, instead, much more important tasks, which have to do with the management of public interests and the public money. [[Live applause from GroupM5S and Senator Mastrangeli. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u70	LANGELLA (PdL). Ladies and gentlemen, as we point out in this motion, public-sector companies are a resource for the country and, if well conducted by competent administrators and with strategic policies, they can promote a truly important development in our economy, both at national and local level. The State cannot and must not renounce to exercise an action of support to the free enterprise, but must be promoter of growth and socio-economic development, through its own initiatives aimed at strengthening the country system. Companies with public participation, in fact, some of which are of particular importance, operate in sectors of prevalence of general interest, in which the investment and the services provided are at a level that the private sector is not always able to guarantee fully. The State in particular, through the Ministry of Economy and Finance, holds the direct participation by majority or control of 32 companies operating in strategic sectors, including insurance, banking, financial services, postal services, infrastructure, transport, energy and services. These include ENEL, ENI, Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, Ferrovie dello Stato and Finmeccanica, companies that represent an important employment centre and take a leading position worldwide. Article 4, paragraph 1, letter e), of the legislative decree of 30 March 2001, n. 165, provides that in the exercise of the functions of political and administrative direction the governing bodies shall in particular make appointments, designations and similar acts attributed to them by specific provisions. For these needs, it is therefore appropriate to increase the provisions that can ensure transparency and quality of the procedures for the designation of the members of the administrative bodies of publicly owned companies and to strengthen the requirements of good repute and professionalism of the directors themselves, excluding the risk of undue and harmful political interference that could compromise the existence and the corporate nature of the controlled bodies. It is therefore necessary that the Minister of Economy and Finance for subsidiaries directly or indirectly by the same Ministry can rely on general criteria and modalities for the appointment and forfeiture of the members of the administrative bodies, in order to also ensure compliance with the provisions of Law 12 July 2011, n. 120, and the decree of the President of the Republic of 30 November 2012, n. 251. I am referring to the introduction of a specific cause of ineligibility for those against whom a court order has been issued, or who have settled the sentence or reported a conviction for certain serious cases of crime, such as crimes against public administration, public faith, property, public order and the public economy or in tax and bankruptcy matters. I am also referring to the provision that members of the administrative bodies who have been convicted of a criminal offence or who have been convicted of a criminal offence are automatically forfeited in the course of their term of office. Finally, I am referring to the exclusion from the appointment of members of the administrative bodies of Members of Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council of a Region and an autonomous Province or advisers of local authorities with a population of more than 15,000 inhabitants. All of this is also based on the most recent legislative interventions, which have led to a subposition of public companies not only to measures to limit expenditure, but also to rules of transparency and organizational constraints. However, this regulatory framework, which has emerged over time, does not seem to have assumed the characteristics of an organic and stable system to date. Even in the face of these reasons, I declare the vote in favour on behalf of the PDL Group, in the hope that a more complete definition of the discipline of the matter can be achieved as soon as possible, in order to strengthen the competitive capacities and transparency in our country. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u73	RANUCCI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an innovative motion, because it identifies requirements of professionalism and good repute with strict constraints, but also lean governance, reduced remuneration of administrative bodies and an important gender balance. We will shortly have 199 appointments, to which these criteria can be applied. Starting from the CEO of the companies, finally it is expected that the operational paid delegations will be reserved to him, and the choice will have to take place with rigid parameters: experience, especially in the field of reference, authority adapted to the charge and absence of conflicts of interest. In this regard, I make a small parenthesis: all too often it happens that, in and out of society, there are similar or conflicting interests. We have seen in the past that controllers have become actors in previously controlled operating companies or, worse still, we have seen public decision-makers take operational positions in private companies. I believe that a period of decantation is necessary for the passage between public and private and vice versa. The President must have an adequate balance from legal, financial, industrial and authoritative powers in particular, and I stress this, as this word has become obsolete in our vocabulary and often in politics, which he appoints and forgets its meaning. The members of the Boards of Directors shall be reduced to three or five and the remuneration in line with those of the first President of the Court of Cassation. This is a very sensitive point that I want to stress, because, if it is true that there may have been excesses in the past, it is also true that some companies often have to compare on world markets, and governance must have the experience, professionalism, the industrial, economic and financial vision to compete on international markets; therefore, choices must keep in mind these parameters, which require adequate remuneration. I would also like to stress the importance of setting up a guarantee committee which will have to make the choices, which will also be made up of persons of recognized competence and competence, after an in-depth investigation. I believe that it is very important - I am addressing the Government but also ourselves - for public administrations to adopt similar criteria and procedures. In this case we have seen too often in the companies controlled by the bodies and in the municipalized nominations made with the sole criteria of belonging, in which often the boards of directors are a refugium sinterum for the unelected and the directors respond to the shareholder institution with cliential practices both in the assumptions and in the economic and industrial policies of the same. I believe that the Government - and I address the Deputy Minister - must take appropriate legislative initiatives to bring local government companies into line with the criteria of the Ministry of Economy, so that transparency can be ensured and that municipal authorities and companies controlled by the authorities can finally become not only efficient but also effective. I conclude by calling on everyone to reflect on the responsibility of the appointee. I am not talking about criminal or civil liability, but moral and political responsibility, because we cannot think that those who appoint directors of important bodies or companies do not have this responsibility that is then the responsibility of citizens. I therefore believe that this is a responsibility that we must all assume. I therefore declare our vote in favour of motion No 60, and we hope that it will be able to achieve broad convergence in this House. [[PD and Senator Longo Fausto Guilherme applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u74	I ask the attention of Senators Lucidi and Bocchino. From the intervention of the latter, I understand that your motion is to be withdrawn. Is that it? BOCCHINO (M5S). I confirm. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bocchino, do you confirm that you withdraw amendments 60.3, 60.4, 60.6, 60.7, 60.8, 60.11, 60.12, 60.13 and 60.15 while maintaining 60.9 and 60.10? BOCCHINO (M5S). We also withdraw amendment 60.5. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. Senator Lanzillotta maintains Amendments 60.1 and 60.2 as she said. Senator Di Biagio, do you withdraw amendment 60,100? DI BIAGIO (SPI). I'll keep it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cucchetti, do you confirm the withdrawal of Amendment 60.14? MUCCHETTI (PD). I confirm. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask colleagues in the League whether they intend to maintain motion 51 (text 2). BITONCI (LN-Aut). We're pulling her back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on Mr Fassina to speak on motion No 60 (text 4), first signed by Senator Tomaselli, and on the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u75	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 60 (text 4), while the remaining amendments are against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u78	ICHINO (SPI). I should like to ask the Deputy Minister to say a few words on the reason for his negative opinion on Amendments 60.1 and 60.2. We'd like to understand the meaning of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u79	Not seeing any news from the government, let's proceed with the votes. Amendments 60.3 and 60.4 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 60.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u81	Senator Della Vedova, we are not in the process of explanations of vote, but in the process of voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u82	DELLA VEDOVA (SPI). Explanations of vote on the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. We've run out of time, and we've agreed that they're... No, I asked the offices, and they told me it was possible... president. We have unanimously decided that there should be explanations of vote for no more than five minutes. DELLA VEDOVA (SPI). But we didn't decide unanimously... President. If you want to make an announcement of vote, simply that, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. DELLA VEDOVA (SPI). Under what rule, Mr President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That before each vote each senator can make an announcement of vote. DELLA VEDOVA (SPI). We agreed on the five minutes on the explanation of vote, but not that there would be no explanations of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The harmonization of the timetable was unanimously accepted, with the voting scheduled for 7.30 p.m. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Filippi.]] DELLA VEDOVA (SPI). Mr President, let us say that your word is final, even though I am totally dissenting. We maintain these amendments and we bind the vote in favour of the motion for the adoption of these amendments for the fundamental reason - I am addressing my colleagues and Vice-Minister Fassina - that if we want to take a step forward, knowing very well that we do not discuss principles, but we are debating on the basis of what really happened in Italy in the management of public companies, from the largest to the smallest, why not put, Mr Vice-Minister, a one-year diaphragm between parliamentary and elective positions and the appointment on the boards of directors? Why, Mr Vice-Minister, do we not envisage, in a reasonable way, a limit to the three mandates to which the Government may derogate on a reasoned basis? All this knowing very well that the public shareholder, unlike the private shareholder, can be captured not only by the creation of value for companies, but also by all the other practices that the Italian reality delivers. We simply do not understand why we should not include these two elements, which have been reasonably formulated in this motion. But if you do not have the courage to take these two steps - I tell the Deputy Minister - we will abstain. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u84	The last thing I would like to do is take the floor off a colleague, but I am of the opinion that if anyone derogates from the rules we give ourselves, I must do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u85	CASINI (SCPI). You won't take it away from me, Mr. President, because I'm gonna be lightning. In terms of Group discipline, although I do not agree with the two amendments, of which I understand the reasons, I shall vote for them. If they are rejected, however, I will still vote for the document, because I believe that the reasons why it was proposed are not lost. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u88	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u89	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 60.1, tabled by Senators Lanzillotta and Susta. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 33, 51 (text 2) and 60 (text 2) PRESIDENT. I put to the vote Amendment 60.2 tabled by Senator Lanzillotta and other senators. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 60,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u92	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Mr President, while I welcome the wish for common sense of the motion, which I too shall be voting against, I believe it is useful to launch a provocation in this House - Mr Vice-Minister, I know that it is sensitive to these issues - and I do so through Amendment No 60,100. As it is clear, given the complexity of the subject and the interventions integrated into it, in particular in a complex situation for the country, in which professionals are not lacking and there is a blockage of turnover in the public administration, we must give space and resources especially to young people capable. Mine is just a personal invitation to all colleagues to reflect on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u95	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u96	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 60,100 tabled by Senator Di Biagio. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 33, 51 (text 2) and 60 (text 2) PRESIDENT. Amendments 60.5, 60.6, 60.7 and 60.8 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 60.9. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 60.9 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 33, 51 (text 2) and 60 (text 2) PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 60.10. IN MAY (SPI). Mr President, I would ask you to have more time to vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It will certainly be granted. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 60.10 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). Everyone voted? [[Applause.]] The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 33, 51 (text 2) and 60 (text 2) PRESIDENT. Amendments 60.11, 60.12, 60.13, 60.14 and 60.15 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 60 (text 4). SANTANGELO (M5S). I am kindly asking for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. [[Applause.]] Senator Santangelo, you've gathered a round of applause. Let's hope it doesn't bother you. [[Applause]] I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 60 (text 4), tabled by Senator Tomaselli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, we should now move on to the discussion of the motions referred to in the second item on the agenda, in which there are two speeches, six speeches in general discussion, the reply and six explanations of vote. In view of the number of requests to speak at the end of the sitting, I propose that we postpone the discussion of the second item on the agenda until tomorrow morning. As no comments are made, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u100	VACCARI (PD). Mr President, I wanted to take the floor to put to this House a problem that will arise from now on for a non-small category of Italian citizens. On 11 June last, the European Parliament approved Regulation 353, with which it basically downgraded celiacs and their disease in a fashion. This regulation has essentially indicated products intended for certain vulnerable groups of the population, including infants, children, those with special medical purposes, those who have to lose weight, but did not include celiacs. I say this because on this subject this Senate has already seen the predisposition of motion 1-00061, signed by me together with my colleague De Biasi and other colleagues, and of the bill n. 355, signed by my colleague De Poli. And I say that because the estimates that the European Parliament has taken as a reference are not supported by concrete scientific studies. These estimates refer, in particular, to a not well-known percentage of the population that would suffer only from non-celiac gluten sensitivity, and have led to the fact that celiac disease is not considered to be a real disease on an autoimmune basis. This is a serious problem for which I would ask you, Mr President, to schedule as soon as possible the debate on motion 1-00061 and draft law No 355, in the presence of Mr Lorenzin, who I know is particularly involved in this matter. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u101	Senator Vaccari, it will be my duty to point out and urge the President to do this because it is an issue that I particularly care about.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u104	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to thank you twice because today I have no difficulty in having the floor and speaking, as is the case with a certain frequency. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that perhaps a little over a month ago we debated and voted on an agenda in this House and that motions had been tabled to ask the Government for an urgent measure on the safeguard clause to ensure that our agriculture was protected from the possibility of sowing in particular Monsanto maize, i.e. genetically modified maize. Now, after unanimity in this House, in agreement, the Government and the three Ministers (of agriculture, health and the environment) have been asked for national interest to provide for the safeguard clause, this has not happened. Urgent questions have been asked, but nothing has happened. On Saturday mornings and Sunday mornings, in the province of Pordenone, the story that many of us know has begun again. GMO maize, which is therefore genetically modified, has been sown, with the great problems that this will cause for production in Friuli again. I would like to remind everyone that when the incident took place two years ago (with complaints, cases and trials), economic damage was done to all other producers. Therefore, tomorrow, at 3 p.m. (I am announcing to the House and I ask colleagues to speak), there will be an initiative by farmers and associations in front of the Chamber of Deputies, because at Palazzo Chigi they do not give us permission, to ask the Government to finally defend the interests of Italian agriculture and to immediately adopt the safeguard clause. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u107	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make a brief communication, but I believe that the work of other fellow senators can also benefit. We presented the written question 4-00244 to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on 23 May, on an important work such as the Arcisate-Stabio, a work which is encountering significant problems. To date, no response has been received and no response has been received. It is natural that when a Member of Parliament presents an act of inspection union it means that there is a problem and that the latter must be taken seriously, otherwise it would mean that our own activity is merely a corollary to that of the Government. So the invitation of course is that, through this intervention and through his person, to raise awareness of the Government so that the acts of union of parliamentarians correspond to concrete and exhaustive answers. We are also prepared to accept other forms of it than the written one, as can be the oral one, but we are certainly not prepared to accept that citizens should simply be given waiting times, without any government activity and above all without any response. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u110	GIANNI (SPI). Mr President, I wanted to point out that, due to a manual error, my vote was not recorded on the penultimate amendment, which was against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u111	I would like to take this opportunity to point out to my fellow Members, although there are a few of us, that when a senator takes the floor to make the mistake of voting or the fact that he has not been able to vote, he determines that he remains in the minutes. This does not change the outcome of the vote and its vote for or against is not switched to electronic printing, which is the only document that remains.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u114	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, we had signed up to speak, but there was probably a misunderstanding. If you'll allow me two minutes, I'd like to make a notation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. About what, Senator? NUGNES (M5S). We in the Environment Commission are very attentive to Mr Orlando and, above all, we bell towers, given the attention the Minister is giving to our region. So, in recent days we have been very surprised that even now, June 2013, a Minister for the Environment, who is young, says that in order to solve the problem of waste in Campania and not to go into infringement proceedings with Europe we will have to build two incinerators again, when the Europe of the Seventh Framework Programme does not ask for incinerators, because it does not provide for 2020: for that date it provides for the prohibition of incineration. Then I would like to send him this news, because he is probably not well informed and I am sorry: Europe is asking us much more! The incinerators are out of the market and have an economic sense just because they still have CIP6 incentives. Incidentally, Campania, according to the city council member for the Roman environment, is currently at a level of separate collection that places it in fourth place in the national panorama. Only one thing is true: either we are in breach of Europe or we are in fourth place as separate collection. I would like clarification, otherwise I am confused; I need some certainty. So, what are we gonna do? Do we want to start building machines today that produce incredible environmental damage, incredible economic damage to the territory, health damage? Let's start building them today and we'll have them in six years: 2013 plus six as much as it does, President? I'm sorry, I have some difficulties, maybe because I'm affected, but I think we're close to 2020, so then we'll have to close the incinerators. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We must ask the Minister for zero waste and zero combustion and, therefore, composting plants. In Campania we need composting plants. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We calculated 13 already with Minister Ronchi, but no one is open. We are in this situation: we do not have composting systems. That is why Europe is punishing us, because we are still taking waste out because we do not have composting facilities. I wanted to get this news to the Minister. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u115	Senator Nugnes, I might suggest to you that an act of inspection union would be the most appropriate instrument than the problems you have raised.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u116	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-45.ana.u117	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 20 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.40 p.m.
