ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 19 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,03 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] The Senate of the Republic today solemnly commemorates Senator Emilio Colombo, who died on June 24 at the age of ninety-three, the last constituent of Parliament. Born in Potenza on 11 April 1920, he began his long political and institutional journey among the ranks of the Italian Youth of Catholic Action, of which he was vice-president. He interpreted Catholic and Christian Democrat inspiration with dedication and commitment, not ideologically but certainly in a perspective firmly anchored to the fundamental values of tradition. As soon as twenty-six years old became a member of the constituent assembly. On the occasion of his ninetieth birthday, he remembered that moment with unchanged emotion expressing his gratitude with these words: I am grateful to my country, to the people of Lucana, to the Christian Democracy, who have honored me with a mandate that I have tried to absolve in a quiet and conscious conscience. His political inspiration is intertwined, almost indissoluble, with his institutional projection. Such was his republican fidelity to bring out with clear transparency his approach based on the clear distinction between religious motivation and political context. Precisely in the clarity of their respective areas of action Emilio Colombo drew strength to affirm his commitment in a genuinely democratic way and participation in the life of the institutions as personal and direct responsibility. Elected to the Chamber of Deputies from I to XI legislature, Emilio Colombo was the only President of the Council from Basilicata in the Republican Age. He took office as Minister in 27 governments and, from 1977 to 1979, served as President of the European Parliament. He said of his many assignments: "It looks like a fruit salad." In this, too, it revealed the subdued and composed irony that constituted one of the characteristics among the most appreciated by public opinion. He was a consistent advocate of the need for a responsible and supportive economic policy. Financial stability was not an end in itself. It was, however, the necessary, indefectible prerequisite for the development of a balanced and harmonious society. In this way Emilio Colombo became an interpreter of that Catholic social doctrine within which reformism and work played a crucial role in giving meaning to individual and collective action. He had already demonstrated this in 1949 when, young Undersecretary of State for Agriculture, he succeeded in trying to mediate with the farmers of Melissa, in one of the most tragic episodes of the agricultural struggle in the Mezzogiorno. The praise of Melissa was, already then, the metaphor of all its political action. That episode is not an occasional event but a sign of a political method based on coherence and humility. Emilio Colombo used words of particular value when he invited, in mutual respect for the roles and competences of each one, to give up all presumptuousness, all rhetoric and every claim of monopoly. He was appointed Minister of the Treasury in a crucial period for Italian and European economic history. Our country managed to overcome the serious crisis of 1963-1964 without recourse to monetary devaluation. Interinstitutional cooperation and dialogue were not secondary in this enterprise, in particular with the Governor of the Bank of Italy, Guido Carli. In an interview released in 2003, Emilio Colombo defined his years as the Treasury Minister as the most beautiful page of my life, always alongside Guido Carli. It was a discussion, but never a real fight. We faced together the first great Italian inflation after that of De Gasperi. The "Finncial Times" rewarded us with the Oscar for the strongest coin. In fact, Italy of those years had in Emilio Colombo and Guido Carli two protagonists capable of firmly anchoring the fate of the country in the international chessboard with the dignity that Italy deserved. Colombo knew that the solidity and credibility of the state budget did not represent a mere accounting year for those involved in the work, but was the overall network for all economic and social relations. Moreover, the sustainability of the budget was for him a guarantee of freedom, political autonomy, in the final presupposition of national sovereignty itself. The truthfulness and transparency in public finance became for him an expression and synonym of public morality. As Emilio Colombo said: "We have to write figures with a realistic vision. I can't promise fake money. It is not necessary to stress the continuing relevance of his warning: politics and public morality are based on truth, transparency, sustainability of promises and coherence of choices. It was precisely as Minister of the Treasury that Colombo played a decisive role in the settlement of the crisis of the empty chair inaugurated by De Gaulle, who in 1965 threatened to remove France from the process of European integration. Colombo's mediation was decisive for the signing of the so-called Luxembourg compromise which restored French participation in the life of the then-born common market. With far-sightedness, Emilio Colombo always accompanied the national dimension with a European and international projection: first as President and Member of the European Parliament and, from the second Cossiga Government onwards, as Minister for Foreign Affairs. In this capacity, during the three-year period 1980-83, he, together with the German counterpart, drew up the Colombo-Genscher Act, the political premise of the Single European Act and of the Maastricht Treaty itself. Confirmation of its role and prestige are the countless evidences of esteem and the high recognitions received for the unbreakable contribution to the process of European integration. In May 1979 he was awarded to Aachen - the third Italian politician after Alcide De Gasperi and Antonio Segni - with the prestigious "Carlo Magno" award, awarded to the personalities who have contributed most to the development of the unity of Europe. In October 2011 he was awarded the gold medal of the Jean Monnet Foundation, for the high merits he had in the birth and development of the EEC and the European Union. Faced with truly singular authority and credibility, he maintained a style always based on respect for every interlocutor. At the inaugural sitting of this legislature, which was called upon to chair the Assembly, he had the opportunity to launch a call for a Europe: It's not just strong, it's just right. When I say loud and just - these are his words - I mean a Europe that is open to the demands of rigour, but also to the demands and needs of development, and above all that it wants to continue on a path of unity, both politically and institutionally. Though firm and pressing in his decisions, he was never a prevaricator. Ability to listen and respect opinions were transformed into political strategy, appropriateness and institutional dignity. Its decisive and stated conviction on the centrality of Parliament was the civic projection of the plurality of the demands and expectations of society, the essential instrument to give order and meaning to even more critical ferments. "If there is a message that I would like to entrust to those who are younger than me," he said, "to those who are, fortunately, so young, although senators in this House, it is to believe in democracy without taking shortcuts, to defend it from the toxins of populism - to speak of the bad one - which becomes a widespread inclination and an illusion if he persuades that democracy does not involve fatigue, sacrifice and coherence." And to young people he always maintained hope and respect, inviting them not to fail in their duties of study, but also to encourage them to establish themselves and operate as leaven, so that Italy and Europe may ferment in a new growth, to contribute in Italy and in Europe to the building of communities more in conformity with the dignity of every man. His was an attitude against all indifference or neutrality. His motivation certainly did not mean renunciation, nor resignation, indeed could translate into "fight." "We who lived those times, remember them," he said, "not only because of the civil drama that characterized them, but because of the fervour with which we then traveled the destroyed Italy, despairing sometimes that we could reconstruct it with the urgency of our hopes, but consciously involved in a struggle in which we felt that the deep reasons for our identity and our future were in question." The image of the Sassi di Matera described by Pasolini is perhaps the synthesis of his deep-rooted conviction to transform poverty into a prospect of redemption and revenge. The wealth itself was not the end, but a motive for the action of individuals that the State was called to harmonize for a higher moral and civil elevation of the community. His passion coincided with the clear awareness that for the affirmation and maintenance of democracy were to be avoided without uncertainty the plebiscite tendencies, authoritarian, and the strong accentuation of personalism. He was therefore not afraid to say that the real parties are necessary. In one of his last speeches at the Senate Assembly, without giving in to the secular approach and at the same time inspired by his policy, he quoted with intelligent provocation Benedict Croce. Thinker, he yes, openly secular, who in a session of the Constituent invited all to gather and to sing the words of the hymn "Vei," creator Spiritus, mentes tuorum visit; light up lumens sensibus; infunde amorem cordibus!" Speaking those words Emilio Colombo wanted to say goodbye, with a touch of masterly poetry, from his Parliament and his country, with a mild, but firm, call to the sense of duty, responsibility, the search for that common good that exceeds the individual interests and realizes the unity of every institution, of every party, of every aggregation capable of living in time. It is no wonder that his heartfelt appeal to fight against the barrenness of the political system, against the prevalence of electoral techniques over the ideal confrontation, against the reduction of the institutions to the scene of a soulless game, exclusively voted for the show and the escape. For these reasons, Emilio Colombo considered the same bipolarism as a tiring and long process, denying it instead as an absolute formula of the soul, accepting it only when it will be able to answer a question of meaning, that is, when it will allow everyone to vote according to an idea and a hope freely linked to the fundamental values of a pluralistic society. Emilio Colombo is therefore an interpreter, a witness, an observer of a world that belongs to us and which he also helped to shape. His voice has not turned off, but remains in memory and memory as a lucid warning that without thought every action is sterile and empty. I am sure that I am expressing the unanimous sentiment of this House in expressing an affectionate greeting to the family members and collaborators of Emilio Colombo, and in inviting all colleagues to observe, in his memory, a minute of silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u7	Mr Zavoli (PD). Mr President, I am sorry if I take this short space of time between your introduction and my speech to speak in this tone of voice, which is a bit the result of the stunning speech you have been giving me this morning, and I would like to congratulate you on one verse, which has filled me with many flattery, but which has forced the House, the Senate, Parliament to devote me, thanks to your authority, of the compliments and wishes that have deeply touched my heart. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, after the President's complex and penetrating speech, I will of course stick to the de minimis that accompanies every life, and that I have learned directly from Emilio Colombo in this House too. The death of the last constituent transforms in a kind of message the faithfully belonging, and to the very end, to the true, extraordinary and immersive privilege of my life, as he told me right here, sitting in the first bench near the entrance of the hemicycle. On the day of the last speech given by his scranno to inaugurate, with the election of the summit of the Upper House (so with a speech addressed directly to her), this legislature, we exchanged the first words drawn from a confidence that had never touched such personal topics and tones: he was visibly happy to have received from the Chamber, that day, a unanimous consensus, expressed with a long applause. And I was certain, perhaps we all were a little, that in his heart that was the discharge. Emilio Colombo will remain the eminent figure of a policy he participated in in many positions and with the many responsibilities of his career, to say the same, leaving authoritative appreciation of the competence and dedication spent in the most difficult roles, drawing a prestige also due to the singular duration of what, with a tip of civetteria, he called the life of a kind of leader, to whom politics had put in hand the tools not to disfigure. In the annals, one can well say, of his laborious belonging to that world, he lived a lucid and coherent militia, testified above all in the subtle exercise of foreign policy, thanks to the most natural disposition of his talent. Born in a beautiful region and nevertheless atavically aware of the reality of deprivation and remoteness, in a peasant civilization close between the vineyards and the olive trees, it loved to remember a singular outlet at the sea of the Basilicata in the bottom of a language of invented land, it would be said, from the need for a mental gap (made of that transparency that you, President, has referred several times in your introduction), a movement of the soul that did not betray the solidarity of Rocco Scotellaro, the poet of grapes and laborers, nor Leonardo Sinisgalli, the poet of the...Civility of machines, and Giandomenico Giagni, the third of the Lucan poets, to whom we owe the invention of the "Teatro dell'usignolo", a memorable medal still on the chest of the public service radiotelevisive. In the almost patrician house of Potenza, where he had the amiability to keep me, he cultivated his life in the midst of that sort of civil oratory grown around him naturally, like a gentleman who, having taken the road to Rome, wanted to dedicate it, so the people felt, to his small homeland. He was 93 years old, as you said, Mr President. He was senator for life. He was Premier, several times Minister, President of the European Parliament. Estimated in the gates, not only on the continent. Held in honor of the Church; friend of the reformists; secularly degasperian. There was something abounding in the idea that clinging to a fellow citizen with those powers, and of that prestige, would justify the credit of the political man most voted, in proportion, of Italy. He wasn't a moralist. With a considerable variation compared to the Andreotian aphorism he loved to say that: "he who thinks the best defeats the worst". But when "Tv7" transmitted a service on a small town of his land, of only women all dressed in black because the husbands had emigrated - and wanting to live in that mournful way, as if they were many widows, to signal their mild protest - then President Colombo telephoned in Via Teulada to tell us, without so many periphrases, that we lacked the knowledge of the tragic, in that case of suffering and pride. He spoke with a bit of emphasis, which in the South often means not to enlarge one thing, but to explain it, feeling, not rarely, an emotion. The Constitutional Charter was his first faith and his last concern. Driven by a Christian humanism, never, for the truth, exhibited as a guarantee of his political belief, liked, and used, these words: The Constitution interprets that microcosm that is each one of us, around which the network of all other social realities unfolds; in which freedom is not declined as an abstract principle, but as an essential and permanent human condition; it was its last reference to something that applies to everyone and to everyone, but especially to those who fear to see it subjected to some undue trespassing in its integrity. "It is politics not only to build, even to avoid something," he said. It was a proof of his miscelebrated optimism; that of those who believe that it is also up to us, that is to say, the task - the psalmist says, but it is also up to politics - to make all things new. I remember him, at home, with his sister Anna - who was his friend, in some way even his mother - on the occasion of the Basilicata Prize, his proud, but not provincial, civic-literary predilection; and when, because of my work, I returned to question him for "The Night of the Republic," he gave me a speech on the cross, so he said, touched not only on Aldo Moro, but also on Italian democracy. He had lived that terrible experience with a painful and responsible fairness, attentive to the sensibilities generated by a national tragedy that required, he would say: "atrocious costs in which the "political ratio" and the "human motivation" do not have, one or the other, a designated priority over the serious question of rights and duties, ultimately of extreme proof: that of choosing in a marasma of reason and soul." He was an idealist without illusions and a realist with many hopes. As for Europe, of which he preached and demanded political unity as well. The extreme accents of his feverish invitation not to disturb an unavoidable design, he has spent it here, right here in this House. Once again, after a brief, very painful pause, he replied with his mind turned to a thoughtful, partial reform of the constitutional dictation, not renouncing to express the hope that that necessary and rational updating would not harm, in any way, the spirit of the most admired Charter in the world.In the name of a reason that denied the irreconcilability among civilians, inviolable principles, and the obligation, when necessary, to rule for an instance that understands, interprets and unites the whole country. Emilio Colombo, for example, was held to this. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, M5S, SCpI, Misto-SEL groups and government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u10	Comrade (GAL). Mr President, Emilio Colombo has abandoned us for a few months, but as you said, recalling the freshness, intelligence and prestige with which he had presided over our first day of work on the occasion, Mr President, of his election, none of us expected that today, in September, on the bench he preferred there would be only flowers. You said that on that occasion your admonition was for a Europe that could be strong and just. In his Europe, Emilio Colombo probably had Germany in mind, if not especially Germany. That day Emilio Colombo had presided with extraordinary elegance. I remember that he had also lovingly received a speech by my colleague Calderoli on the subject of iectorship, a very delicate theme for a man like Emilio Colombo, whose path had crossed in Europe, in Italy, in Lucania, in search of modernity, but never using violence at its roots. Emilio Colombo in Italian politics had represented the man at the side of Antonio Segni for the agrarian reform and - she said well - Guido Carli in monetary stability, but against the background of the ménage between Carli and Colombo I would put another great southern, Menichella, who, after Einaudi, had anticipated the Carli-Colombo line. The latter was a bit envyed to the reforming party, to the more central-left part of the center-left, to many socialists and Christian Democrats, but Emilio Colombo felt that it should also be presided over for a real and serious institutional issue. We would have experienced it years later, at a time when the relationship between the Bank of Italy and the Treasury would have been different. Arrived at the top of the government as President of the Council in the 1970s, Emilio Colombo found himself almost tossed on the other side; he was attacked by the center or center-right of the center-left for the excessive failures to the line of Giacomo Mancini, steel packages, promises to the Calabrian revolts and a certain prudence and tolerance in the matter of public order. But it was those very difficult years - Mr Zavoli told us them often and very well - in which the positions at the starting tapes were disputed for the election of the new President of the Republic. There was such an elbow agonism that, in the end, Giovanni Leone was elected, that is, history began from where the beginning of the Colombo Government had begun. Since then Emilio Colombo has still been to the Government as Minister for Foreign Affairs, but he has been above all a European of Italy, an Italian of Europe, clinging to that European tradition that Lucania had two generations before. I think of two great intellectuals, like Nitti and Giustino Fortunato. Mr President, you did well to remember, for the joy that Emilio Colombo had of it, that prize of Aachen, not so much because of the ampollosity of being dedicated to Charlemagne, but because Emilio Colombo received him after De Gasperi and Antonio Segni, the two Italians who had most counted for him, who had loved him, and because that line of resistance to the tactics of the "empty chair" of France, to the gollism of the Europe of the Patries, in the name of the European Homeland was rewarded. Emilio Colombo, among many Europeans in the history of Italy, could have had the merit of having been a Europeanist who loved England and had brought that country into Europe, whatever the responsibilities that he had assumed on that occasion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Comrade, please conclude your speech. Comrade (GAL). I'm about to finish. Today, at the heart of the political debate, after the German elections, there is a Germany that must return to being Europe with full responsibility, without any distress and pettiness of small cabotage: also for this Emilio Colombo we miss it in a heartbreaking way. With these sentiments, the Senators of the LAG Group will always try to honor his memory and continue to love him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u13	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Emilio Colombo, a constituent father, a leading statesman in the construction of Europe, President of the European Parliament, President of the Council and several times Minister, a life-long senator appointed by President Ciampi in 2003, after having been in Parliament by the constituent Assembly, of which he was the youngest member of our Group for Autonomies, is the historical, political and institutional memory of our parliamentary system. When he joined our Group, my and our reflection went to his inaugural speech of the XVII legislature as an opportunity to appreciate once again the distinctive feature of his institutional and political life, namely an absolute sensitivity and fidelity to the rules of the Constitution and the parliamentary system, able to regulate the comparison between different ideas, stories and positions, even more important if seen from the perspective, which belongs to me, of a linguistic minority. In the history of the Republican institutions, he constantly recalled, as an essential reference of his political thinking and of his institutional role, respect for the provisions and principles enshrined in the Constitution and the vision of an Italy whose indispensable reality is in united Europe. Thus, his inaugural speech of the XVII legislature was what today we can call a civil, political and ethical testament, where he said that: In the search for a useful synthesis for Italy, we will certainly support the constant reference to the Republican Constitution, together with the positive declination of the Parliamentary Regulations, the powers and duties assigned to us by the republican order in order to avoid a static opposition of the different cultural, ethical and political interpretations and an institutional paralysis; as well as when he reiterated that he believed in an honest and rigorous dialogue, which is then the essence of democracy, and the assumption of a common responsibility in solving the problems of the Country. The history of Emilio Colombo was the history of the Republic, the history of Catholics in politics and a centrist vision of its party, the Christian Democracy, in which the search for alliances had as its point of reference the teaching of Giuseppe Dossetti and Alcide De Gasperi and was the essential condition of a reform policy for the country. A political and institutional vision that, always recalling the spirit of the Constitution, has never intended to question the concepts of majority and opposition and a distinction and opposition of roles. The life of Emilio Colombo was a public life, in which his political philosophy and his profound institutional culture saw in Parliament what he defined as the heart of the Constitution as opposed to the affirmation of personal powers, because he has always stressed that there is no freedom when he wants to impose the cult of personality. For these reasons, as the President of the Republic of Naples said, he represented a tradition of genuine respect for democratic institutions. The Constitution was for Emilio Colombo the highest point of politics, whose most profound and coherent expression is in the Parliamentary Republic: the Constitution founded on the sense of the human person, whose rights it recognizes, according to the principle for which the human person is before politics, in a pluralistic dimension, which goes beyond the individualist conception of classical liberalism. Social pluralism and institutional pluralism are complementary to Emilio Colombo. Emilio Colombo's constant European projection was supported by a passionate vision of the European Union as a political community, a community of freedom and solidarity in which individual countries are called to a global commitment, in one of the smartest synthesis of Italian Europeanism. Hence his political and man-of-government sensitivity to minorities, history and constitutional reasons for our special autonomy. He placed the recognition of the autonomy, consistent with the great international choices that have marked the history of Republican Italy, in a Europe of peoples and coexistence, in whose institutions and in whose Constitution the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u16	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, senators and senators, when on 15 March of this year the senator Emilio Colombo inaugurated the Senate's work at the first session of the legislature, he was welcomed by the Assembly with a deep, unanimous and sincere respect, which I believe was not due solely to the age, the long political career and the decades-long experience of Italian and European parliamentarians, but to his ability to testify to the most precious legacy left to us by the Republican past: the Constitution. When he disappeared, just a few months after that inaugural session, on June 24th, Emilio Colombo was the last of the remaining constituents. When he was elected to that Assembly he was only 26 years old and was one of the youngest politicians called to lay the foundations of a new democratic Italy. In the following decades Columbus would have held very important positions of government: Minister for the Treasury, Foreign Affairs, Industry, Agriculture and President of the Council from August 1970 to February 1972, as has been mentioned. He was a party man, a leader of Christian Democracy, and therefore a partisan man, immersed in the political dialectic that animated that party, but with the passing of the years and decades the party militancy had increasingly given way to that in strenuous defense of our Constitutional Charter. Only the Constitution was his polar star, guiding his political choices. In his speech in this House on the occasion of his appointment as a Senator for Life in January 2003, he said this in both simple and clear terms: The Constitution is the platform that has allowed Italy to become what it is. I will monitor reforms: the principles contained in Part One are also reflected in Part Two. Each of us, depending on our positions, will express different judgments on the path of Emilio Colombo political man and party man. On the other hand, there can be no doubt about the judgment regarding Colombo, the man of the Republic, the Constitution and Europe. A convinced European, Emilio Colombo had been a European Member of Parliament and President of the European Parliament from 1977 to 1979. In that year he was also awarded the "Carlo Magno" prize, which was awarded each year to the person most distinguished in his commitment to European integration. His Europeanism remained very strong, even after the birth of the European Union and the single currency, but between the faith in the Italian Constitution and that in the united Europe there was no solution of continuity: the Europe that he and the Europeanists of his generation dreamed of was not the freezing one of finance, but the living one of a united continent, in which the same principles established in the first part of our Constitution could be applied. As a leader of the DC, Prime Minister and above all Minister of the Treasury, Emilio Colombo defended economic strategies and views different from ours, sometimes very far from those of the left; however, among the representatives of different political parties there was deep respect, and today often forgotten. It was not a question of bon ton, it was not a matter of formality: to determine that mutual recognition that prevented the political struggle to degenerate into fight from talk shows even in the toughest clashes was the consciousness of a basic commonality, of a common concrete represented precisely by the Republican Constitution. In one of the mornings that led to the election of the President of the Senate, meeting him for the first time I greeted him and said: "Good morning, President". I said this without thinking that Emilio Colombo had been President of the Council or of the European Parliament, but with reference to those live black and white broadcasts of the nascent RAI on the election of the President of the Republic. I was a child, even before elementary school (I am referring to May 1962): it was my first approach to institutions, to the State (the one with the capitals), and he was a protagonist. The protagonist of something that I didn't understand, and it was also in the subsequent elections, two years later, and then later. I didn't understand why he wasn't elected Head of State. This is the man who has incarnated institutions first of all, since they are free and republican. For this reason, today the only sincere tribute that can be paid not only to the last of the constituents, but to the entire political generation, is to defend their most precious legacy, to rediscover it as only possible common concrete of this country and to fight not to distort it, but to give it complete application. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u19	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are called upon to commemorate my colleague, Emilio Colombo, who was the last remaining member of the Constitution. He has been President of the Council several times, has been Minister, has been MEP, has been appointed Senator for life, has done many things in his long life. Died at 93, he participated in the whole Republican history, the first and second Republics: until 1992 he was in Parliament and then returned, after being appointed senator for life. I believe that Senator Colombo has also played an important role in the European field: regardless of the role of President of the European Parliament, he has nevertheless played in this area of the initiatives that have certainly contributed to the creation of the European institutions. The testimony, then, of his work certainly lies in the countless preferences he took when he ran for the 1979 European elections. More than repeat, in this House things said and praised already expressed by other colleagues who have preceded me, I believe that it is appropriate to recognize the important political role he has played over the years and, in any case, his intellectual honesty, which has also demonstrated in some difficult passages of his political experience. Having said that, however, as a League Group we cannot forget that Emilio Colombo's positions were often different from the ideas of our movement, which did not see in him, however, an enemy, but a proud political opponent, a colleague and a person with whom we were confronted in the awareness of having different thesis. Certainly Emilio Colombo had flaws, like all of us, but he certainly could not be ascribed to him the defect of hypocrisy: he loved to speak clearly. For this reason, with the same sincerity with which he used to express himself Emilio Colombo, we address to him our sincere greeting as parliamentarians, as Minister, as an important component of this assembly and as a person who helped our country to overcome and overcome significant challenges of our history. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u22	IN MAY (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confess a certain emotion, an emotion that stems from the fact that I never imagined it could have touched me, one day, to commemorate Emilio Colombo. In a society in which the chronicle metabolizes and devours everything in very narrow temporal spaces, confronting the history of Emilio Colombo means confronting the history of our country and the history of our democracy. I believe, then, that at a time like this there can be no room, neither for rhetoric, nor for hypocrisy. I will say immediately, therefore, that while Senator Colombo lived the highest and most important period of his political career - we are in the decade between the 70's and 80's - I, in that same period, was with the readings of Pier Paolo Pasolini and his indelible photograph that marked the Christian Democracy of that time as the dung of power. That Christian Democracy Emilio Colombo crossed it - if I may say so - in tiptoes. Of course, he counted, and his voice was heard and considered, but in the party he was never trapped or intruded. However, many of his governmental experiences, up to the Presidency of the Council in 1970. In 1946, at the age of 26, he was elected to the constituent assembly. He has known and frequented giants of Italian political history: De Gasperi, La Pira and Togliatti, just to name a few. Historic is the phrase of Pope Pacelli: "This Columbus will fly." He was also successful among those who certainly could not be regarded as his admirers. Montanelli, in fact, said of him: "The best Minister of the Treasury of Italy after the war". He was a convinced European MEP, to the point of receiving recognition for the high merits of the birth and development of the European Union. And it is precisely this man, on March 15, 2013, who presided over the first session of the Senate of the XVII legislature, that is, this legislature, which is also my first experience. On that day I remember sobriety, elegance, kindness of manners and manners, but also firmness in asserting one's role: so I like to photograph that Presidency of yours. In the era of liquid and virtual politics to many could appear the perfect image of the Gerontocrate; to me he seemed only a long-lived lord. And a successful old age like that of Emilio Colombo does not make it up: long you become, because you reap what you have sown. It is often said that the wealth and civilization of a people depend in the short term on the economy, in the medium to the politics and in the long term on demography. I am happy and grateful for the fate, then, after former scrapers and new asphalters, of having been able to chat on the benches of this House with a gentleman who has been able to cross the political history of our country from the Constituent until today. He wanted to speak to me precisely on the day that our Basilicata had risen to the honours of the chronicle for the graceful virtues of his political class. He was bitter, and to me, who reproached him for his blessing to those politicians, he politely replied: "Unfortunately, today in politics we arrive in Parliament or in the region like this, and he snapped his fingers. And he continued: "How to go to university without even doing middle school." He raised his eyebrows and sighed as if he wanted to prove me right. We greeted him and invited me to present his new book, "Where," he said, "you will find the many things I have done for our Basilicata." Unfortunately, he didn't get there that day. From Basilicata he had much and much I think he gave; there are certainly shadows in his political history, but I believe that, on the final budget, anyone who met him, removing his hat from his head, would say: "Welcome back, Mr. President". [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u25	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many speeches before my speech have told Senator Emilio Colombo, a man and a politician. Many have quoted names, assignments, and events that are now part of past history. Many of you have personally known him during the very long years of his activity in these rooms. I, as spokesman for the 5 Star Movement, have the simplest thing: I have communicated on the Net that today I would bring in the voice of the citizens; there are almost nine million of them who have been waiting for a lifetime to express themselves, and many have sent texts and thoughts in total freedom. Anyway, I'd like to start with a personal impression of myself. It was the first day in this House and I was still amazed that I was in these rooms. The beginning of the session was unforgettable when I saw Senator Emilio Colombo climb into the central chair of the Presidency. In that moment I did not see man, but I saw the symbol, the emblem, I saw the living witness, the last active architect of the Italian Constitution. Although the last of the constituent fathers has left us, the Constitution continues to be alive, enlightening and beautiful, handed down by the hands of those who wrote it in the hands of us Italian citizens, who struggle to avoid the disruption or, worse still, the looting attempted in these days, through the derogation of Article 138: robberies attempted by those who probably have not struggled, and sweated, and suffered, and suffered to write it. We of the 5 Star Movement are free citizens, free also to smile ironically at the statements that the elderly Senator Colombo made towards us, when he claimed in the first session: If the Senators of the 5 Star Movement show up without a jacket and tie, I won't even let them into the Hall. Of course, for a 93-year-old person, who has always been used to wandering around places where the form has its own dorotheal code, 54 citizens of who knows what political origin could at least destabilize the balance so firmly supported by the left and right. I wonder if you've ever thought, the tireless Senator Colombo, about why we're here today, and what was the spring that pushed us to put ourselves in the game. Perhaps the indignation, the indignation, the complete lack of confidence in this policy and in these men of power? And who knows if you will ever wonder what is the difference between the form and the substance, and through which channels they express themselves. He, who in the last years of his life was confronted publicly with personal issues of substantial embarrassment and style. How many jackets and ties have dressed here unworthy, corrupt and corrupt men, collused with the mafioso power, liars and thieves, tax evaders and vicious perverts. And who knows if, perhaps, at least in private, he advised them to quit the dress, take a thousand steps back, abandon the role and turn themselves in. But here are some considerations of citizens. Alfredo Ronzino writes: "If we want to pay homage to Emilio Colombo and, with him, to the Fathers all of the Constitution, we must first become aware and return to the source of every right, every justice and every truth: we must return to the heart!" Still writes the activist Stefano Mantellassi: President Emilio Colombo left; as a young man he participated in the drafting of the most beautiful Constitution in the world. And since that day he did not abandon politics and politics did not abandon him anymore. We of the 5 Star Movement certainly cannot approve the politics represented by him, his infinitely long career, the perpetuation of that professionalism of the power that we escape with extreme vigour and conviction. We certainly do not approve of the politician Emilio Colombo, but we can accept not to tread the hand on the man Emilio Colombo. At this time where condemned politicians continue to sit in Parliament, where the protection and arrogance of power are more blatant every day, the old politician who apologizes in public for a moral lack can only arouse us, if not admiration, at least much human understanding. Still writes me the network group PRESSappoco: Maybe some of you expect from the 5 Star Movement of criticism of Emilio Colombo. No, you don't. The dead in the cemeteries must be left alone. It is the dead who are still agitating in Parliament that we must fight. The 5 Star Movement is a revolution: the political man must become a temporary servant of the community, two mandates at most, and stop being the holder of a permanent status until death by old age. Still writes Mrs. Catiuscia Leonardi: "Dear Senator Emilio Colombo, we are hungry! Today there are pensioners who support three generations, namely themselves, children and grandchildren. One of them was my grandfather. But now he's not even here anymore. My mother is still there, but at the age of 60 she had to go clean up, with great difficulty and without protection. (...) I wish, dear Senator Emilio Colombo, that my words might awaken in his colleagues a shred of conscience and that closeness to the citizens who have long since been lost. In short, gentlemen, politics, with the earthly end of the last constituent father, closed a cycle, as if it were a metaphor of a new time coming, a storm, a tsunami. Rebellion, revolution, change, the struggle for human rights and for the common good pass mainly through the courage of young hearts, and Emilio was 26 years old when he participated in the drafting of the Constitution and at 26 years of age the so-called policy of partisan interest probably has not yet phagocited you. Emilio Colombo wrote: It is not possible to live only of austerity, the peoples also guide themselves with hope in the future. Well, with hope in the future, let us salute the new moving, inevitable and overwhelming star energy that will defend by sword treats the highest thing of its earthly passage. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u28	Viceconte (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, among the many definitions referred to in the national and international press to mention the figure of Emilio Colombo, perhaps what makes him the best is that for over half a century he has been a great lord of Italian politics. A Southern man with a truly international dimension, a politician with perhaps far too polite ways, a moderate who has never succumbed to the most populist and reactionary positions, an observant Catholic who has always defended the secularity of the State. A politician from the first difficult challenge, when as a very young Undersecretary for Agriculture arrived in Melissa to conduct a complicated mediation at one of the hardest moments of the peasant struggles, at the last exemplary lesson of style and politics given by President of the Assembly of Palazzo Madama at the start of this legislature. Between these two moments, over half a century passed as a protagonist in Italy and Europe, without ever forgetting the roots with its land of origin, the Basilicata. Arrived in politics directly from the militancy in Catholic organizations, deputy to the constituent Assembly at only 26 years, several times Minister and Undersecretary (we remember it for long years to agriculture, industry, the Treasury, foreign), President of the Council of Ministers from 1970 to 1972, elected European Parliamentary with the extraordinary record of almost one million preferences, President of the Assembly of Strasbourg, "Carlo Magno" award as personality who has contributed most to the process of European integration and, finally, Senator for Life, appointed in 2003 by President Ciampi for his very high merits in the political and social field. It is difficult to summarize in a few words the many stages of the extraordinary curriculum of what will be remembered as the last constituent Father: the protagonist of an extraordinary human and civil story that took its start from the benches of the Constitution, in contact with the giants of Italian politics, from De Gasperi to Togliatti, to whom the young Colombo, as he recalled in a book recently published, gave respectfully to her. Respect that did not prevent him from immediately showing off all his qualities: elegance, kindness, ease of human relations, but also political intelligence, tenacity, ability to understand the sign of the times and to anticipate processes and decisions. From the years of the agrarian reform - we remember him alongside Antonio Segni - to those of the economic miracle, from the first steps in the construction of Europe, to the strong initiatives to defend and revive the idea of integration even in the most difficult moments, such as the period marked by the French politics of the so-called empty chair, we always remember a figure of moderate and kind politician, but firm in his convictions and tenacious in the pursuit of the objectives. As Arrigo Levi recently recalled, its polar stars were Italy and Europe: two entities that can only be saved and grow together. There is no alternative, Columbus taught us, to strengthening a Europe that is the Europe of peoples and not just the summation of national selfishness. Just as Italy will be able to grow and strengthen itself, even in its international dimension, only if it does not leave behind the most problematic part of the country, that Mezzogiorno to which Colombo, as an authentic man of the South, has dedicated many of his energies. Even in recent years, despite his advanced age, he has never ceased to intervene, suggest and propose, even if politics seemed ever further from his ideals. Suffice it to mention his real testament-discourse on the European Union, delivered only two years ago in Lausanne. He has always had confidence in Europe and confidence in Italy. The conclusion of his book is almost a political and spiritual testament. "I have confidence" - says Colombo - "in Italy and in Italians. And I believe in the abilities that we undoubtedly have to overcome the serious difficulties that we have long considered. And this despite the fact that politics is living a opaque season from which it is called to redeem itself with its own strength and without supplements or delegations, but with supplements of soul and intellectual and moral courage. It is the resources of politics that will still have to be used, offering the best of our national virtues. And Catholics can still be a reserve of values and wealth for Italy. With these brief considerations we wanted to remind ourselves and the whole House of the figure of the Lucan, Italian and European Emilio Colombo. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u29	He asked the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we commemorate the last of the constituent Fathers who, following the proclamation of the Republic, participated in that noble and high mission of writing the Charter on which the institutional, civil and political life of our people is founded. A work that committed Emilio Colombo, then only twenty-six years old, together with the other Constituents, for 18 months in the drafting of a text that sanctioned the rediscovered union of Italians. Union, as Columbus himself had a way of saying, as an aspiration, as a value, as a defense of a community. Value that is still today a great topicality. It was a divided, destroyed Italy, no longer an idea of the future. I think this is the way we need to remember and historicize the value of a biography. Colombo was a young protagonist in the Catholic world, as you said, Mr President, and played an important role in the years of the economic boom when, as Minister of the Treasury of the Moro Government, our national currency obtained the Oscar of the lira as the strongest currency in Europe. For Europe Colombo has been spent from the first moment, leading the Parliamentary Assembly towards the first election by universal suffrage. I would like to remind you that his last commitment as a government was in 1992 as Minister for Foreign Affairs and, as Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities, I am obliged to remember Emilio Colombo's strong and determined commitment to restore the Sassi di Matera, destined to become a UNESCO heritage, and to strongly defend an idea of Mezzogiorno that is still very topical today. Devoted to the respect of the institutions of the State until the last one, he agreed to preside, as a dean of the House, at the first two sessions of this House, after the beginning of the legislature, at a very delicate time for our Republic. That is why we must and we want to remember him as the father of this democracy of ours in the respect he always had of our Parliament and of our democratic life; a respect that I think is all the more topical today, when we risk often losing sight of the general interests, the only ones to which we must always be voted and to which we must direct our commitment. These, President, are some of the significant traits of a biography for which Emilio Colombo, in his path and in his civil and political commitment, was a protagonist of our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u31	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1014.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u32	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the remaining amendments relating to the bill in title, submitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion contrary, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to proposals 11,206, 14,200, 13.0,500, 8,500/2, 8,500/3, 9, 9,208 (text 2), 11,101 (text 2), 10.4 (text 2), 9.19, 9.0,200 and to any other amendments which might be covered by the special funds. The opinion of nulla precludes amendment 4,500 (text 2) is conditioned, in accordance with article 81 of the Constitution, to the following rewording: "4- bis, to article 33, paragraph 1, of the law 12 November 2011, n. 183, are made the following modifications: " a) to the third period, the words: "90 million euros, for the year 2013," are replaced by the following: "91,3 million euros, for the year 2013, of which 1,3 million euros to be allocated to the cultural institutions included in the table referred to in article 1 of the law 17 October 1996, n. 534"; (b) the following shall be added to the fourth period after the words "financial character": "with the exception of those to be allocated to the cultural institutions referred to in the third period to be provided by decree of the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. 4-b. To the burden deriving from this article pairs to 1,3 million euros for the year 2013 it is provided by corresponding reduction of the authorization of expenditure referred to in article 10, paragraph 5, of the decree-law 29 November 2004, n. 282, converted with modifications from the law 27 December 2004, n. 307." Similarly, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, the opinion on amendment 5.6 is subject to the following rewording: Replace paragraphs 3 and 4 by the following: "3. The expenditure of 2 million euros for the year 2014 for the restoration of the Mausoleum of Augustus on the occasion of the celebrations of the bimillenary of the death of the Emperor Ottaviano Augustus is authorised. 3-a. The expenditure of 8 million euros is authorised, of which 1 million for the year 2013 and 7 million for the year 2014 to cope with interventions of particular importance, identified with a special decree of the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, in agreement with the Minister of Economy and Finance in order to ensure the respect of the balances of public finance: a) the protection of cultural assets that present serious risks of deterioration; b) celebration of special celebrations. 3-b. The decree referred to in paragraph 3-a shall be adopted, subject to the opinion of the competent parliamentary committees, within 90 days of the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree." Consequently, in Article 15, make the following changes: " In paragraph 2, introductory phrase, replace the words: 'In Article 5, equal to 3 million euro for the year 2013 and 11 million euro for the year 2014', with the following: 'in Article 5, equal to 3 million euro for the year 2013 and 19 million euro for the year 2014'; " In paragraph 2, after point (e) insert the following: 'e-a ') As for 8 million euros for the year 2014 through ulterior increase of the rates of excise referred to in article 14, paragraph 2, that guarantees a greater net revenue pairs at least to 8 million euros for the year 2014."""""" The opinion is without prejudice to all remaining amendments. Upon withdrawal of the previous opinion, the opinion is also without prejudice to amendment 11.73 and the same proposals. In order to coordinate Article 15 with the amendments already adopted, the same Article should be amended in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution as follows: (a) after the words: 'In Article 5, equal to EUR 3 million for the year 2013 and EUR 11 million for the year 2014', insert the following: 'in Articles 5-b and 5-c, equal to EUR 600,000 for each of the years 2013, 2014 and 2015'; (b) after point (a) add the following: 'a-a ') For the purposes referred to in Articles 5-b and 5-c, as regards 600,000 euros for the year 2013 by corresponding reduction of the appropriation of the special fund of current part entered, for the purposes of the three-year budget 2013-2015, under the programme 'Source and special funds' of the mission 'Sources to be allocated' of the forecast status of the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the purpose partially using the provision of the same Ministry and, as for EUR 600,000 for each of the years 2014 and 2015, by reducing the authorisation of expenditure referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1, letter b), limited to the current part of the decree-law 31 March 2011, n. 34, converted, with amendments, by law 26 May 2011, n. 75;'. After paragraph 2, add the following: "2-a) The provisions of Article 6 shall apply, from the year 2014, to the total expenditure limit of EUR 2 million, including extraordinary maintenance of buildings and any minor revenue for the budget of the State." The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the further amendment 10,500 relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as its competence is concerned, an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u35	MARINO Luigi (SCPI). Mr President, when I asked to speak, the House was chaired by President Grasso and I wanted to address him to try to understand the real reasons why the sitting was interrupted this morning. The senators and senators in this House were convened at noon, after a debate at the last meeting last week, to enable the 5th Commission to examine the amendments. In this way, work could have started in the Chamber at noon and - as it was said - would continue until they were exhausted, in order to approve the bill that converts the decree on cultural goods. On the other hand, despite the fact that the 5th Commission finished its work at 12.15 p.m., the sitting was closed and we resumed our work with the commemorations and celebrations. We arrived this afternoon when this decree could already be approved at the time I am speaking to you. I would ask you to understand the reasons why the Presidency had to suspend the examination of the amendments and the approval of the decree on cultural goods.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u36	I would like to respond, even if the Presidency has changed (I do not know if this diminishes the value of the answer to it). The Commission had completed its work, but the opinion was that - as you heard - it was read to the House. It will also take time to translate it into a document, which will be read to the House and annexed to the acts, after the debate in the Budget Committee. Evidently, if it were possible, it would have been done sooner.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u39	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the floor to address a situation that came about last week and I would like to clarify it before we start voting, so that we can deal with it calmly. Last week, we voted, among the various amendments, on Amendment 3.0.1, which included, for the organisation and conduct of the UNESCO World Forum on Culture, to be held in Florence in 2014, the expenditure of EUR 400,000. So this House has authorised an expenditure of EUR 400,000 for a UNESCO Forum to be held in Florence in 2014. We were a little skeptical, and our scepticism has been proven by the fact that UNESCO confirms that the World Forum will be held in 2015 in Monza, not in Florence. We have also checked the press and the UNESCO contact person in Monza, Dr. Filippo Carrese, and the Deputy Director of UNESCO, Dr. Francesco Bandarin, tell us that this event will be held in Monza in 2014 or 2015 and that from Paris - UNESCO headquarters - there is no alternative to the city of Monza. So the question I am asking, both to the rapporteurs and to the government, is this: what have we voted for, what has this House voted for, gentlemen? Perhaps we have authorized the expenditure of 400,000 euros for the event called Florence, which is something else, very different from the UNESCO World Forum? I would like to pay a little attention because, if this House votes on amendments that start from seemingly wrong assumptions, it turns out that confusion also arises with the administrators who are on the ground, who are working and going in a certain direction, also at cultural level and at international level (because the UNESCO Forum is an international event), while this House votes on something different. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u40	Of course, the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, who are here in this House, will be able to speak on this. We shall resume the examination of the amendments and agendas previously laid down. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on amendment 4,500 (text 2), of which the rapporteur has tabled a further rewording in order to transpose the conditions laid down by the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u41	Mr President, the opinion is in favour. The amendment provides for EUR 1.3 million additional to the Ministry's fund on cultural foundations. I am referring to cultural foundations such as the Accademia della Crusca, the Fondazione di studi di storia dell'arte Roberto Longhi and others 103, including the Fondazione Sturzo, the Fondazione Giacomo Rossini, the Fondazione Feltrinelli, the Accademia di scienze e lettere, the Italian Institute for Philosophical Studies, the Fondazione Benedetto Croce, the National Carlo Collodi Foundation and so on. They are all foundations that are ordinarily financed by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, to which the funds had been significantly cut in recent years, even of about one million euros between 2012 and 2013. This is how the fund is re-launched with EUR 1.3 million. I repeat that we are talking about 103 foundations throughout the national territory, which are absolutely relevant to the activity they carry out. I am therefore in favour of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u42	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u43	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,500 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u46	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, I welcome the rapporteur's opinion, but in the list of foundations included in this table, in our opinion rather old, since it dates back to 1996 (in the Committee on Culture we asked to update it, perhaps with different systems of merit), there is also the Bettino Craxi Foundation, chaired by the daughter of a fugitive, which we believe has little to do with culture. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u49	Barani (GAL). Mr President, you cannot allow a person who died in exile from his country to be told 'latitating'. ( [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Before we speak of this noble name, which has allowed them, with democracy, to come to this House, I believe that colleagues of the 5 Star Movement should also do an act of benevolence. Dead people never get involved. Whoever does this is a scumbag. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] . (Senator Morra shows that he wants to intervene.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u50	Senator Morra, what are you going to intervene on? Your Group has already run out of time and yet we have asked Senator Lezzi to intervene. MORRA (M5S). Can I reply? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, because there aren't times. [[Comments of Senators Martelli, who asks to intervene, and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u53	FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). (Senator Martelli still asks to intervene.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u55	What are you going to do about it? SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr. President, if you ignore the Five Star Movement... I didn't ignore him. His colleagues were allowed to speak despite the time at your disposal. SANTANGELO (M5S). Senator Martelli asks to speak on the order of business and you go ahead with the votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u56	[[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u57	Senator Santangelo, I would like to point out to you that your Group has run out of time and that Senator Lezzi has intervened anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u58	Now, for reasons of courtesy, let us give the floor to Senator Martelli, who can speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u59	Thank you, but it is not a matter of courtesy, but of law. Just to have a conscious vote, I would like to ask the rapporteur who would be this Giacomo Rossini to whom a foundation is registered. I wouldn't want us to talk about Gioacchino Rossini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u60	The rapporteur made his speech. The table is linked to a 1996 law and I read it earlier on the website of your parliamentary group, which published it. So you can easily find it on that site. [[Applause from the PdL Group]] . Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 4,500 (text 3), tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which have already been presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u61	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 5.6 (text 2), as reworded in order to transpose the conditions of the 5th Commission. Amendment 5,250 was withdrawn, and I call on the authors to withdraw amendment 5.1, otherwise the opinion is against it. I also object to Amendment 5,201, while Amendment 5.2 would be precluded by the adoption of Amendment 5.6 (text 2). Amendment 5.5 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u62	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u63	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.6 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call for the Commission's amendment 5.6 (text 2) to be voted by a simultaneous vote by electronic means. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. All remaining amendments with the exception of Amendment 5,250, which has been withdrawn, are therefore excluded. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which has already been presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u64	Amendment 6.30 was born during the debate in the Commission. It has been approved and provides for the stabilisation of a fund for the MAXXI Foundation, among other things in reduction, which however gives certainty over the coming years. On this amendment, I turn to the Government, which I expect to give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u65	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u66	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u69	Mr Lezzi (M5S). I would once again like to call on my colleagues from the PD and the PDL to decency, since we have had your little lesson on anti-fascism and there is no Italian who would give this money to Mrs Melandri. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rizzotti]] Not cultural foundations are being given these funds, but Mrs Melandri, who changed the statute of the Foundation to be paid. Gentlemen, look out! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u72	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I am extremely concerned about this amendment, such as the one on which I spoke earlier, but I have not received any reply. While the city of Florence was previously favored, and so Mr Renzi (in this Chamber I ask questions and they do not answer me and they still do not answer), Mrs Melandri is now in favour of Rome. This is the way of doing culture that is good for this Senate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u75	Mr BRAY, Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. I wanted to remind this House that the design competition for the new center for contemporary arts and the former Montello barracks was banned in 1998. It was won the following year, in 1999, by architect Zaha Hadid. 2000 is the year of the definition of the technical aspects, of the convention for the assignment and the design of the pre-design document for what will be the national museum of contemporary art: 13 years ago. In December 2002 the final draft is delivered and the call for tenders is issued. The total cost for the construction of this museum was 183,546,000 euros. The Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, the sole founding member, has conferred on the Foundation the building of the museum. MAXXI received €7 million in 2010, €4 million in 2011 and about €4 million in 2012 (year of the Commissariat). In 2013, against commitments of EUR 8 million, it received EUR 6 million. The resources come from a single fund, from which derive the resources for all Italian museums. The forecast of a stable contribution of 5 million euros per year intervenes to regulate and systematize the ordinary financing to be borne by the Ministry and thus modify the method adopted so far, which was to provide funds in response to punctual needs, sometimes monthly, through a planning that will be precise, punctual and transparent. This contribution guarantees the mission from which that museum was born, which - I want to repeat again - is the museum of contemporary art of our country. Within the framework of the stability bill, the Government's commitment will be to assess the possibility of creating a fund for contemporary art, which provides for co-financing with the local authorities of the territory where the different, multiple realities operating in this field are active. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u78	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u79	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 6.30 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which have already been presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u80	Mr President, in fact, the 5th Commission's opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution is contrary to all the amendments tabled in Article 7. However, I would like to take this opportunity to present the G7.15 agenda to the House on the issue of SIAE. This is a particularly important issue, which emerged very strongly in the debate in the Commission and also in this House. Since it cannot be dealt with in this measure, I would like to ask Mr Bray for specific commitments on this agenda. So I am reading the agenda G7.15, which has already been distributed (I am not sure, however, that it has been received by all the senators): The Senate, in the examination of the bill n. 1014 which converts into law Decree-Law n. 91 of 8 August 2013, in the matter of urgent provisions for the protection, the valorization and the revival of cultural goods and activities and tourism; considering the need to lighten the obligations in the matter of copyright for particular types of events, commits the Government to revise, in agreement with SIAE, the methods of collection of copyright, possibly on the occasion of the bill of stability, with particular reference: 1. live music events with a number of actual audiences of less than 200, providing for a single, reduced and flat rate; 2. the performances promoted by voluntary or social promotion organisations aimed at raising charity funds with a number of actual spectators of less than 200, hopefully providing for a complete exemption. I would ask the Government to accept this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u81	I invite the representative of the Government to speak on the agenda G7.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u82	The government welcomes him.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u83	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G7.15 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u84	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 8,500/1. On Amendments 8,500/2 and 8,500/3, on which the 5th Commission expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution, the opinion was opposed. On amendment 8,500, tabled by the rapporteur, as amended if sub-amendment 8,500/1 were accepted, the opinion was in favour. Amendments 8.1 and 8,250 have been withdrawn. I call for amendment 8,200 to be withdrawn, in the light of the Commission's opinion against it. I am in favour of amendment 8.2, which introduces a simplification of an old rule on cinema licenses, and 8.3 (text 2). Finally, I call on the Government to accept the agenda G8.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u85	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. However, I believe that on Amendment 8,500/1 there is a rewording proposed by Senator D'Ali that we should probably consider.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u86	Senator D'Alì, have you tabled a rewording of amendment 8,500/1?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u87	Mr President, I believe that this amendment, on which I appreciate that the Government has expressed a favourable opinion, should further specify that the rights that must be held by companies in order to gain access to the benefit are those relating to the work for which they are required to benefit. Otherwise one could imagine a very large restriction of the audience of the beneficiaries, which would almost vanish the article. My intention is to avoid a concentration of facilities and therefore I propose a reformulation in the indicated sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u90	Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. Mr President, Senator D'Alì sent me the new text which specifies that rights are related to the work on which the benefits are sought. In this way the point about which Senator D'Alì spoke is taken, without generalizations: it is specified that it is the work on which, if necessary, tax breaks are asked. The amendment is therefore reworded specifying that the rights are related to the work on which the benefits are required.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u91	We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 8,500/1 (text 2). FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on amendment 8,500/1 (text 2) and on all amendments to Article 8. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8,500/1 (text 2) tabled by Senator D'Alì. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 8,500/2 and 8,500/3 are impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 8.2, which will be considered as a sub-amendment to amendment 8,500 and therefore put to the vote as 8,500/4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8,500/4, tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1014
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u94	Mr Azzollini (PdL). Mr President, I note that reformulations are still being made in this House. I have followed perfectly the rewording of amendment 8,500/1, which was of a legal nature, and that is why we accept it, but I call on the Presidency to monitor these rewordings, as some of them could lead to burdens.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u95	There is no doubt, Senator Azzollini. In this case, however, it was a marginal fact. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 8.3 (text 2) which will be considered as a sub-amendment to amendment 8,500 and therefore put to the vote as 8,500/5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8,500/5, tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,500. Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 Nominal vote by simultaneous vote CHAIRMAN. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8,500 tabled by the rapporteur in the amended text. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendment 8,200 is therefore excluded, while amendments 8.1 (text 3) and 8,250 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G8.0.1 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which have already been presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u96	I call on the authors to withdraw Amendments Nos 9,200 and 9.1, 9.2, 9.3, 9.4, 9,202 and 9.5. I am in favour of Amendment 9.6. Amendment 9.7 would be precluded by the adoption of amendment 9.6. On Amendments 9,8, 9.9, 9.10 and 9,204 there is the opposite opinion of the Budget Commission. I call on the presenter to withdraw amendment 9,203. I am in favour of the G9.10. The rapporteur was redrafted by the authors of amendments 9,205 and 9,207. Therefore, apologizing to President Azzollini, who rightly called us to greater attention, I ask the presenters to illustrate the new wording, also to understand if this requires a coverage. I call on you to withdraw Amendments 9.12, 9.13 and 9.07, and I am against Amendment 9.15. In accepting a request from the 5th Commission, amendment 9,500 is amended as from 30 November 2013 to 31 December 2013. I am in favour of amendment 9.17 (text 2), which received the 5th Commission's opinion as a result of the modification of the previously envisaged coverage. I withdraw, on behalf of the Commission, Amendment 918 on which there is the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission, I would ask you to withdraw Amendments 9.19 and 9.208. I would also urge you to withdraw Amendment 9.0.200. Finally, I welcome the G9.10 and G9.16 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u97	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u98	Senator Petraglia, do you accept the invitation to withdraw Amendment 9,200? PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do the presenters accept the call to withdraw amendment 9.1? DI GIORGI (PD). Yes, ma'am, we'll withdraw him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Montevecchi, do you withdraw amendment 9.2? Montevecchi (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.2. FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on Amendment 9.2 and all other amendments to Article 9 of the Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 9.2 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Do the authors accept the call to withdraw amendments 9.3 and 9.4? DI GIORGI (PD). We withdraw them, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 9,201 has been withdrawn. Senator Montevecchi, do you accept the invitation to withdraw Amendment 9,202? Montevecchi (M5S). No, Mr President, I would ask that it be put to the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9,202 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendment 9.5 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9.6 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendments 9.7 and 9.8. In view of the 5th Commission's opinion in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 9, 9, 11 and 9,204 are improcable. Amendments 9,203 and 9,210 have been withdrawn. I would ask Senator De Petris to explain the proposed reformulation of amendment 9,205. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the rapporteur had called for the rewording of amendments 9,205 and 9,207, which I tabled together, among others, to Mr Taverna. As far as we are concerned, since the intention was to exclude from any form of public contribution all live shows using animals, in the reformulation there are incentives for shows without animals. On the other hand, the remainder of the amendment has been transformed into an agenda, which I turn over to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u101	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment 9,207 (text 2), to which I have tabled a sub-amendment. My intention is to point out to my colleagues that sensitive issues, such as the issue of circuses and the use of animals in live shows - there are about 9,000 people working in this area - should be considered for a moment and not addressed, instead, with amendments tabled at the last second, in which we talk about animals. I would point out that talking about incentives for shows where animals are not used means excluding, for example, the use of horses: if in a circus there is one who does Zorro on horseback, you can no longer do it or, better, you are encouraged not to do it. Then I inform the senators - since we are looking for crumbs for culture - that the management of Italian kennels costs 600 million euros per year of public money. So let me make a joke: let's get the dogs to work, then! I remember that there are avalanche dogs, rescue dogs in earthquakes, dogs for the blind: then there can also be dogs that show. In my sub-amendment, which is reasonable - unfortunately this subject is developed without debate - it is expected that, if we want to encourage the circuses that disband the animals, including the horses - circuses that are naturally destined to die, because the public does not go there, as is well known - we do not go to find money from the fund for the show of the travelling circuses (I remember that the cover to encourage them is taken from that poor fund that allows the Italian circense tradition still to exist). My sub-amendment then states that if the Minister and the rapporteur want to encourage those who do not use animals in any form (including horses and dogs) in circuses, they do not go to withdraw money from the fund that keeps all the Italian circuses, which are a glory of the Italian spectacle: they are a tradition and represent a culture. I therefore ask my colleagues to vote on my sub-amendment, which makes it possible not to give a final and fatal blow to one of the most illustrious traditions of our country's history and culture. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u104	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I was a signatory to the original amendment 9,207 and I welcome the rewording made by the Commission, albeit reductive. Dear Senator Giovanardi, disinformation in this House is wrong. Talking about circuses with animals doesn't mean talking about culture: it means talking about non-culture [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris]] , at a time when popular sensitivity now demands in all regulatory areas not to exploit animals. Too bad you did the same work on the experimental amendment. GIOVANARDI (PdL). I don't run kennels! CIRINNA' (PD). It is clear to you and to my fellow senators who, in a positive and intelligent way, will be able to assess for themselves the importance of this amendment, specifically that in amendment 9,207 it is not expected that circuses with animals will be expunged from the background of the show. We accept what the Commission has asked, namely not to encourage them. Therefore, they will continue to have their money, but not the incentive, which will instead be aimed at all those shows, traveling and not, that will be characterized by the fact that they do not exploit the animals. I remind you, Senator Giovanardi, that citizens are far ahead of us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] While the circuses with animals are empty, the Cirque du Soleil, which comes to Italy only for a few shows, is always in overbooking: it is so full that it does not satisfy even the requests of the tickets on reservation. GIOVANARDI (PdL). In fact, it's failing! CIRINNA' (PD). Then we must also be interpreters of what the citizens ask us to be. This Senate, then, will have to prove that it is at the forefront. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u107	REPETTI (PdL). Mr President, the amendment tabled by Senator De Petris, which also bears my signature and which together we have reworded differently than it had been presented, is, in my opinion, a necessary step forward for a country that wants to be described as civil. It is an amendment which, in fact, merely encourages the disposal of the use of animals in circuses and shows, without, however, putting in any way, those who work in this type of activity. In fact, time and economic opportunity are given to convert their business. In any case, the reformulation proposed by the rapporteur, although it is little compared to what we had revised and proposed in our reformulation, represents in this desert of sensitivity - I would like to stress this, because this is a desert of sensitivity - is a small result. I therefore welcome it, at least as far as I am concerned, and I would ask that the specific part of the amendment that we are asking for be simply converted into an agenda. [[Applause from Senators Bonfrisco and Giro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u110	AMATI (PD). Mr President, I would simply like to say that I had only signed Amendment 9,207 and that, therefore, I would also add my signature to Amendment 9,205. I agree with what my colleagues have said: the attention of Italians to animals is now a common feeling. In my opinion, the obvious distance of politics from this issue shows how far away we are from the people. I therefore invite you to pay more attention and to have a vision much more related to the concrete than also to the management of the topic of circuses. By now, in fact, animals can be seen very well elsewhere. The suffering that can then be seen in the videos for the domestication of animals is so well known that it is really exhausted. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u112	You have the floor, President Azzollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u113	In the light of the previous remarks and the various rewordings that have followed, we must understand what text will be put to the vote, as well as the opinions of the Budget Commission. Mr Azzollini (PdL). Mr President, the opinion, made pursuant to Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure on amendment 9207 (text 2), is of nothing to prevent the following wording from being added at the end of the period: "in the context of the resources allocated to them". It is understood that reference is made to the resources that the FUS assigns to the exhibitors circus activities and travelling shows without animals, as well as to the exhibitors of contemporary circus, within the resources assigned to them. [[Applause from Senators Carraro and Repetti.]] GIOVANARDI (PdL). That's not good. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, Senator Azzollini speaks as President of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u116	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Mr President, since the FUS is more extensive, my sub-amendment 9207/1 proposes that those who do not have horses in the circus should be encouraged. However, in the sub-amendment I wrote not to take these resources away from that small part of the FUS intended for traveling circus, in order to avoid condemning others to death. To Mr Azzollini, therefore, I agree that the resources to encourage should be taken by the FUS, but not in the part that concerns circuses. In this way we will kill all the Italian circuses to encourage those who do not have horses.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u119	Mr Azzollini (PdL). Given that, as usual, I am referring exclusively to financial compatibility, and therefore not to substance, I note that the conditional wording of the Budget Commission is intended to ensure that the resources are allocated in accordance with the criteria laid down in paragraph 1. The wording of amendment 9,207 (text 2)/1 was rejected because it does not provide such a guarantee, since it provides new incentives for other sources which could thus be discovered. I hope I made myself clear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As far as I'm concerned, yes. I hope the same is true of this House. Mr Azzollini (PdL). This is the point on which the Budget Committee gives a clear opinion on Amendment 9207 (text 2), with the condition that I have explained earlier. For the same reason, I am opposed to Amendment 9,207/1, arguing against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk. GIOVANARDI (PdL). That's not good. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi asked Senator Bondi to intervene. It is the Presidency that gives the floor, not the senators. BONDI (PdL). Mr President, I would like to address my friend, Senator Carlo Giovanardi, who belongs to my own parliamentary group, of course, to tell him that the problem seems very simple to me, and this should also remove the various divisions. We are faced with a change of sensitivity in Italian public opinion in recent years towards the representation of animals in shows, and also in circus ones. The circuses themselves are trying to get in touch with this change in public awareness. Therefore, I think that, in the specific case, it is not a question of penalising already too penalized circus activities, which represent an enrichment of our national tradition, but of helping, supporting and accompanying their conversion in order to put them more in tune with the change of the sensibility of the Italians. [[Applause from Senators Bonfrisco and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u123	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, on a point of order. Under Rule 86, it is forbidden to speak twice in the same debate. I therefore urge you to have the Rules of Procedure applied, which is mine, ours, and everyone's. Senator Giovanardi spoke for several minutes in the same debate. However, we could not even intervene on the order of business. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u124	Senator Santangelo, you are intervening because you asked to do so, and you intervened beyond the time allowed to your Group. The Presidency accepts its point of order. I would remind you, however, that a rather complex reformulation of opinions was under way, which the House has lived live and which has led to a plurality of speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u127	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to accept the addition that the President of the Budget Commission, Senator Azzollini, has asked to include in the rewording of the amendment, and to say that the path we are taking is in the spirit of helping the circus to exist. Otherwise, the circus with animals will drag with it the whole history of the circus shows of our country, precisely because of the increased - fortunately - sensitivity that there is about it in Italy. [[Applause from Senator Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u128	At this point, ladies and gentlemen, we must first examine Senator Giovanardi's sub-amendment, on which President Azzollini has expressed his opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u130	As President of the Budget Committee, she has the right to speak again. However, the House has already acquired its views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u131	Mr Azzollini (PdL). Mr President, since we are talking about sensitivity, I would like to reiterate that our opinion refers exclusively to cover. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Azzollini, this is known to the Presidency and the House. It is clear that the opinions you have expressed are related to the coverage.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u134	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, having worked on this subject for five years, I have to say that the amendment on the absence of animals in circuses convinces me. However, with just as much clarity, I say that we are talking about something else compared to scientific research: we are talking about circuses. So let us not confuse the areas and not bring the issue to a level that would not see us, at that point, in consonance. There is, however, one aspect that is very important. In terms of cover - as President Azzollini said - any tax relief and any incentive is fine. It must be clear that the Single Fund for Performing Arts, which in our country already has the size of a thintte, cannot be further cut. We have already seen in this very important decree the impossibility, highlighted by the Committee on Budgets, of intermediate bodies. Public stable theatres are already considered as any other institution. We have had a cut of more than 7% in public theatres and stability. We have an increase in the lyrical foundations which is justified only by the dramatic situation and by the commitment to solving the problem. Therefore, we cannot now take all this part and penalize it on the subject of circuses, because it would be unacceptable. The world of entertainment is already in great difficulty because it does not have a system law. There is no law in our country that considers the show a cultural part. There are no guarantees of welfare for the entertainment staff. Frankly, taking away money from them in order to devote them to something very important that - I repeat - I share, it seems to me frankly too much. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u137	I would remind you that we must then move on to complex votes on a matter of great external importance. D'ANNA (PdL). Mr President, as part of this vexed question, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether those who blow up fleas, as animals, are covered by the ban. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, I don't think it's time to introduce another issue. We're talking about the circus. I would like to point out to the rapporteur that we have to start with the agenda - in the progressive order we have Amendment 9,205, which has been transformed into an agenda - which you have accepted. I call your attention to the government and President Azzollini, because the demanding part... Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. I do not think I have given an opinion on the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask you then to give your opinion on the G9.205 agenda, which replaces Amendment 9.05.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u138	Mr President, I would like to express my opinion on Amendment 9,207 (text 2), the sub-amendment and the G9.205 agenda, because it is clear that the subject is so sensitive that it has an overall significance.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u139	After all this discussion, an update is needed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u140	Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. Mr President, on this issue, it is clear that the House needs to work not with an amendment to a decree-law of the Government, but with a more general attitude. If the changes in the way the public and the country feel about this matter are effective, I think that perhaps - then they will evaluate colleagues - the time is ripe to work on a bill that provides for a different regulation. With regard to the specific issue, following the rewording requested by the 5th Commission, I am in favour of amendment 9207 (text 2), because it gives a guideline, but above all the possibility for the Government to progressively influence the issue. The 5th Commission has, from what I understand, expressed its opposition to the sub-amendment. I therefore ask Senator Giovanardi not to insist on the vote. As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G9.205, having said that there is a need for new legislation, I believe that it gives the Government too strict guidelines and I therefore turn to it, albeit with this type of assessment. I therefore only welcome Amendment 9207 (text 2), as has been reworded by the signatories and the 5th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u141	The G9.205 agenda concludes - as the rapporteur said - with strict constraints, because it provides for a zeroing of funds from now to 2018. For this reason, the rapporteur believes that this matter should be dealt with in depth. I call on the Minister to express his opinion on the G9.205 agenda, on which - I repeat - the rapporteur has expressed some doubts.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u142	Mr President, the Government gives a favourable opinion on the G9.205 agenda. [[Applause from Senator Cirinna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u143	I read the plan of the agenda G9.205, drawing the attention of President Azzollini: "I commit the Government to foresee, in the next measures, a progressive reduction of the contributions, from the Single Fund for the show referred to in Law 30 April 1985, n. 163, to exhibitors circus activities and travelling show with animals until reaching the complete zeroing of the contributions in the financial year 2018 also regarding promotional, educational, training, editorial activities, related to circus activities with animals, circus activities with animals abroad, the Academy of circus and circus festivals." The agenda provides for a zero, and for this reason, perhaps, Senator Marcucci expressed doubts as to the strict validity of the amendment. The Minister gave a favourable opinion. So I ask Senator Azzollini if he has anything to say in terms of cover. [[Senator Carraro's protests.]] Senator Carraro, I have addressed President Azzollini as a senator empowered to answer this question. Mr Azzollini (PdL). Mr President, we do not express ourselves on the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur to speak on the G9.205 agenda. Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. Mr President, thanks also to your timely reading, as rapporteur I am going back to the House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall then proceed to the vote on the G9.205 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u146	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I think I have to make a speech on this matter, albeit minimally. In this House, I believe I am more experienced than others in animals, and also in ferocious animals. While the others go to the circus to see the wild animals, I keep them in the house. It's made known to everyone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Without incentives or public contributions. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I'm not trying to get incentives. I believe that the theme is not linked to the presence or not of the animal in the circus to tie the contribution to this. The problem is how the animal is treated. If we are not able to control those who treat well and those who treat animals badly, to cut completely the funding to people who treat them with love, and not as they are treated in some circuses, it is equivalent to throwing away the child and the dirty water together. Therefore, on this agenda, my vote will be against. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u147	I would remind you that on this agenda, which has been accepted by the Government and on which the rapporteur has referred to the House, a request has already been made for a vote with the electronic system by Senator Falanga and support has already been verified. I would remind you that this request extends to all the amendments tabled in Article 9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on the G9.205 agenda presented by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. On Amendment 9.12 there is a call for withdrawal. Senator Montevecchi, do you welcome him? Montevecchi (M5S). Yes, Mr President: I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is also a call for withdrawal on Amendment 9.13. SERRA (M5S). Mr President, we do not withdraw it and insist on the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Serra and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 9.13, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendment 9206 has been withdrawn. We move on to Amendment 9,207 (text 2)/1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. GIOVANARDI (PdL). I would ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Giovanardi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of sub-amendment 9,207 (text 2)/1, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9,207 (text 2), which has been reworded in accordance with Senator Azzollini's additional comments as President of the 5th Commission. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 9,207 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 9.15 tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9,500 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 9,500 (text 2) tabled by the rapporteur. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendment 9.16 has been withdrawn and transformed into the G9.16 agenda. I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to reiterate their opinion on Amendment 9.17 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u148	Mr President, on Amendment 9,17 the 5th Commission asked for an amendment concerning financial cover. The rapporteur's opinion was favourable, subject to verification of the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u149	Yes, but there is also President Azzolini here, if we are talking about cover.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u150	Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. It has already had the clearance of the 5th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u151	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u154	D'ALI' (PdL). Mr President, I should like to make it clear. Amendment 9.17 is included in the list of amendments and, before that, amendment 9.17 (text 2). I would like to understand what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u155	We are about to vote on Amendment 9.17 (text 2). We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.17 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of Amendment 9.17 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendment 9.18 has been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 9.19 is impervious, while amendment 9.208 (text 2) has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G9.10 and G9.16 will not be put to the vote. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 9.0.200 is impervious. 18.22 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u158	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I have been asking for an answer to Amendment 3.0.1 since the beginning of the vote, which we voted on last week. At the moment we are moving forward to vote - in favour, against, abstaining - on confidence, but we cannot continue to do so when neither the representative of the Government nor the rapporteur gives us an answer. It's like you're being teased. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u159	Senator Centinario, when the rapporteur gives his opinion on the amendments, he will also be able to give you this answer, so as to do some economics in the context of the speeches. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). But we are still voting without knowing anything! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since we have already voted on it, it can also give it at the end of the opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u162	PADUA (PD). Madam President, I would like to ask whether it is possible to turn Amendment 9.0.200 into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u163	I would ask the rapporteur to give his opinion on the change of amendment 9.0.200 to an agenda. In any case, Amendment 9.0.200 provides for an authorisation of expenditure, so its transformation into an agenda is somewhat complex. Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. It is necessary to have the text of the agenda in order to be able to express the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u166	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I have tried to speak before - unfortunately, however, I can never draw the President's attention - on Amendment 9,208 which did not include any commitment to expenditure, since the burdens were not borne by the State but by the institutions. In any case, I accept the call for withdrawal, partly because that is what the 5th Commission has said. This is a real problem, because it is neither in heaven nor on earth that we allow compensation to be given to administrators of very small museums or very small foundations, while to the entertainment agencies, which have budgets of millions and millions of euros, it imposes an honorary office with enormous responsibility. I would therefore ask the Government whether at least it accepts this amendment in the form of an agenda and to consider this issue which - I assure you - is putting in great difficulty many Italian entertainment agencies.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u167	Senator Panizza, I would invite you to draw up the agenda so that it can be evaluated by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government and then put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u170	CALIENDO (PdL). Madam President, I have asked to speak because my colleague in the League has put forward an issue which will pose a serious problem. I will be forced not to vote on this measure if we do not take note that there has been a lack of information about an amendment that has been approved. In fact, we decided that the UNESCO World Forum on Culture and Cultural Industries will be held in Florence in 2014, ignoring - because nobody told us - that there were already agreements between the Lombardy region and UNESCO to make it, as every year, in Lombardy and held in Monza in 2015 on the occasion of the Expo. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups.]] I would ask that a review of the matter be considered because of the lack of information to the senators when voting on that amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u171	Senator Caliendo, I would make a unitary intervention, assuming that, if a provision that presents a problem was approved, bicameralism, at least in this case, will help us. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u174	Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. Madam President, the reason why I did not reply to Mr Centinario first is that he can objectively highlight aspects that have emerged in the last few hours - but this is not the case - in relation to an in-depth amendment and a subject that have been voted on, first in the Commission and then in this House. However, the question is not at all as it has been raised. As we will remember, in Monza there were the UNESCO Forums of 2009 and 2011. Also in Monza there will be - I presume - also the Forum of 2015, and since today I invite the Government, even on a particular occasion that binds this event with the Expo, to intervene in a consistent way with respect to it. In Florence the Biennale of the Arts was scheduled for 2014, which was converted, with the UNESCO agreement, into a Forum that will always take place in 2014, on which was given funding - relevant, for goodness sake - sufficient for such an important event, but which absolutely does not go to mayor on the programs compared to Lombardy. As a matter of fact, I can assure you of my full support, for what it's worth, for the 2015 event. I also declare that perhaps the affair was created by a misunderstanding that emerged at a meeting between representatives of Parliament and the institutions with the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs Giro, who has the delegation on UNESCO, and some Italian diplomats, in whom this circumstance was announced. Maybe that's how a misunderstanding came about. I apologise to my colleague, Mr Centinario, but it did not seem appropriate, at a time when other articles were being discussed, to come back to an issue that has already been voted on and debated. I believe that clarification is sufficient. I don't know if the Minister wants to add anything else. But this is the information on which we then decided to proceed in regulatory terms. I still apologize to Senator Centinario if this has caused a delay in his reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u177	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I think that Senator Centinario has been clear in representing our sensitivity to the problem that has emerged and how we approach the whole measure and the fact that there have been areas of cooperation that cannot be implied. Now I don't know where the rapporteur is... (Senator Volpi smiles)...and I prefer not to ask questions, because we are getting used to it. This provision is becoming - as it was once called - a tip law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Minzolini and Floris]] Having said that, Mr President, I would like to make a proposal. Since we are dealing with this issue - and I would ask you and the Lombard senators for their attention - and I believe in the good faith of the rapporteur, I propose that the rapporteur himself table an amendment to the measure in which the funding for the Monza event is immediately put in place the year after what has already been financed. Sounds like a normal proposition to me. There's no problem. Since we stop for so many events, we can stop now for five minutes: the rapporteur makes a proposal, talks to President Azzollini and finds - as was done for MAXXI and Florence - the coverage to give money also for 2015 in Monza. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u180	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I would just like to remind you - I steal a few seconds - that the amendment we voted on was clearly about the UNESCO World Forum and not about the event the rapporteur was talking about. With regard to the UNESCO World Forum in Monza, the Lombardy Region has allocated 40,000 euros. For a second-floor UNESCO event, this government in Florence allocates 400,000 [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u181	I give the floor to the senators who asked for it, and then I would urge you to put the matter aside. If it is not sufficiently clarified, it will continue in the Commission later. I urge you to move forward in the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u184	Formigoni (PdL). Mr President, the agreement that I signed as President of the Lombardy Region, also supported by the then Minister for Culture, explicitly provided for the city of Monza as the seat of the UNESCO World Forum on Culture and Cultural Industry. I do not believe that Italy can expose itself to an international figure by withdrawing from a commitment made by one of the most important regions, but also by the then Minister of Culture in office. I believe that the misunderstanding can and must be resolved and it must be confirmed that this is the event to which the Italian Government gives its support. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] VOLPI (LN-Aut). But what does the government say? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The government will intervene in the end.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u185	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u187	FALANGA (PdL). I believe that the rapporteur's last speech has confirmed the goodness of the considerations made by Senator Caliendo. There were basically ex post explanations, i.e. after the amendment was adopted. I would ask you, Mr President, and the rapporteur to suspend the sitting briefly in order to try to find an organic arrangement for the whole measure, since we are going towards the final vote on the law, unless we see what will happen and reserve the right to vote differently than my Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u190	BONDI (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a duty to confirm what Mr Formigoni has just said. The UNESCO Forum, dedicated to cultural heritage, was an initiative born from an agreement between the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities of the time and the Presidency of the Lombardy Region. The commitment was to continue to carry out the UNESCO Forum in Monza at the Villa Reale, also to enhance this cultural site. Another thing is the Biennale of culture, which has been realized for very laudable purposes in Florence, but which has nothing to do with the contribution provided for in this law, which - I must say with great bitterness - is not a tip law. It seems to me rather a Renzi law, given the contributions given to Florence. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u191	I now pass the floor to the government. If this issue is not clarified and needs further consideration, I believe that the Commission will be able to do so at the end of the sitting. In the meantime, let's move on with the remaining articles that are not conditioned by it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u192	I would like to point out to the senators that Amendment 3.0.1 was tabled in the Senate and is not from the Government. I should also like to point out that, rightly, the seat of the Forum is decided by UNESCO, which has the authority to take such a decision. I do not understand from Ambassador Lomonaco that the decision has already been made, but if the choice were to fall on Monza it is clear that there will be all the commitment of the Government to this demonstration take place in the most respectful way of the dignity with which these forums have been held until today.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u193	It seems to me that this has been clarified. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calderoli, I would ask you to put this matter at the end of the sitting. We have concluded the debate on this point, which also concerns an amendment which has already been voted on and which is therefore not the subject of the debate. I therefore believe that it can be deepened later.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u195	Would you like to speak on the order of business? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President, and also to make a proposal that can lead to a solution to the problem without any subsequent suspensions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, come in. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). The President made a precise reference to a particular event of international and global interest, but it is a biennial event. The heading of the amendment reads: "UNESCO World Forum..." and this is reflected in the text of the amendment. If in coordination, i.e. in the final corrections, the title of the heading were corrected by specifying that it is not the UNESCO World Forum, but the one indicated by the President, the problem would be solved both in Florence and in Monza.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u196	Senator Calderoli, although the coordination is voted on later, I think that the Commission should still meet on this. I would therefore refer the matter back to the end of the sitting, after we have moved on with the examination of the amendments. It seems to me to be a substantial change on which - I repeat - the Commission will have to meet. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u197	Madam President, on Amendment 10.1, the 5th standing Commission has taken the opposite view and I therefore call on the authors to withdraw, otherwise, the opinion is against it. The same applies to amendment 10.2. Since the 5th standing Commission has also expressed the opposite view on Amendment 10.3 the rapporteur, on behalf of the Commission, withdraws it. Amendment 10,250 was also withdrawn by the rapporteur, as were Amendments 10,4 (text 2) and 10,500, given the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission. Amendments 10,200 and 10,201 have already been withdrawn. As regards agendas, the G10.100 is very similar to the G10.500 agenda presented by the rapporteur. This is an extremely important issue. The agendas are also very strict towards the Government because they concern a very important issue for all the foundations and structures that deal with culture, stable theatres and foundations of various order and degree. This is the famous list of intermediate consumption and the recent measures of the Government that obliges a heavy reduction and a heavy cut. Since the 5th standing Commission has expressed its opposition to all the amendments in that direction, I necessarily support these two agendas and call for a great deal of attention to be paid to them by Mr Bray, because I believe that an important solution must be found in the future. I also voted in favour of the G10.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u198	On Amendments 10.1 and 10.2, the opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur. Compared to the agendas, the topic is so important that it commits the Government to find a solution, because I would like to remind you that the problem concerns some cultural institutions that would be severely penalized in their activity, and I think of the Crusca, the Lincei or the Piccolo di Milano. So in the law of stability there will be the government's commitment to find the best solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u199	As the government has accepted the agendas of the G10.100, G10.500 and G10.0.1 will not be put to the vote. Senator Petraglia, do you accept the invitation to withdraw Amendment 10.1?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u200	Yes, Madam President: I withdraw Amendments 10.1 and 10.2. We would have liked to have turned these amendments into agendas, but since there is already the G10.500 agenda accepted by the Government on the same issues, we would like to add the signatures of the presenters of these two amendments to the G10.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u201	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u203	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I would like to have some clarification from the rapporteur, Mr Marcucci, on why Amendment 10.4 (text 2) is withdrawn. How is it possible for the 5th Commission on a certain budget to say that there is no coverage, if 3% of that certain budget is spent on culture? Mathematics is not an opinion: if the funding is there and is certain, instead of spending 100% of that appropriation in infrastructural activities, 3 certainly is given to culture: among other things, the cultural projects to be financed are chosen by agreement between the Dicasteries of cultural assets and infrastructure, as has always been the case in the past years.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u206	Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. Madam President, I would also like to reply to Senator Barani in order not to create misunderstandings, as happened earlier. In fact, I quite share the reasoning that has been made, so much so that we have debated this point in the Commission, we have taken note of the measures that have recently been adopted by the Government, with the restructuring and reorganization of Arcus company and we have expressed a favourable opinion on this amendment. It is clear that in the face of a very clear position on the part of the 5th Commission, in institutional terms too, I will stick to the opinion expressed by the Commission and withdraw amendment 10.4 (text 2). The issue remains open, and I believe that the Government will address it in the next steps.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u209	Barani (GAL). Madam President, after what the President of the Commission, Senator Marcucci, has said, I request the vote on Amendment 10.4 (text 2). The reason for this amendment is that infrastructure, during its implementation, is damaged to the landscape, and would therefore have been repaired by using 3% of that appropriation. Eliminating this rule will continue to cement, point and only, without remedying the damage caused by infrastructure works. The budget Commission cannot give an opinion against it, because it has no title, and that is not the case. The rule we're voting on now has always been there, and now we're going to take it down. I therefore call on the President of the Budget Commission to revise his opinion, so that the House can express itself. If not, I would ask for the vote on Amendment 10.4 (text 2) under Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, as an amendment from the Commission, does he intend to do so? Barani (GAL). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u210	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u212	Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. I can confirm that I can only stick to the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission and therefore I must confirm my opposite opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u213	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, previously made by Senator Barani, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 10.4 (text 2), withdrawn by the rapporteur and made by Senator Barani. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendments 10.3 (text 2), 10,250, 10,500, 10,200, 10,201 and 10.0.2 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u214	Madam President, I rise to explain Amendment No 11.9 which is similar to Amendment No 11.27. This amendment aims to introduce in the decree, in particular in this article concerning foundations, the invitation for foundations to verify that in the course of banking relations held when obtaining trusts the banks have not applied anatomical interests over the years. In this article, in fact, it is expected that the lyrical-symphonic foundations will reconstruct and renegotiate the debt, and we believe that in the restructuring and renegotiation of a debt it is essential to check in advance that they have the requirements to be able to exercise a credit, and therefore at that stage to be able to assert a right of compensation, also given the situation of serious crisis in which the foundations are located. It seemed to us to be a sensible amendment, but it was rejected, and that is why we call for the common sense of the Minister and propose it again to the vote of this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Amendment 11.30, on the other hand, is designed to ensure that the appointed special commissioner is identified on the basis of criteria of merit and of proven ability in the task he is required to perform, because they point out that in recent years there has been a waltz of armchairs that has meant that people who had been placed in certain positions to restore critical situations have not actually achieved the objective. This too therefore seems to us to be a sensible amendment aimed at ensuring that the Extraordinary Commissioner has demonstrated his ability to play the role. Finally, I would like to explain the G11.100 agenda, which refers to another critical issue that has been raised by those who work in the sector. With this agenda we commit the Government to ensure that criteria of homogeneity are introduced in the compilation and drawing up of the budgets of the lyric-symphonic foundations, so that they can be easily legible and comparable and comparable among themselves, so that they can arrive at an allocation of possible reward resources. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u215	Madam President, I would like to say that I have tabled the G9.208 agenda which replaces Amendment 9.208.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u218	BONDI (PdL). Madam President, I would like to remind the House and my fellow senators that we are talking about a very important issue, that of lyrical-symphonic foundations, which we have been debating for many years. In your reply at the end of the general discussion, Minister, you did not mention the law of reform of the entire area of opera foundations, approved by the Berlusconi Government. Perhaps he did not quite do so, because that was an attempt to reform this sensitive and important sector which provoked wild reactions from the left, and from the trade unions in particular, which prevented its implementation. In fact, with this government, that reform law is basically abandoned. That was, however, an attempt to reform, while the measure under consideration actually continues to throw state money into a bottomless pit. If then there had not been the savage reaction of the left and the unions against an important law of reform - which included, among other things, the autonomy of the Teatro alla Scala in Milan and the Accademia Nazionale di Santa Cecilia in Rome, two very important points of that provision - maybe today we would not be faced with the need to repay for the umpteenth time with the money of the State, with the money of Pantalone, the debts accumulated by the lyric-symphony foundations, with the complicity of the corporate unions, which do not make the interests of the workers, but of an existing situation that can no longer stand, and this not today, but for many years. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]] So you keep throwing the state money in a cauldron, in a well that doesn't have a fund. The measure at our examination provides for 75 million euros for the lyric foundations, of which I believe 25 or 30 will go to May Fiorentino: again the word "Firenze" occurs. Am I mischievous if I think this government has an eye on the mayor of Florence Matteo Renzi? [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups.]] Unfortunately, Minister, this tip-off law, as it has been defined, is full of favours and has opened a hole: in fact, to please, having an eye on the subject, the mayor of Florence has opened a hole in which everyone has rightly entered (Milan, Venice); perhaps many have remained outside, because unfortunately they do not have support in this House, and I do not think this is particularly right, since it is not already an omnibus measure, but an overall, general measure. Twenty-five million euros in May Fiorentino: here, I think, in a few years, Minister, we will again be forced to reopen this practice, pouring new money into the chests of lyrical-symphonic foundations, without ever achieving a radical and serious reform of this sector. There is also one last point I would like to highlight, ladies and gentlemen. This rainy funding, this lack of reforms can also go well: one can give up reforms, I understand that. I fought for reform, but this government may well not make reforms. But to make a measure by distributing rain finance, by resorting to higher taxes... president. Senator Bondi, you should finish if you want to leave the floor to the other members of your group who asked for it. BONDI (PdL). You are right, Madam President, and I apologise. There is an increase in taxes: that is the point. A measure is being approved which again finances without any reform, again, the culture sector using taxes, forcing Pantalone, again, to pay through an increase in taxes. That's not good for me. [[Applause from Senator Rossi Mariarosaria]] I am therefore not going to vote in favour of this amendment or the measure in question. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups and Senator Albertini.]] This in a personal way, without engaging in any way the party to which I belong. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u219	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment 11,206 in particular and then some amendments concerning the statutory changes of foundations, which I would like to bring to the attention of the rapporteur and the Government. Amendment 11,206, which has been affected by the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission, is, however, intended to indicate the effort we have tried to seek and obtain from the Government to change the coverage of this measure: it is certainly, as Mr Bondi said, state money, but it is money from citizens and businesses. This measure - perhaps at the end of the day, when we deal with the cover article - is based on a levy from the so-called pay-business decree of the local authorities and a significant increase in excise duties, which has grown as amendments from the Commission were adopted. So, of course, it aggravates our difficulty to continue to press on the world of consumption, when these days there is a strong debate about this issue, trying to find the resources not to increase VAT. I therefore consider Amendment No 11,206 to be a front measure, and I know that perhaps it will not be put to the vote. The other set of amendments concerns some changes to the proposal for the reform of the statutes of foundations, especially with regard to public and private participations. I am of the opinion that the mayor's participation as president is indispensable. In a large institution, such as a lyrical-symphonic foundation, technicians can find a place in the roles that are best suited to them (superintendents, artistic directors), they can also sit on the board of directors, but the mayor's responsibility cannot then be mediated or hidden by the screen of a president appointed by him, which a tomorrow may no longer coincide with the assessments of the economic strategy of the foundations and therefore of the local body that governs him mainly. So on this point, I would like to ask for attention. I believe there has also been a debate within the Commission and perhaps there are also opportunities to amend the original text of the Government. Similarly, the importance that must be given to private partners must be strong and authoritative. When we deal with Article 12, I will say what my thoughts are about the future livelihood of these entities through the decarbonisation of liberalities, and therefore through the involvement of the entire society in the maintenance of culture in our country. We are the only country in which a citizen, in order to be able to support an initiative, a lyrical-symphonic season, a single representation, receives no gratification from the State and no percentage of tax relief compared to its effort to support culture. Now, if a society cannot coagulate around artistic and cultural phenomena, it has no future and no hope, in my opinion. So I will ask you to turn my amendment to the de-taxation of liberalities on the agenda, putting back to the Minister the commitment to submit as soon as possible a bill to Parliament that can really do yes, I do not say what it used to be like at the time of the big clients, but certainly now in a modern key, that Italy can represent the will of the entire civil society of the country to support this sector. Having said that, I hope that the Government will accept my suggestions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u222	MILO (PdL). Madam President, I would simply like to take back what Senator Bondi has already said better than I will. No voice has risen on this measure, as it happened years ago with the previous measure concerning the world of culture. In all the decree-law in question there is no mention of the treatment of the plan of return, stabilization, of the lyric foundations of our country, or of the consultation with the unions. Mr Minister, I am referring not only to the many amendments I have tabled to this article, but in particular to a part which I consider shameful, because with paragraph 19 of Article 11 we bear in mind what has been done by lyrical-symphonic foundations illegal and illegal in all these years. In other words, we are going to repeal a rule with which so many precarious workers in this sector have been harmed and, while we stabilize so many precarious workers in our country, with the decree-law under consideration you, Minister, send hundreds of workers in this sector in the middle of a road. I see you nod, and I'm glad, because that's the truth. Amendment 11,209, which proposes replacing the last period of paragraph 19 of this Article, provides instead for the stabilisation of the staff you want to put in the middle of the road. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u225	SCILIPOTI (PdL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with the remarks made by Senator Bondi and for this reason I shall vote against the amendment and against the measure without calling into question my party's line. However, on the amendment and the measure my vote will be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u228	FLORIS (PdL). Madam President, I think I have to speak today in this House because for ten years I was the President of the Cagliari Opera Foundation, as mayor of that city. I absolutely support the reasoning of my colleague D'Alì, who believes that the mayor is really the person most interested in the good performance of his foundation; we in Cagliari have certainly created a strategic axis around the theatre, but we also made sure that the organic relationship was maintained, with many sacrifices of both the city and the autonomous region of Sardinia. Dear Senator Bondi, this is one of the few articles that I can approve of, because it provides something, albeit in a small way, for the Opera Foundation of Cagliari against the 25 million that are given to May music in Florence. I mean that the situation of Cagliari or Sardinia is the same as that of Tuscany and Florence seems really absurd and it seems to me that the 25 million should go towards the foundation of Cagliari rather than Florence, because in the South finding sponsors becomes almost impossible, unlike what happens in Tuscany, if it is true that some Tuscan is also putting back the Colosseum. Although I share Senator Bondi's view, I shall vote in favour of this article and the whole measure. Mr. Minister, there are children and stepchildren, even in culture. Since Sardinia is an island, it is not easy to get out of it to take advantage of and enjoy the shows produced in other regions. I ask that the lyric foundation of the Cagliari Theatre be kept in sufficient consideration and - I say more - even in such a consideration as not to want to mortify it with a truly residual financing. This is the only article that concerns the island of Sardinia. I have seen many other articles containing interventions distributed in all other regions: rightly in Pompeii, for goodness sake, but perhaps less rightly in other regions and for other works of art. I really recommend Sardinia with the foundation of the Opera House in Cagliari. I say more: we have no precariousness, except to a very small extent. However, with regard to the reduction of staff, to which we have strictly and scrupulously adhered under the law, even that cut of 30% or 50% of the staff would be tantamount to wanting to close our foundation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u229	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u230	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, the communication she has at her disposal one minute, after which the time available to the People of Freedom will be totally exhausted and therefore I will not be able to give the floor to other Senators of the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u231	I have the right to speak, but I ask you to be concise.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u232	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (PdL). Madam President, I would also like to thank you for the minute which, although short as time, confirms the need to cover all the space necessary to add elements of reflection to the debate that has opened up on this measure and also on this article. We could say that it was a mirror debate of the times, Minister, because in the debate we talked about the tip law, we noted, with regret, that there is still, during a period of time, a situation of serious geographical conflict between various areas of the country, which naturally claim economic resources to their bell towers. The appearance of precarious workers remains unresolved. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague and my friend, rapporteur, we still have a few hours to consider what the vote on this measure will be. Of course, observing from Puglia and Bari, and recalling the Petruzzelli Theatre, I say that we could have done more and better to put before the history of our theatres and foundations a perspective, not only flourishing in terms of the capacity and governance of the sector, but also in terms of the use of resources and employment prospects that give refreshment to those workers who are still in conditions of serious precariousness, moralizing a sector where there have also been serious abuses. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u233	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u234	Madam President, I am opposed to Amendments 11, 11, 11.2, 11.3 and 11.4 or, better, to withdraw them. I am in favour of amendment 11.5, which is identical to the following 11.6. I am in favour of amendment 11.7. I am also opposed to Amendment 11.8 and call for its withdrawal, and I am in favour of Amendment 11.9. On Amendments 11,10, 11, 12, 11, 13, 11, 14 and 11, 15, the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I am against Amendment 11,201 and I am in favour of Amendment 11,16 (text 2). On Amendments 11,17 and 11,18, the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I am in favour of Amendment 11,202, which is identical to Amendment 11,203. On Amendments 11,19, 11,20, 11,21, 11,204, 11,205, 11,23, 11,24 and 11,25, the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I am in favour of Amendment 11:27. I call on the authors to withdraw Amendments Nos 11.28 and 11.29, otherwise I am against them. I would also like to express a favourable opinion on amendment 11.30, provided that it is reworded in the sense that, after the words "reclamation" are deleted, the words: "of institutions and/or foundations in difficulty preferably operating" are deleted. If Senator Montevecchi accepts the rewording, the rapporteur's opinion is in favour. I am in favour of amendment 11.31 (text 2) by the Commission. Amendment 11.33 was incorporated into amendment 11.31 (text 2). I am also opposed to Amendments 11,206 and 11,34, or to the call for withdrawal. On Amendment 11.35 the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I am opposed to Amendment No 11,36 or call for withdrawal and for an opinion in favour of Amendment No 11,37. I am against Amendment 11,207, and also Amendment 11,39, which I would like to withdraw as an alternative. The Commission's amendment 11,250 incorporates the opinion of the 5th Commission, which amended it and, therefore, the opinion is in favour. On Amendment 11.41 the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I am also in favour of amendment 11,103 from the Commission. I therefore call on the authors to withdraw Amendments Nos 11,43 and 11,44, otherwise the opinion is against it. I also support Amendment No 11.45, which is identical to Amendments Nos 11.46, 11.47 and 11.48. Amendment 11.50 is incorporated into amendment 11.45. I am therefore against Amendment 11.52. Amendment 11.53 is incorporated into Amendment 11.45. The opinion was opposed to Amendment 11.54. On Amendment 11,56 there is a call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it. On the other hand, the opinion is in favour of Commission amendment 11.57, identical to amendment 1.59, which, if adopted, incorporates amendment 11.61. On Amendment 11,62 there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission. I call on the presenters to withdraw amendment 11.63 because, if it were adopted, even with only EUR 10 or EUR 100 you could become members of the foundations. I call on the authors to withdraw amendment 11.208, otherwise the opinion is against it. Same speech as for Amendment 11.65. On Amendment 11.66 the opinion was in favour. On 11.67 there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission. I call on the presenter to withdraw amendment 11.68, otherwise the opinion is against it. On Amendment 11,69 there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission. On Amendments 11,70 (text 2) and 11,71 the opinion was in favour. Amendment 11.72 is incorporated into amendment 11.57. On Amendments 11,73, 11,74, 11,75 and 11,76, the opinion is in favour, while it is against Amendment 11,209 in view of the Commission's opinion against it. I call on the authors of Amendment No 11.77 to withdraw it and to incorporate it into Amendment No 11.93. On Amendment No 11,79 there is also a call for withdrawal, given that there is a Commission agenda on this subject, the G11,400, on the trienniality of the FUS, on which I invite the presenters to join. The same goes for Amendments Nos 11,78, 11,210, 11,83 and 11.84. I call on the authors of Amendment No 11.86 to withdraw it in order to incorporate Amendment No 11.93, which nevertheless provides for a premium in the payment of the FUS funds to the virtuous foundations. I call on the authors of amendments 11,89 and 11,90 to withdraw them. On the other hand, I am in favour of Amendment No 11.91, while the opinion is against Amendment No 11.92. On Amendment 11,93, which provides for the premium of 5%, the opinion is in favour. The same is true of Amendment No 11.94. On Amendment No 11.95 there is a call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it. On Amendment No 11.97 (text 3) there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission. I call on the authors of Amendment No 11.99 to withdraw it so as to incorporate it into the agenda G11.401. On Amendment 11,101 (text 2) there is the opposite opinion of the Budget Commission, and therefore it is withdrawn. As far as the agenda is concerned, I am against the G11,200. Instead, the opinion was in favour of the agendas G11,100, G11,300, G11,400, G11,401. On the agenda, Mr G11.38 and Mr G11.0.1 the opinion was opposed. On these last two agendas, a softer statement of government commitments would be desirable, so we call for a reformulation by the presenters. In the event of a change, we will then deliver the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u235	I call on the Government representative to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion and also to reply to the questions raised in the speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u236	Madam President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. For the sake of respect and due attention to the observations made, initiated with the intervention of Senator Bondi, I would like to respond by retracing what I have been allowed to say in my speech. The measure - it is a first measure, of course - was taken in the face of an emergency situation. I would like to remind you that the debt of lyric-symphonic foundations is now more than EUR 340 million. The situation is such that it would probably force five or six of these foundations to resort to the state of liquidation. So the government has been faced with this situation, which - let me say - has made no choice of rain financing. It would be enough to see that, among the requirements required, there is the definition - I believe for the first time - of an industrial plan, which involves certain commitments. One of these commitments stipulates that new debt cannot be used in the three years; another concerns the identification of suitable solutions to bring the foundation, within the three following financial years, under asset conditions. I would also like to say that no action has been taken against one or another foundation, because - I repeat - at least six are at risk of liquidation. I would also like to point out that some of the first signs of reform in the decree are present: I think, for example, that the superintendent will be asked to follow carefully the balance of the budget, which has never been achieved to date. It is certainly a first measure, Senator Bondi, but I believe it goes in the direction that everyone wants, namely that we do not continue to give the necessary resources to bring the foundations into balance, as has happened so far (which, among other things, has not even allowed the balance, otherwise we would not find ourselves in debt of 340 million euros), but it wants to give those rules of good governance and good administration that I think we all hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u237	Senator Milo, do you accept the call to withdraw Amendment 11.1? MILO (PdL). No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on Amendment 11.1. FALANGA (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments referred to in Article 11. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Falanga, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Senator Petraglia, do you accept the invitation to withdraw Amendment 11.2? PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). I'm gonna drop it, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Milo, do you accept the invitation to withdraw Amendment 11.3? MILO (PdL). No, Madam President, I maintain the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.3. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.3 tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Senator Milo, do you insist on voting on Amendment 11.4? MILO (PdL). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.4 tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.5, which is identical to Amendment 11.6. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.5, tabled by the Commission, identical to amendment 11.6 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.7 is therefore incorporated. Amendment 11.8 calls for withdrawal. Senator Bonfrisco, do you welcome him? BONFRISCO (PdL). Yes, Madam President. CALIENDO (PdL). Madam President, I shall do it myself and insist on the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.8, tabled by Senator Alberti Casellati and other senators, withdrawn by the presenters and made by Senator Caliendo. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.9 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 11.10 is impervious. Amendment 11.11 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u238	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u239	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u240	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we withdraw amendment 11.12 and turn it into an agenda, the text of which we are going to present to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u241	Okay. The opinions of the rapporteur and the government will then be given later. Amendment 11,200 has been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 11.13 and 11.14, which are identical to each other, and 11.15 are impervious. A call for withdrawal was made on Amendment 11,201. Senator D'Alì, do you welcome him? D'ALI' (PdL). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.16 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.16 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment 11,17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.17 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 11:18 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,202, which is identical to Amendment 11,203. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11,202, tabled by Senator De Poli, identical to Amendment 11,203, tabled by Senator Alberti Casellati and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 11.19 and 11.21 are impervious.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u242	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u243	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u244	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we also withdraw Amendment 11.20, on which there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission and we turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u245	Okay. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G11.12 and G11.20 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 11.22 has been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 11,204, 11,205, 11,23, 11,24 and 11,25 are impervious. Amendment 11.26 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11:27. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 11:27, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment No 11.28, on which there is an invitation to withdraw. Senator Centinario, do you insist on voting? Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Yes, I insist. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.28 tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment No 11.29, on which there is an invitation to withdraw. Senator Bocchino, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u246	Madam President, I would like to ask the rapporteur for the reasons for his opinion to the contrary, because the extraordinary Commissioner appointed by the Government, whose decree we want to ask for steps for the Commissions, has very important powers: he receives the recovery plans, supervises their implementation, can take acts and measures also as a substitute. The fact that the decree of his appointment passes to the Commissions means giving Parliament even more importance to express an opinion on such an important figure. I would ask the rapporteur to give reasons or change the opinion. It is only a matter of making the competent Commission express itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u247	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u248	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u249	Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. Mr President, I confirm the opposite view, because this is a typical function of the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bocchino, do you insist on voting? BOCCHINO (M5S). Yes, Madam President. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bocchino and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 11.29. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. The rapporteur on amendment 11.30 called for a rewording consisting of the deletion of the words "of institutions and/or foundations in difficulty" preferably operating in the following areas. Senator Montevecchi, do you accept the reformulation? Montevecchi (M5S). I accept. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.30 (text 2) tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.31 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.31 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.33 is therefore excluded, while amendment 11.32 has been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 11,206 is impervious. On Amendment 11,34 there is a call for withdrawal. Senator Milo, do you insist on voting? MILO (PdL). I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 11.35 is impervious. On Amendment 11,36 there is a call for withdrawal. Senator Bencini, do you insist on voting? BENCINI (M5S). Yes, I insist on the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bencini and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 11.36. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment No 11.37. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would therefore like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.37 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 11,207 is impervious. On Amendment 11.39 there is a call for withdrawal. Senator Bencini, do you insist on voting? BENCINI (M5S). Yes, I insist on the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Bencini and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 11.39. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.40 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,250. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,250 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 11.41 is impervious. Amendment 11.42 has been withdrawn. Amendment 11,300, identical to amendment 11,103, has been withdrawn. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 11,103. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,103 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. A call for withdrawal has been made on Amendment 11,43. Senator Montevecchi, do you accept this invitation? Montevecchi (M5S). No, Madam President, I insist on the vote. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11:43 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. A call for withdrawal has been made on Amendment No 11.44. Senator D'Alì, do you accept this invitation?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u250	I am sorry, Madam President, but I would like to insist on the vote on Amendment No 11.44. I am absolutely convinced that the mayor should be present in the foundation, that there should be no repeated sub-government posts and that the mayor should assume his responsibility and also govern the foundation; then there will be all the possible roles of supervisors, artistic directors and so on. This is too important an entity even in the balance of the city's politics so that the mayor can evade any responsibilities, or perhaps refer to decisions that he did not participate in. I am absolutely convinced that this task so configured must be held by the mayor and should not give rise to the possibility of feeding sub-governments even detrimental to the same foundation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u251	Senator D'Alì, I remember your group running out of time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u252	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u254	Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. Madam President, we actually come from an experience in which the first citizens had direct responsibility for the management of foundations, and I do not think it has been a successful experience in most foundations. In this case, the opportunity is given to continue to play this role directly, if it is considered to be able to do so (also because it is a role in which very specific professionalism is required also in administrative terms) or, if it is not considered to have such characteristics, it is given the opportunity to delegate. I believe that in the interests of good management it is important that we take the opposite view on this amendment which would deny this kind of opportunity. I therefore confirm the opposite view.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u255	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.44. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.44 tabled by Senators D'Alì and Floris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.45, which is identical to Amendments Nos 11.46, 11.47 and 11.48. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.45, tabled by the Commission, identical to amendments 11.46, tabled by Senators Giannini and Di Giorgi, 11.47, tabled by Senators Liuzzi and Floris, and 11.48, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other Senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.49 has been withdrawn. Amendment 11.50 is absorbed by the adoption of amendment 11.45. Amendment 11.51 has been withdrawn. Amendments 11.52 and 11.53 are foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 11.45. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.54. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.54, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.55 has been withdrawn. A call for withdrawal has been made on Amendment 11.56. Senator Bocchino, do you accept this invitation?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u256	Madam President, we have checked that it is already included in Article 9 (2) and (3) and we therefore withdraw Amendment 11.56.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u257	Amendment 11.58 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.57, which is identical to Amendment 11.59. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.57 tabled by the Commission, identical to amendment 11.59 tabled by Senators Giannini and Di Giorgi. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.60 has been withdrawn. Amendment 11.61 is absorbed by the adoption of amendment 11.57. Amendment 11,62 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 11,57. There is an invitation to withdraw amendment 11.63: do the authors accept it?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u258	Madam President, we withdraw Amendment 11.63.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u259	Amendment 11.64 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u260	There is a call for the withdrawal of amendment 11.208, identical to amendment 11.65, otherwise the opinion is against: do the authors accept it?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u261	Madam President, we withdraw Amendment 11,208.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u262	Madam President, we withdraw Amendment 11.65.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u263	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.66. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.66 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 11.67 is impervious. There is an invitation to withdraw amendment 11.68: do you accept it, Senator D'Alì?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u264	Yes, Madam President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u265	In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 11,69 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.70 (text 2). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment No 11.70 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.71. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,71 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11.72 is absorbed by the adoption of amendment 11.57. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.73, which is identical to Amendments Nos 11.74, 11.75 and 11.76. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.73 tabled by the Commission, identical to amendments 11.74, tabled by Senator Milo and other senators, 11.75 tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators, and 11.76 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Amendment 11,209, on which the 5th Commission's opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution is opposed, is precluded by the adoption of amendment 11,73. On Amendment 11.77 there is a call for withdrawal. Do the presenters welcome him?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u266	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 11.77.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u267	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u268	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u269	FALANGA (PdL). Madam President, on Amendment No 11,209 the Budget Commission has expressed an opinion against Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u270	In such cases, however, it may be requested that the amendment be put to the vote by means of a reinforced procedure. FALANGA (PdL). Thank you, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On Amendment No 11.79 there is a call for withdrawal. Do the presenters welcome him?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u271	Madam President, I withdraw amendment 11.79.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u272	There is an invitation to withdraw amendment 11.78: do the authors accept it?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u273	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 11.78.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u274	Amendments 11,80, 11,81 and 11,82 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u275	On identical amendments 11,210, 11,83 and 11.84 there is a call for withdrawal. Do the presenters welcome him?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u276	Yes, Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 11,210.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u277	I also withdraw amendment 11.83.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u278	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment No 11.84.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u279	Amendment 11.85 has been withdrawn. On Amendment No 11.86 there is an invitation to withdraw: do you accept it, Senator Liuzzi?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u280	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment No 11.86.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u281	Amendments 11.87 and 11.88 have been withdrawn. On Amendment No 11,89, identical to Amendment No 11,90, there is an invitation to withdraw: do the authors accept it?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u282	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment No 11.89.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u283	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment No 11.90.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u284	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.91. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would therefore like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.91 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. Senators D'Onghia, Di Biagio and Di Maggio report that they were unable to record their vote. We shall now move on to Amendment No 11.92, which has been voted against. Senator D'Alì, do you insist on voting? D'ALI' (PdL). Yes, I insist. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11.92 tabled by Senators D'Alì and Floris. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.93. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,93 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.94. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 11,94 tabled by the Commission. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1014 PRESIDENT. On Amendment No 11.95 there is an invitation to withdraw: do you accept it, Senator Liuzzi? LIUZZI (PdL). I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 11.96 has been withdrawn. In view of the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 11.97 (text 3) is impervious. On Amendment No 11.99 there is a call for withdrawal. Senator Di Giorgi, do you welcome him?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u285	Yes, Madam President: I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u286	Amendments 11,100 and 11,101 (text 2) have been withdrawn. On the agenda, Mr G11,200, the rapporteur and the government voted against: do the presenters insist on your vote? BONFRISCO (PdL). We're pulling him out. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The G11.100 agenda was accepted by the Government: the presenters insist on its vote, how is it in their willingness? Montevecchi (M5S). I don't insist. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Therefore, the G11.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. As they have been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G11,300, G11,400 and G11,401 will not be put to the vote. On the agenda, Mr G11.38, the rapporteur gave an opposite opinion which could be exceeded in the event of a more relaxed rewording with regard to the commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u287	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u288	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u289	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the agenda is actually the result of a debate in the Commission with the Government, which has invited us to re-examine this issue when examining future decrees. We are, of course, willing to use the usual formula, which the Government is committed to evaluating. The same applies to the agenda G11.0.1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It therefore makes an invitation rather than a commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u290	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u291	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u292	MILO (PdL). Madam President, before we finish the examination of Rule 11, I would like to subscribe to the agenda for the G11.20, which originates in Amendment 11.20, which was first signed by Senator Petraglia, and which is similar to Amendment 11.21, which I had first signed, which was not possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. I call on the rapporteur to comment on the G11.38 agenda as reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u293	I give a favourable opinion on the agenda on which the commitment is reworded as an assessment of opportunities by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u294	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u295	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u296	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I believe that there is an audio problem, so I cannot hear well what my colleagues have said, I do not know if you are feeling well. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can hear you very well. SANTANGELO (M5S). I have not heard the proposed reformulation, I have not even heard the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u297	Senator Petraglia asked to reformulate the device in the sense of committing the Government to assess the opportunity to de-activate, thus mitigating the binding nature of the commitment. With this wording, the rapporteur gives a favourable opinion. I invite the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u298	With this reformulation, the Government accepts the agenda G11.38 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u299	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G11.38 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u300	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u301	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u302	D'ALI' (PdL). Madam President, I understand that at the moment it is sufficient for a political party to say something to the rapporteur for him to change his mind. SANTANGELO (M5S). You can't hear anything! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator D'Alì, but you should get close to the microphone, because there are colleagues who can't hear. D'ALI' (PdL). I was saying that I understand that a political part asks the rapporteur to change an opinion and he does so immediately, but here in the Senate it has never happened that an agenda was accepted that requires the government to intervene on a specific measure, which in this case is Decree-Law No 101 of 2013. Mr PUGLISI (PD). But he doesn't impose it! D'ALI' (PdL). The Government undertakes to incorporate certain rules into that decree. It is not said: "to evaluate the opportunity of "in addition to the fact that this type of commitment has not been included in any regulatory provision as the practice of this Government. If we want to respect the rules that we have always followed, we do so; otherwise, it seems to me that we go a little to the settlement.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u303	Let us turn to agenda G11.0.1, on which there was a call for reformulation. I would ask the rapporteur to make a proposal for a reformulation to be submitted to the presenter, Senator Petraglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u304	Madam President, the arrangements for this agenda could be reworded as follows: it commits the Government to consider whether it is appropriate to provide for them.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u305	Senator Petraglia, do you accept the call for the rewording of the agenda G11.0.1? PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. With this rewording, having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G11.0.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u306	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u307	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u308	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, excuse me, just to point out to you that Mr Santangelo is absolutely right: when you speak, all the speakers work. So it is not when colleagues speak, so there is absolutely nothing to be understood.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u309	Thank you, Senator Calderoli. It was certainly useful to point out the inconvenience, so that we could remedy it before tomorrow morning's sitting. Amendments to add additional articles to Article 11 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u310	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u311	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u312	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Excuse me, Mr President, just to remind you of the G9.208 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u313	Senator Panizza, we had set aside the agenda G9.208 to allow a rewording of the device. Mr Marcucci, rapporteur. Madam President, tomorrow we will propose a more appropriate reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law. Before we move on to the speeches at the end of the sitting, I would urge those Members who wish to leave the Chamber to flow, so that those who have to intervene can do so in a minimally acceptable way.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u314	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u315	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u316	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, the 5 Star Movement is strongly opposed to the process of privatisation of the single waste manager of ATO (Optimum territorial scope). On Wednesday 25 September the assembly of the authority ATO Tuscany Costa and the mayors of the Municipalities of the provinces of Pisa, Livorno, Lucca and Massa Carrara will have to choose whether to entrust such management to a public-private mixed society or entrust it to a SpA with total public capital. The silence of politics on the matter is unjustifiable and deafening, considering how irrevocably this choice will affect citizens for the next twenty years. Many municipal councils were kept in the dark of this assembly, when instead they should have been the latter to indicate to the mayors how to express themselves. The Tuscan citizens are well aware of the mixed public-private management of water, profit-oriented and unscrupulous in cutting the service to the needy, and would therefore gladly keep away from it. Even the option of focusing on a fully public SpA does not comfort us: just think of the negative experiences of Gaia SpA or AAMPS SpA. We are concerned about the totally ideological exclusion of the third street, that is the special consortium company: we believe that this is the only type that would guarantee citizens, in compliance with what 27 million Italians voted in the 2011 referendum. It is the same proposal supported by movements for public water, the only one that could offer an efficient and supportive service, with an adequate statute that includes tools of participation and control that can be exercised by the citizens, thus overcoming the model of the SpA, carrozzoni of politics. We therefore appeal to the mayors, to those who declared themselves close to the referendum and therefore to democracy, so that on 25 September we do not choose to open up to the private sector and seriously discuss the opportunity to support the only form of management that is truly public other than the SpA, the only one able to support, without conflicts of interest, the widespread collection, reuse and recycling, and the reduction of waste. With current tariff levels we are talking about a turnover of 6.5 billion euros in 20 years, with certain future increases. I spoke on behalf of the 5 Star Movement Group and of the meetingups active in the territories of Pisa, Livorno, Lucca and Massa Carrara. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u317	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u318	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u319	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this speech I would like to point out to the Presidency a serious interference with the administration of justice, punished by the penal code, which a senator in this House has done. On the website www.stefanoesposito.net, in a post of 19 September 2013, the full expertise of the Turin Public Prosecutor on the equipment found in possession of some No TAV was published, and is still visible and consultable. The expert report is part of a judicial procedure for which the investigation has not yet been closed and its dissemination is therefore a clear violation of Article 114 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which states: The publication, even partial, of the acts no longer covered by the secret until the preliminary investigations are completed, or until the end of the preliminary hearing is completed, is prohibited. This constitutes the offence punished by Article 684 of the Code of Criminal Procedure: Any person who publishes, in whole or in part, even for summary or information, acts or documents of criminal proceedings, of which the publication is prohibited by law, shall be punished by arrest of up to thirty days or by fine of fifty-one euros to two hundred and fifty-eight euros. I therefore ask how the Presidency intends to act against those who have committed the crime mentioned above. If climbing to the roof of the House of Deputies involves a five-day suspension sanction, what does the disclosure of secret documents involve for mere propaganda purposes? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I hope it doesn't just mean a shameless silence. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u320	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u321	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u322	CARRARO (PdL). Madam President, when a factory closes or is in crisis and workers do not receive their wages, it is a social tragedy for workers, for the territory and for the national economy. But if it happens that some factories close, even if they have work, because a perverse mechanism has caused a situation such as that which occurred in the various companies of Ilva, you really cannot fail to intervene quickly. Senator Arrigoni and I already said that last week I repeat today. Yesterday it seemed that there was a Council of Ministers on this subject; whatever needs to be done quickly, it is essential. In a situation of general crisis such as ours, allowing us to lose the steel industry in Italy is truly a mortal sin that the Government and Parliament cannot allow. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u323	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u324	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u325	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, my colleague, Mr Carraro, preceded me, and I am also going back to a problem that is taking paradoxical outlines, for which it would be funny if it were not that there are 1,400 people in the middle, and their families, who have not received any salary for two weeks. I'm gonna do a little history. Last Wednesday, at a hearing at the Senate Industry Commission and the Chamber's Production Committee, which was convened in joint session, Minister Zanonato made a first announcement, saying that on the following Friday, September 20, the Government would issue a measure amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. This measure was not so simple and the Council of Ministers avoided tackling the problem. Yesterday the Minister announced a solution for the early afternoon, but the Council of Ministers made itself known as a ghost, so there was still a black smoke like last Friday. There have been two empty announcements from the Minister. The paralysis continues, while the anger of the 1,400 workers now mounts, many of whom have economic difficulties, since they have contracted a mortgage and are without salary. Also the president of the Italian steel companies Federation (Federacciai) said that the economic and social cost is becoming unsustainable. Today, the agencies are talking about another imminent measure. Well, we in the North League hope that we are not considering an extension of the Ilva police station, because that would mean a violation of the freedom of enterprise. With these announcements, including today's announcements, we consider this Executive increasingly inadequate to solve the problems of the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u326	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u327	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u328	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the few remaining Members because I would like to bring to the attention of the House the story of a national hero, because that is the only way we can define who had the courage to rebel against the 'ndrangheta, paying personally with a real exile from his own land: he was picked up at night with his wife and children, he lost his entrepreneurial activity, he risks daily his life and that of his family. I'm talking about Pino Mascari, an honest entrepreneur who is here in the gallery and attended the last hours of the session. Pino Mascari is an honest Calabrian entrepreneur, who rebelled against 'ndrangheta and who with his testimony gave an example of courage; he allowed the arrest of a series of characters related to 'ndrangheta, even politicians, also presidents of courts, magistrates. After years he came out of the witness protection program. Although still under escort, because his life is still in danger, after buying an apartment he now finds a mortgage on the house for the failure of his company. Because of the encircling by the 'ndrangheta, for the fact that he denounced and was taken and therefore placed under protection, obviously the company had to close its doors and today he continues to pay. He is therefore a national hero who continues to be a victim of the state today. It's just one of the many abuses he's suffered over the past ten years in the protection program. We say that this is a shame: we do not leave our heroes alone, we do not abandon them! And we want to say that we want to remember them alive and not as martyrs. I invite you to give a round of applause to Pino. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u329	We associate with the greeting to the entrepreneur Pino Mascari and we will signal the problem to the Government so that we can intervene on the situation that you have denounced.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u330	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u331	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u332	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, this morning there was yet another demonstration in Naples of the workers of Astir, a company of the Campania Region that declared bankruptcy this year. These workers I call seduced and abandoned. They were seduced because, as we read from the papers of the Court of Auditors, this company has created problems both to the previous and to the current administration of the Campania Region, in particular to the Bassolino administration and to the current administration Caldoro. In fact, the Court of Auditors issued 44 invitations to provide deductions for alleged erarial damage precisely in relation to some transfers that the Region has made. This company was put into liquidation last April and the employees, now put into the fund, do not know what will happen. We therefore ask the institutions to ensure that, once and for all, these employees can work. In our areas, in fact, we can work. There are many reclamations to do, since - it is news of the last few days - underground industrial waste continues to come out. Our region needs reclamations, so I appeal to the institutions so that they can settle the situation of Astir and immediately ensure that these workers are occupied precisely to make these reclamations in our territories. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u333	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u334	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u335	CIRINNA' (PD). Madam President, on 23 September 70 years ago in Palidoro, a few kilometers from Rome, Salvo D'Acquisto was killed, a very young Carabinieri brigade who was killed for retaliation by the Nazis, having offered his life in place of 22 raked citizens because accused of having committed an attack. It is regrettable that even these great historical figures are often neglected by memories and commemorations. However, in this city, a gold medal for the Resistance, someone, a few weeks ago, wanted to celebrate the 100 years of Priebke, another of the Nazi executioners who have damaged our history. Always remembering in this House the martyrs of the anti-fascist resistance still helps to keep the memory, because the horror of dictatorships can always come back. All dictatorships are equal and all dictatorships are dangerous. In this regard, since the speeches at the end of the sitting also serve to urge the Government, I ask that this be the subject of culture: the study of freedom and democracy must enter our schools more. I close with a doubt, which I leave to everyone: how many of our students know who Salvo D'Acquisto was? [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u336	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-109.ana.u337	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.09 p.m.
