ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. VALENTINI, f.f. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. The first question will be asked 3-00261 on the death of Mr. Giuseppe Uva. The Minister of Justice may answer that question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u4	Mr President, the story linked to the death of Giuseppe Uva has long been in the attention of the offices of my Ministry. This is a particularly painful affair, still with dark points that need to be clarified and to which a convincing judicial response has not yet been reached. As you know, for this very reason, I recently felt that I personally received Mr. Uva's family members to reaffirm to them my personal closeness and commitment to the search for truth. From the institutional point of view, I would like to inform you that, since the first reports received from the ministerial offices, all the cognitive and inspection initiatives aimed at ascertaining the existence of profiles of disciplinary responsibility for the magistrates who, in different ways, have dealt with the matter. The results were negative, and also the Prosecutor General at the Court of Cassation, who also held the disciplinary action, excluded the existence of disciplinary behavior, thus proceeding to the filing of the acts on 9 May 2011 and 13 December 2012. However, I must immediately add that later, in the context of the criminal proceedings of the Public Prosecutor of Varese following the transmission of the documents to the public Ministry, ordered by the court of Varese with a judgment of 23 April 2012, which indicated the need for investigation into what had happened before the hospitalization of the Uva, the judge for preliminary investigations set the audience in the chamber of council, following the opposition of the offended parties to the request for a formal filing by the public prosecutor with regard to the procedural position of those who were in the barracks of the Carabinieri of Varese, where the aforementioned Grape had been conducted immediately after the arrest warrant of the judicial police. The subject of investigation to be examined (the hearing will be held by the judge on 8 October) is that of ascertaining the facts that occurred before the entry of the Grape into hospital, as well as the origin and causal value of the traumas detected on the body of the foretold that, according to the judge, would have represented a possible cause of death. This is a very important procedural fact - especially for the cases of merit that the judge has resigned in relation to the investigation activity - which requires an in-depth examination by the competent offices because it is potentially suitable to shed light on the actual responsibilities in determining the causes of a death that has remained unexplainable. With regard to possible disciplinary profiles, as I have already had the opportunity to represent on the occasion of other acts of inspection union on the matter, I confirm that I have given the task to the competent ministerial bodies, and in particular to the general inspectorate, in order to acquire all the cognitive elements necessary to shed light on the whole matter. To this I can only add, given the delicacy of the investigations, that the Attorney General at the Court of Appeal of Milan and the President of the Court of Varese have already transmitted to the inspectorate general information and acts that will be useful for the carrying out of the delegated verifications. Other acts will still have to be transmitted by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Varese. In any case, of course, the outcome of the above-mentioned chamber hearing will have to be awaited, also in order to verify the impact on facts and circumstances of possible disciplinary importance. Finally, I would like to assure the interrogators that the investigations and examinations are being carried out with the greatest effort and with the necessary speed, so as to allow me to assume, as soon as possible - in accordance with their complexity - my possible disciplinary determinations.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u7	Mr Manconi (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am partially satisfied and immediately explain the meaning of my statement. I thank you very much and heartily for the speed, punctuality and meticulousness of your response. I still thank you very much and heartfeltly for wanting to receive the family members of Giuseppe Uva, an act of human solidarity and, at the same time, institutional sensitivity, all the more important because at the origin and at the heart of this affair (reliant nothing less than five years ago) there is the very delicate and crucial question of the relationship between the citizen and the State and in the background there is the question of what constitutes the very foundation of the rule of law, that is, its duty to protect the integrity and safety of those entrusted to its custody. This did not happen in the case of Giuseppe Uva. In your reply, you rightly stress the importance of the next hearing on 8 October. We hope that it is so, so that finally we can start an investigation that leads to ascertain what happened at that time and in that space (the almost three hours spent by Giuseppe Uva in the barracks of the carabinieri of Varese), on which it was not investigated for five long years despite three judges had explicitly asked this from the attorney of Varese. We all hope that, with the hearing on 8 October, before the prescription comes to erase this appalling affair, the search for truth and justice can be initiated, remembering that if this path begins only now and with such delay it is due - and this responsibility cannot be ignored and must be fully established - even to the stubborn, pervicacious negligence of a prosecutor who for five years has not done what he could and should have done. We hope that this situation will now change completely and that for Giuseppe Uva and for those who have found themselves in the same condition we will finally arrive at truth and justice. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u8	The following is the question 3-00087 on exodus. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u9	Mr President, with this parliamentary act, Senator Bulgarelli asks to know the exact number of workers considered exodus and to provide the consequent quantification of the economic needs necessary to ensure full coverage for the protection of these workers. As a preliminary point, it is considered appropriate to specify the distinction, already on several occasions made by Minister Giovannini, between so-called exodus workers and so-called blocked workers. The first are those who are expelled from the production system and need safeguard measures in terms of pension requirements and pension support, if the income support instruments do not allow them to be protected even minimally, until the right to pension is reached within a reasonable period (usually 24-48 months). The second are those workers involved in restructuring processes but not yet expelled from the labour market. The so-called exodus, therefore, are already expelled from the labour market before the pension reform of 2011, which, due to the raising of the requirements for retirement (old age or old age), do not reach that right within a reasonable limit. Moreover, these workers belong to rather limited categories, recorded and identified by the INPS (unemployed, insured persons, workers on the move or ceased a few months after retirement age), therefore the estimate of the relative numerical quotas does not pose excessive practical difficulties. In this regard, it should be pointed out that Minister Giovannini, when he spoke in this Chamber on 16 May 2013 on the problem that is now coming to the attention of the Assembly, had already asked and obtained from a few days (on 8 May) that the INPS should provide an exact picture of the state of the art, accompanied by precise numerical data relating to the state of the work relating to each of the audiences of the three safeguard sessions launched until then. This is a confirmation of the attitude of transparency and full cooperation with Parliament, which has characterized the work of the government in office from the outset on this sensitive issue. Different is the case with so-called blocked workers. The problem of these workers, in fact, is more generally a problem of the productive system and its employment prospects, in the sense that the sudden rise in pension requirements, in particular those of seniority, has limited or eliminated the main instrument used so far for restructuring companies, i.e. retirement. These categories of persons, moreover, are made up to all effects of workers still active and therefore difficult if not impossible to estimate, if, as is often the case, corporate restructuring programmes have a multiannual duration (this is the case with mobility agreements which provide for termination of work in the years to come, i.e. still to be put into practice). Therefore, with regard to the identification and quantification of the subjects, reference can only be made to the provisions of the current rules. However, it is important to stress that the difficulty of quantifying the number of so-called blocked workers does not result from an inert or negligent attitude on the part of the Government, but it is a direct consequence of the fact that the phenomenon in question represents a variable dependent on economic and productive factors and on the individual choices of workers still active in continuous becoming, which is not always able to identify precisely lacking the necessary information. I now come to providing some figures on the state of implementation of the three safeguard rounds (I remember that the term'safeguarded' is perhaps the most correct) to date. On the basis of the regulatory forecasts that followed between 2011 and 2012 and within the limits of the resources allocated to them, the audience of the safeguards was initially estimated in 65,000 subjects in possession of the requirements indicated in the interministerial decree on June 1, 2012 for each of the categories identified by the reference rules. As of September 3, 2013, compared to an expected audience of 65,000 workers, they were produced by the INPS certifications for 62,563 positions. With Decree-Law No 95 of 2012, called spending review, the number of safeguards increased by an additional 55,000 (the relevant interministerial decree, signed on 8 October 2012, was published in the Official Journal of 21 January 2013). In addition, under the Stability Act for 2013 a third safeguard has been provided for the protection of a further number of workers on the move: voluntary prosecutors and recipients of exodus agreements, according to an increase in expenditure which provides for resources up to 2020 (all the period that will run until these workers mature their right to pension). The Ministerial Decree of 22 April 2013, published in the Official Journal no. 123 of 28 May 2013, set the maximum numerical limit for beneficiaries of that safeguard, as well as the modalities for its implementation, at 10.130. The total number of safeguards currently stands at 130,000. With the aim of ensuring the financing of further measures in favour of the categories of workers to be safeguarded, a special fund was established in the Stability Act for 2013 at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies, whose methods of use will be established by decree of a non-regulatory nature of the President of the Council of Ministers, in agreement with the Ministers of Labour and Social Policies and Economics and Finance. In this fund - the budget of which for the year 2013 amounts to 36 million euros - will also include any economies proven to be final and of a multiannual nature compared to the burdens programmed under current legislation for the implementation of the interministerial decrees of 1 June 2012, 8 October 2012 and 22 April 2013: in other words, all the decrees that have foreseen the safeguard of the various part-sessions will be able to produce economies, which will merge into the fund. This will ensure a stable re-destination over time of the financial resources earmarked for the resolution of the problem of safeguards, with full re-use of any savings for the same purposes. At the same time, it should be noted that the first safeguard pensions have been wound up, but the Government's commitment to provide a credible and structural response to the problem raised by the senator cannot be said to have been exhausted and, indeed, in these days it has resulted in a further tangible result: the fourth safeguard. In fact, Decree-Law No 102 of 2013, adopted on 31 August 2013 (the so-called IMU-CIG decree by way of derogation), intervenes in support of so-called individual dismissed workers (an additional category added to the previous ones), who interrupted their relationship before the application of the pension reform and who, as a result of it, found themselves at the same time without salary and pension. Exodus expands as a number on the basis of the identification of categories which are granted the right to retire under the previous rules (this is the definition): as the categories are increased, however, they must be recognised by means of a legislative act, the number of exodus increases clearly. The number of workers safeguarded - fourth safeguard - by the application of the 2011 reform is thus further increased by 6,500 units. In conclusion, it is confirmed that the question raised by the honourable Member is absolutely central to the Commission and the Ministry of Labour as it involves interests and values vital to the individual and highlights a situation of great discomfort, which is still present, and of social alarm, as had already been pointed out by the so-called group of wise men appointed by the Head of State and, later, by the President of the Council in his speech on trust in Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u12	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for the fact that, in the end, some numbers have provided it, even though some numbers have actually already been known. We were aware, for example, of the 130,000 safeguarded; we also had a starting number, 390,000 units: this means that 260,000 remain out of it. Now you tell us that 6,500 other workers protected by the new IMU decree will probably be part of a circuit for which they will then be able to receive the pension, so we will reach 136,500: however, many people remain outside, who do not have an answer. I understand that it is difficult, as you said, to classify these people and bring them back to the various categories. But it is also true that it is not just numbers: behind those numbers there are subjects, with a name, a surname and a family and probably great difficulties in facing the situation that they find to live, being thrown out of a work circuit, with a reduced possibility to return, having in many cases finished their work cycle and having remained in standby. Perhaps some of them, waiting for these resolutions, will not even come to see the solution because they may have already completed their life cycle, and that, of course, brings me even more displeasure. So the invitation I make to the Government, as an Italian citizen, first of all - and we are all Italian citizens here - is to commit ourselves to finding a concrete solution and to really giving answers. As I always say, having the money to move forward serves to give hope and create a perspective, to do what you had anticipated; it serves to make peace with yourself, once you close your work cycle, to enjoy your free time, which you obviously do better if that free time you can spend it as you want also thanks to the money you receive to support yourself and make your own choices. So my exhortation is to go ahead and give more and more concrete answers, because this is needed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u13	2 00042, under Article 156- bis of the Regulation, on the illegal disposal of waste in Campania, is abbreviated. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure, the aforementioned questioning can be carried out for no more than ten minutes and that after the Government's statements a reply is allowed for no more than five minutes. I call Senator Nugnes to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u14	Mr President, I would like to address the Secretary-General: you, the Undersecretary, believe that you see only me and Mrs Moronese here in front of you, but there is a whole region, and I want to tell you that it is the strength of all these people, even those who did not vote for us, who pushed us all the way here in front of you. We don't remember another reason right now. So please listen to us very carefully because it is Campania that speaks to you. For over twenty years in our area, between the Domizio-Flegreo coast, the agro aversano-atellano, the agro acerrano-nolano-vesuviano and the city of Naples, a crime has been consumed. But crime is an insufficient word: we should talk about environmental massacres, because the continuous spilling of special and toxic waste, given to flames every day, several times a day, affects people, but affects all an ecosystem, air, earth and water; irremediably compromises an entire territory and its own hope of life; it strikes at the heart its economy condemning it to environmental and social disaster. Too many photos that are broadcast every day by the hundreds of citizens who live in this vast area of the provinces of Naples and Caserta, known as the land of fires, would suffice to have a clear idea of the environmental drama that afflicts this territory. I wish I could show you those photos and show you the videos, let you read the countless unheard complaints, dead letter for decades. I'd like you to hear the records of the police report calls, which decline the call to intervene on grounds such as the lack of staff and means (car and gasoline). The appuntato Giovanni Parascandola, as emerged from the process "Rampiballe" put the gasoline of his own pocket to do the investigations and to move whom of duty. The law enforcement agencies provide other telephone numbers because this is not their responsibility or they attack without answering, because they are indifferent or perhaps unarmed and defeated. Mr Undersecretary, I would like to be able to accompany you to those territories, as we did two months ago with our colleagues from the 5 Star Movement, but I know that you are aware of these facts, as your Ministry is aware and at work. But what we want to highlight here is the majesty of the economic and industrial plant that is at the root of this phenomenon. It is at least insufficient to investigate only in the low local delinquency and in the network of business activities in black that mainly produce bags and shoes, as the commissioner is doing at the toxic fires Cafagna. It's not enough. We must understand that we are faced with the largest industrial and economic organization in this country, with an evil project of colossal size, which has moved billions of euros and interests for over twenty years: Schiavone reminded us of this in these days. The real Italian industrial giant is this, with a much greater turnover than that of drug trafficking: the low-cost disposal of huge quantities of industrial and toxic-nocive waste from all the regions of Italy, and perhaps also from Europe. This phenomenon has been investigated several times by the judiciary in countless trials, such as the "Cassiopea" trial, which was only prescribed two years ago. Yet the mechanism is simple, it is recorded by the cameras and it is evident: a mountain higher than the Gran Sasso that lacks the appeal of industrial waste. Are we willing to face this industrial giant and defeat it? At the acts we read: "They depart from Milan, Vicenza, Padua, Treviso, Verona, Venice, Bergamo and Brescia, with a regularity of about one hundred trips per week, to be spilled into the bell countryside. Trucks carried drums containing residual dust from the removal of fumes from the iron and steel and metallurgical industries, mineral oils, machine lubricants, paint waste, residual combustion ash, solvents, water from chemical and acid industries. As soon as they arrived in Campania they were buried in the cultivated countryside, along the dirt roads, in land bought by indebted peasants or often not bought, they simply paid a bribe that allowed to spill in their own land, crammed in legal landfills where they ended the city waste, in the abusive ones, in the quarries. Perhaps the economic crisis and the spotlight have dampened traffic a little, but this continues. Either you put this in the middle and you solve it or you don't solve anything. Either it is understood that it is not a local, regional problem, but a national problem (instead of subtracting the territories from the SIN) or nothing has been understood. They disconcert Cafagna's statements in the prefecture last spring that in the presence of Minister Orlando, in making his update report, he dwells on the launch of the bag so popular around here, by people who prefer to give themselves to this sport rather than relying on the separate collection service offered by local administrations. In the final report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry of 5 February 2013 - i.e. yesterday - we read: It must be observed that no effective activity has been carried out. It is possible to buffer the individual episodes, but not the phenomenon, which continues to persist. So it seems to us that so far only this has been done with the actions taken with the Commissariat since last November: to buffer individual episodes, but not the phenomenon, which continues to persist. However, we very much appreciate Minister Orlando's concern at this issue and we recognise that he has a different approach, a desire to make action more structural, the very fact that he has intervened on the gaffe of Minister Lorenzin and has corrected his shot. Many operators urge me to ask that the results of the hospital disposal cards (SDOs) be put to the system and made usable and known, in order to get to know for simple interpolation of the health situation of each territory, and instead we continue to talk for decades about the cancer register while the data already we have them. The ARPAC-AMRA 2010 study showed: diffuse pollution of the soil layers investigated; soil contamination, so it is necessary to carry out risk analysis; presence of hot spot overlays of dioxins and furans related to the presence of burnt waste. Studies and analyses of health data related to the percentages of cancer diseases found in the affected territories, conducted by the Higher Institute of Health, the Pascale Foundation, the Federico II University and the same attorney of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, have shown an undisputed increase in cancer diseases. In just ten years, cancer deaths have increased by 47 percent. The data collected by the Pascale Institute in Naples have shown that the rate of female mortality for lung cancer is the highest in Italy, with a 100 percent increase in just twenty years compared to a decrease of about 50 percent in the entire national territory. The Public Prosecutor of Santa Maria Capua Vetere in 2006 found that since 1999 there had been an increase of 400 percent in the incidence of cancers, seen on the basis of the exemptions from the ticket. The document of synthesis of epidemiological research carried out in Campania by the ISS showed that with regard to malignant tumors as a whole, mortality in Campania is higher than the values of the whole of Italy for the contribution of the provinces of Caserta and Naples. We share - as we have said - the will of Minister Orlando to proceed differently, for example to involve the Minister of Agriculture in this matter in order to create a mapping of the territory that is known and certain, with quality certifications for healthy areas that produce a healthy agri-food economy, which must also be safeguarded from the bad reputation of the places, while stopping all cultivation and grazing activities where the state of environmental compromise is established: but when? We still agree with the Minister in his desire to tighten up environmental crimes by overcoming the safe conduct of the prescription and to proceed with the seizure of assets in order to restore and not to compensate for the damage. Our will is well expressed in the bill Micillo presented to the House. We still like the concrete action to close the waste traffic entering Campania, but we wonder what it will do if this is planned for only two years. We are still pleased to learn that the SISTRI, after having depowered the MUD system, created difficulties, voids, uncertainties (the Prestigiacomo) for a long time, (confusion is always functional to evil) will be streamlined and simplified and will finally run in October... No, then it's March. The website "Prometeo", which set itself the goal of reaching the population in a direct, transparent and continuous relationship, tells nothing, is reached only from the site of the prefecture of Caserta, is not an easily usable site (calling the most to tell me if they know it), while everyone knows, alas, the site the "Terra dei Fuochi" (Fire Land) which, unlike "Prometeo" (Prometeo) has cost nothing to the community. On the site we read that the stakes are halved in the semester 2013 compared to the semester 2012, but how and where unfortunately not to the people, the complaints continue and the situation seems absolutely unchanged. If the fires are halved, how many arrests have been made and how many illegal activities have been stopped? We read on the site that a stop was made, an activity was stopped. We ourselves are working on a bill setting up a national body to coordinate investigations into organized crime in the environment, on the model of the National Anti-Mafia Directorate-General (DNA). We therefore agree when we read of the establishment of inter-force coordination, but then from the hearings with the law enforcement agencies operating on the territory we know nothing about this: we are not aware of the directing chamber, we do not know the courses and guidelines. Two months, during the'spazzatour', we telephoned the police to report the presence of one: an abusive dump was answered, as always, to go and make the complaint on the spot, and that they would send a patrol, because they had no means available. No one came and nothing changed. Even the pact for the land of fires, concluded with the various municipalities, seems to us an excellent document, a nice piece of paper, a good plan of territorial reorganization, but where are the adequate funds, the men, the means and the forces? How will all this and, above all, when? That is why, Undersecretary, we ask you the questions of this question, which are known to you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u15	Senator Nugnes, I thank you not only for the contents with which you illustrated the questioning, but also for the passion you put in your speech. With reference to the environmental problems reported by the interrogators with the questioning No. 42, it is useful to point out that the illegal disposal of waste and the ignition of burnings of often toxic material in the territories of the provinces of Naples and Caserta are problematic for some years already to the attention of the Ministry of the environment and the institutionally involved administrations, as the same questioner has emphasized, and under the careful monitoring by the technical bodies specialized in the matter. The so-called land of fires, as confirmed also by the World Health Organization and epidemiological investigations of the Higher Institute of Health, is a serious and dramatic health and environmental problem, due to the continuous exposure of the population to dioxin present in the atmosphere and to the large amount of waste present, a source of contamination of soil and groundwater. The problems created in the management of waste which, in this field and in an exponential manner, has proliferated the infiltration of organised crime are also not to be overlooked. Since 2009, in the framework of the activities of the Regional Permanent Conference, a permanent table has been set up in the Naples Prefecture, at which meetings, which have been held over time, attended representatives of the police forces, local authorities, associations and committees. In this context, there was also the elaboration of strategies of contrast subsequently implemented by staff of State Police, Carabinieri, Finance Guard, State Forestry Corps and provincial and local police. Therefore, the control services of the territory have been intensified through the preparation of specific and targeted activities along the peripheral roads and in the places where the greatest number of spills has been detected. In the province of Caserta alone, 50 fire principles were identified at the moment, 162 people were arrested and 121 were reported for uncontrolled garbage storage. In view of the type and nature of the materials given to the flames with greater frequency (pneumatics, textile and agricultural waste, building materials), it has been done to intensify the checks at tyre sales, in order to verify the compliance with any municipal orders of prohibition of storage outside the exercise of such products and the correct keeping of the loading and unloading registers. Similarly, control activities on textile and agricultural holdings have been stepped up. More information and investigation has also been required in relation to the procedures adopted by companies and businesses compared to waste discharge. In order to intervene significantly, the person responsible for the phenomenon of the burning of waste in Campania, designated by decree of the Ministry of the Interior of 26 November 2012, has established a directing booth for the activation, with the intervention of the Campania Region, the Provinces and prefectures of Naples and Caserta, the ARPA Campania and ASL, the administrative activities of integration as a corollary of the action of contrast put in place by the law enforcement forces and the local police of the provinces of Naples and Caserta. Among the most important initiatives undertaken to combat the phenomenon of toxic fires in Campania, it is worth mentioning the pact for the land of fires, signed in Naples last July 11, with which a series of measures was prepared, which see the involvement of the Region, the prefectures, the provincial administrations of Naples and Caserta, the ANCI Campania, environmental associations and 57 municipalities. This pact, in addition to strengthening the constraints and commitments of its members to address such a sensitive issue, tends to define a unitary system of interventions where structural measures and extraordinary measures are integrated, activities to combat illicit conduct and activities aimed at addressing the administrative nodes of competences, the application of rules, the availability of human and instrumental resources, which often constitute an obstacle to the pursuit of the result. Economically, with the aforementioned pact the Campania Region has committed itself to allocate, for the activities of control and environmental protection, the sum of 5 million euros, destined to finance projects introduced from the signatory agencies for initiatives of video surveillance and remote control of critical areas and for the acquisition of infrastructures and advanced technologies, to assign to the operators engaged in the specific activities of surveillance and fire. The above-mentioned pact also provides for transparency, on the website of the prefecture of Naples, the so-called "Prometeo" portal, constantly updated on all interventions and measures of law enforcement and government adopted by the firefighters and by all police forces against the phenomenon. This instrument therefore ensures the circularity of the information flow and the timely identification of crisis factors and sensitive areas. The data entered so far indicate more than 1,700 patrols carried out, 230 checks on economic activities, of which 102 on tyre dealers and 90 on production activities, 8 arrests (I repeat, 8 arrests), 37 complaints to the judicial authority, 270 violations, 35 illegal disposal areas subject to criminal seizure, 22 seized vehicles used for illicit trafficking of waste. In addition, 22 economic activities carried out in the absence of authorisation have been identified and in 29 cases black and irregular work situations have emerged during the checks. Seven illegal textile companies managed by Chinese economic operators were closed down. Administrative sanctions have been imposed for more than EUR 60,000. The statistics of the fire department for the period January-May recorded, instead, for the province of Naples, a significant decrease of the participations of shutdown, that have been 653, regarding the correspondent periods of 2012 and 2011, when they were 1,248 and 2,754. Even the province of Caserta recorded, in the same period, a contraction, from 472 interventions in 2012 to 212 in 2013. In addition to the transparency of activities, the Pact promotes, in various respects, forms of collaboration and open participation of environmental associations, called to share the programme, without neglecting the citizens, thus enhancing the relationship of trust between the institutions and the population. As evidence of the will of the local authorities, institutions and citizens to engage concretely in the fight against the phenomenon of the fire of waste and the widespread perception of the usefulness and effectiveness of the instruments of prevention and contrast already put in place in these months, numerous municipal administrations of the provinces of Naples and Caserta, not included among those signatories of the pact, in these days they are asking to be able to adhere to it. As a demonstration that the problem is of particular importance and to the attention of the Ministry of the environment, there is the fact that the Minister of the environment - as was also recalled by the interpeellant - a few days from its settlement has immediately visited the so-called land of fires, to make direct contact with the environmental reality of the territory between the province of Naples and Caserta, where continuous fires of waste occur, especially used and abandoned tyres. In particular, the territory of some municipalities in the province of Caserta has been visited, because of the infiltrations of organised crime, where the problem of the illicit management of waste presents specific criticalities. During the meetings with the authorities and the local population was shared the need to promote greater control of the territory (as requested by the interrogators) also with a more intense presence of the NOE and were appreciated the initiatives and activities started and in progress of the prefects of Naples and Caserta and the in charge of the Interior Minister to counter the illegal incineration of abandoned waste. Following this visit, in order to counter the phenomenon of fire, in particular of tyres, the Minister undertook to promote a coordinated intervention between the municipalities of the province of Naples and Caserta and the consortium for recycling used tyres. From here, on 20 June, the Ministry of the Environment, the Campania Region, the Prefecture of Naples and Caserta, the Municipality of Naples and Caserta, the Minister of the Interior responsible for the phenomenon of the arsonous fires of waste in Campania and the consortium for the recycling of used tires have signed a Memorandum of Understanding for the implementation of interventions of withdrawal and management of abandoned tires in the territory of the provinces of Naples and Caserta. With this protocol, the Municipalities of Naples and Caserta, as well as any other interested Municipalities of the provinces of Naples and Caserta, have undertaken, in the context of the realization of the service of collection and management of urban waste, in order to ensure correct management and to prevent the continuous occurrence of burns, to trace and collect the abandoned tyres in their respective territories and to confer them at suitable authorized centers. Since the above protocol provides for the establishment of a supervisory committee, on 12 August the Ministry of the Environment requested the signatories of the agreement to appoint members. At the same time, the decree of the Ministry of the Environment has been perfected with which the criteria and the modalities of allocation and distribution of the funds available for the promotion of the interventions of reduction and prevention of the production of waste and for the development of new recycling technologies, established by Article 2, paragraph 323, of the Law 24 December 2007, n. 244. The fund, intended for the financing of measures to reduce and prevent waste production, separate collection and recycling, is distributed among the municipalities of the regions subject to Community infringement or conviction proceedings by the Court of Justice for infringement or incorrect application of directives on waste management, the municipal councils of which are dissolved by decree of the President of the Republic due to direct or indirect links with organized crime of the mafia or similar type, in accordance with the provisions of Legislative Decree No 267 of 18 August 2000, at the date of expiry of the deadline for the submission of the request set out in the attached notice. Among the municipalities that may be eligible for such funding are also those of the Campania Region. In addition, with Decree-Law No 69 of 21 June 2013, which: " Urgent provisions for the relaunch of the economy" has been introduced, converted with amendments by the law of 9 August 2013, n. 98, the temporary prohibition of imports into the Campania Region of special and municipal hazardous waste, limited to those destined for disposal. The prohibition is motivated by the situation of health and environmental risk - as it has been denounced - connected to the failure to complete the plants of the cycle of the wastes previewed in the regional plan, situation that makes it opportune to prevent that the weight of the special waste and the urban ones dangerous in the Region is aggravated from the cargo of those imported. We cannot fail to highlight the important initiatives and solicitations put in place by the Minister for the Environment, Mr Andrea Orlando, towards the summits of the Neapolitan institutions aimed at completing regional initiatives for the implementation of the integrated waste cycle, as provided for in the Regional Plan, necessary to improve the regional environmental situation and to overcome the disputes put forward by the European Commission in the context of various infringement procedures. Also by the Ministry of the Environment, a project was launched with the Higher Institute of Health and the Campania Region to systematize the health and environmental data of the Campanian territories functional to identify the areas for which further investigation is necessary. The multidisciplinary design path (environmental, epidemiological, toxicological) will tend to check the possible connections between the state of the environment and the health of citizens. With regard to the request for a derogation from the Stability Pact for measures to remove waste, while recognising the value of the proposal, there should be some caution, linked to the finding of adequate financial resources to offset the worsening effects that the proposal may have on public finance balances. Finally, there is to be pointed out that the sites of national interest (SIN), pursuant to article 252, paragraph 1, of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006, are identifiable in relation to the characteristics of the site, the quantity and dangerousness of the pollutants present, the importance of the impact on the surrounding environment in terms of health and ecological risk, as well as of prejudice to cultural and environmental goods. The identification of sites of national interest is carried out by decree of the Minister of the Environment, in agreement with the regions concerned, and lists a series of principles and guiding criteria to be followed. In particular, the reclamation operations must cover areas and territories, including water bodies, of particular environmental value; the reclamation must cover areas and territories protected by Legislative Decree No 42 of 2004; the health and environmental risk resulting from the detected exceedance of the risk threshold concentrations must be particularly high; the socio-economic impact caused by the pollution of the area must be significant; the contamination must constitute a risk for the assets of historical and cultural interest of national importance; the actions to be implemented must concern sites included in the territory of several regions. In the light of the above, the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, on the basis of the discipline reported, has provided for the reconnaissance of the classified sites of national interest, in implementation of the aforementioned provisions, and has ascertained that the SIN coast domizio-flegreo and agro aversano does not present all the requirements referred to in paragraph 2 of article 252 of the legislative decree n. 152 of 2006, as amended by article 36- bis of the law n. 134 of 2012, therefore cannot fall among those novellati as sites of national interest. This aspect does not exclude the attention given to the area in question for the purposes of the necessary environmental protection measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u18	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his long reply, although, among the various points, he has answered me specifically only on sites of national interest. What you said, Mr. Undersecretary, was already known to us, and unfortunately, as you have confirmed, these projects have been in place for a few years. This does not reassure us, since we have not seen any results. As I said in the context of illustration, as institutional representatives, we have spoken with local law enforcement forces who are not aware of this chamber of direction, courses and guidelines: they are people who work every day with their bare hands on the territory, without the necessary means and instruments. If the words you said had been the presentation of a programming to come, I would have applauded you and I would have come home very happy. But since you said that this is a reality in existence, that there is a table that deals with these aspects at least since 2009, I come back even more discontented, worried and distressed. Among other things, I am not the only one who thinks so: as we said, in February 2013 the competent parliamentary committee of inquiry of the previous legislature showed that there were only spot measures, buffer measures, and that nothing has been done. If nothing had been done in February 2013, I tell you that even in June 2013, when we were in the land of fires, nothing had been done: we witnessed the same degradation as always and every day we see published on the Internet the photos and videos of what happens, of the spills and toxic burns. Words aren't enough. Words are beautiful, but many times they are carriers of lies because they have to follow the facts. For me it doesn't mean anything to the website of the prefecture of Naples, which, among other things, doesn't work: yesterday I was given some data (and now you brought others), but today I tried all day to verify that data on the website, which however I couldn't open, despite I was confirmed to have made the request for registration. It's a site that doesn't work. Do you know what a website is? Do you know what it's like to get in touch with citizens? That site isn't there, it's fake and yet I know it cost a lot of money! It is true that tyres are the fuel of those fires, but do you know that the programme agreement provides for that company to be financed for EUR 1.5 million by some partners and that, when the operation is over, everything will be closed? But tires are the second raw material. Therefore, it is true that there is a need for start-up, that is a capital to start, but we must also make a programming for the future, bearing in mind that the tyre is the second raw material: only this will help the company to walk with its own legs, without needing more funding from partner partners. Another fundamental aspect is that we still insist on saying that it is a local problem. So we do not want to take note of the fact that it is a national problem, because we are talking about the biggest Italian industrial giant: are we afraid to face it? I don't know, if I were in his place, if I were in the government, what I could do and what I would do. I know that I cannot do anything in my position, and I think that if I were to be a member of the Commission, perhaps I would have more tools to intervene. Maybe I'd be scared, I'd have some trouble, I'd be pressured. Then let's just say what we're talking about. If we have to think about our future, if this is our industry, they pay us well. What else do we have to do? I don't want to hear any more words! You tell me that this is not a SIN, because the norm has been changed and the usual comma has been put, as has been done with renewable energy sources, when it was added before the words "and assimilated"? In the measure on the SIN has been inserted the usual comma, and therefore the coast is no longer among the sites of national interest. Yet this is a national problem, we must stop masking ourselves behind the words! One cannot take a decree and change it so that a territory such as that of the Mondragon coast ceases to be part of the SIN. It is a beautiful coastline, which - when I was a child - fed an exceptional economy based on seaside tourism. There is a very long beach, a wonderful pine forest; mozzarella were produced there, and you tell me that coast doesn't matter economically? But they're telling lies! I don't want to hear the lies anymore! I believe Minister Orlando, and you know why? Because I have a deep need to believe and Minister Orlando says so many beautiful words. He came to the Commission and read us a wonderful report. I, however, already have the red and blue pencil in my hand, because when the Minister carried out that report had not yet been approved the decree for Taranto and the decree to do. Therefore, all the things said are already marked, because there is contradiction between what has been said and what has been done with the provisions of his ministry. In six months, if this government is still here, I don't want to have to tell the minister he's a liar. I believe the Minister, I read in his mind and I saw that there is a structure in his thinking. Then, either you let him work or I ask him to tell me here, in the face, that this is just a pantomime to keep the committees good. But what committees, the official ones? What are the committees you have heard? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nugnes, I invite you to conclude. NUGNES (M5S). I have concluded, Mr President, and I thank you for your time. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u19	Following is the question 3-00224 on the inclusion of two new anticancer drugs in the pay-as-you-go "C" band. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u20	Mr President, I would like to leave out any reference to the new provisions on authorisation for the marketing of medicinal products introduced by the so-called Balduzzi Decree-Law and to the problems which it has created, leading to a strong and fair reaction of public opinion and political forces, as they are correctly described by the interrogators. I believe, however, in advance, and before answering the questions asked, that these provisions must be recognized, however, the merit of having identified instruments that allowed the marketing of medicines that, before the entry into force of the same rule in Italy, were not available to patients even in the C-belt, i.e. for payment, while - as is known - they could be purchased in other countries of the European Union. The rules have also impacted on medicines which rightly, I repeat, have aroused great interest and expectations, given that it was the authorization to place anticancer medicines on the market. As is clear, since the first phase of implementation difficulties have emerged, mainly linked to the different possibilities of access for citizens, expected the significant costs of the medicines in question and at the Italian times (repeat, Italians) too long compared to other European countries for the authorization procedures for classification for the purposes of the refundability of medicines. The problem has also been the subject, as is well known, of important requests and initiatives from both branches of Parliament, such as the question we are debating today. In order to overcome these problems and to respond positively to the demands of so many citizens, unable for economic reasons to access these medicines, and to meet the strong demands of Parliament, the Government, on a proposal from Minister Lorenzin, has presented a prompt rule to overcome all the difficulties that have emerged. This rule, which was also supplemented by amendments of parliamentary initiative, was approved during the conversion of the so-called decree-law of doing: it prescribed the peremptory period of 100 days for the conclusion of the entire authorization procedure by the AIFA and it also provided for sanctions to ensure that the same deadlines are complied with. I assure you, however, that it is the intention of the Ministry to ensure that the deadlines are respected, given the impact and urgency of the purposes to which the norm is directed. As regards the procedure for the classification of medicinal products, which is the subject of the question, I would like to inform you that, for the first time, the negotiation procedure for the classification of medicinal products in the hospital area has been initiated and that to date the procedure is being evaluated by the Technical and Scientific Committee; for the second, the manufacturer has already requested the classification of medicinal products in the class. H hospital, the request for price negotiation is already being examined by the Scientific Technical Commission since July 2013 and further details are still under way. From the information acquired, and without prejudice to any impediments which I have not yet been given to know, I believe that the time allowed for the placing on the market will be respected. Finally, with regard to the general principle of universal access to care, as the strength of the National Health Service, I can only agree with what the interrogating senators have pointed out. At the same time, however, I must point out that these problems do not only concern the area mentioned, but are unfortunately of a general nature for all health care. It is therefore necessary to develop - and we must do so - a real and great political debate in order to identify the necessary instruments to overcome, or at least limit, the gap between the regions and within them and to try, therefore, to guarantee the universality of access to care, in support of the constitutionally protected right to health.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u23	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I thank the Undersecretary very much for his reply. I appreciate that with the so-called decree of doing has been dealt with the question of the timing of the entire authorization procedure by AIFA and that it has been established in 100 days (which are legitimate and plausible for the necessary verifications), as from the European media, the peremptory term for its conclusion. However, it remains unresolved, and you mentioned this at the end of your presentation, a problem that is far from a minor one, namely that form of federalism, so to speak, health, which certainly does not respond to Article 32 of the Constitution. I remember that in our country the new cancer cases are 364,000 per year and the deaths for the same reason over 174,000, while the innovative drugs that are produced and placed on the market at a certain speed by the pharmaceutical companies have so high costs that in some cases and for some health companies become almost prohibitive. This situation and the consequent lack of uniformity of access to drugs throughout the national territory have prompted, during a conference this summer, the associations of oncologists and radiologists who deal every day with these important diseases, increasingly important numerically, to make some proposals (please, Mr Undersecretary, to inform the Minister), with which we aim to eliminate specific health expenditure without reducing its quality and effectiveness and indeed increasing them. I do not have time to explain them and then I am not a doctor, so I will not be able to go into detail, but it is considered necessary that Italy, like other countries, has regional cancer networks, which therefore reason in qualitative statistical terms, and of uniform diagnostics, in order to have a capacity to respond to the disease and to the patient much more efficient, fast and less expensive.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u24	Following is the question 3-00099 on the provincial command of the fire department of Rome. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u25	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Valentini asks to know the initiatives that the Government intends to take to ensure the efficiency of the fire department of the provincial command of Rome capital. In this regard, I would like to point out that the situation of the means of rescue at the Rome command is in line with that found on the rest of the national territory. Although there are some difficulties in renewing the fleet due to the current economic situation, the command has more than 70 operational means, located at the headquarters and the detachments. In the course of the year, additional means will be acquired for the partial replacement of the older ones. The provincial command consists, in addition to its headquarters, of 32 detachments, as well as of special divers and radio repairers. The organic forecast for permanent operational staff (heads of departments, team leaders and vigilantes) is 1,640 units. The current allocation, of 1,515 units, shows a shortage of around 8%, in line with the national figure. With these operational units, spread over 4 shifts of service, the average participation of about 265 employees per shift is ensured. From the point of view of the equipment, therefore, the Rome command turns out to be equipped with adequate means to carry out daily the services of the institute. Indeed, over the last five years, some 50,000 interventions have been carried out a year. I can therefore assure you that safety and public safety is the main concern of the Government and the Ministry of the Interior and that, despite the constraints of spending, the levels of efficiency of the rescue system that sees strongly engaged the National Corps of Firefighters with an extraordinary operational effort cannot be compromised. Finally, I would like to remind you that the Government has approved two measures, the security decree and the decree known as D'Alia, which basically incorporates very significant requests from the National Firefighters' Corps. Among the most important measures, I would mention the recruitment of 1,000 new firefighters and the establishment of an emergency fund that meets the needs that Senator Valentini herself, with the question that is being discussed today, but also with other acts in this and in the past legislature, has repeatedly recalled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u28	Mr Valentini (PD). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I must say that I have followed very closely the issue of the security sector, particularly that of fire brigades at this time and especially since we settled down. First of all, as a premise, I must appreciate very much what the Government has done, in particular the Undersecretary since he was appointed, working in favour of the fire department, which is a very delicate and particular sector that has a great need for urgent and extraordinary interventions. In fact, especially in recent years, in Italy and abroad, he has been the protagonist of different emerging scenarios and extraordinary complexity in our country. It is a sector, however, which has so many problems. I greatly appreciated the 1,000 recruitments provided for in the previous decree issued by the Government, although they are always too little compared to the 6,000 firefighters serving in Italy, but it is still an important signal that had never been given before. Instead, it seemed to me that I understood - I am very sorry, and I want to say this in this House - that, when it was necessary to seek cover for the last government decree on IMU, the security sector was cut off and EUR 55 million was withdrawn from the funds provided for the release of the turnover. Mr Undersecretary, you understand very well how sensitive this issue is because, if you do not unlock the turnover, even the 1,000 new recruitments become something very small. Finally, with regard to the provincial command of the fire department in Rome, which is the subject of the question I have presented, I honestly do not have the same data as the Undersecretary. I note what I have just been told, although I understand that nothing has changed since last May - the date of the question - to date. According to my own data, out of 58 pumps, there are only 21 available; out of 12 available autoscales, 6 are damaged. In Rome there are tools and equipment that are rather in decline, with a fleet of machines that is not able to support adequate shifts. It turns out to me that 400 units are missing from the staff of the fire department in Rome, with the result that it is not possible to guarantee support to the 32 detached seats. That is what I understand, but I have an institutional duty to take note of what the Undersecretary tells me, which certainly has more accurate information than mine. What is certain is that Rome, the capital of Italy, with more than 3 million residents, and that during the year, between students away from home and tourists, reaches hundreds of thousands more people, cannot risk the collapse as happened this year. There is the law for Rome capital within which (and we ask the Government to make a reasoning about this too) we should proceed to an economic-financial reorganization (also in order to reduce waste, because then, as to say, within a reorganization there is everything) and operational structure: in this way, within Rome capital we can really build a better system and guarantee an efficiency regarding the Firefighters' Corps. Mr Secretary, thank you for your reply, however, and I hope that, with regard to conflicting data, we can better reason and understand the situation, because this is a very important issue. On the other hand, the situation in Rome is not isolated, but there are similar situations in many small, medium and large Italian cities where firefighters suffer, they are understaffed, with difficulty in ensuring the safety of citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u29	Following is the question 3-00145 on the reorganization of the garrisons of the fire department of Parma. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u30	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Pagliari asks the Government for clarification on the fearful closure of the airport detachment of the fire department in Parma, as well as on the possibility of rationalizing the mixed detachments present in the Province, with the establishment of a possible new detachment in Fornovo di Taro. It is also asked to know what initiatives are being taken to allow the full operation of the instrumental equipment available to Parma's command. The command of the fire department of Parma, in addition to the headquarters, currently has two permanent detachments: a voluntary detachment and an airport detachment. The theoretical staff of the relevant permanent operational staff shall be 208. Currently the presences are pairs to 219 units, even if they appear deficiencies in the qualified staff (in particular heads of team and department), that it is thought however to fill with the completion of the competition of the passages of qualification, previewed by the end of this year. At present, no reduction in the number of posts or changes in the places of employment or the cessation of the activities of the said posts are envisaged. In particular, the fearful closure of the airport detachment is currently not conceivable, being the activities of the garrison closely connected to the rescue device of the port of call at the airport of Parma. With regard, however, to the possible opening of a further branch office in Fornovo di Taro, despite the well-known condition of availability of resources, the necessary deepenings have been started, through the territorial offices of the Body and the local authorities, for the identification of an appropriate place of service. Finally, with regard to the equipment of the command of Parma, the vehicles in service are sufficient in relation to the teams present on the territory and, as regards their state of use, slightly higher than the national average. The means of intervention to ensure the absolute safety of the operators and maximum effectiveness in the rescue are subject to planned maintenance, extraordinary and periodic checks, so that, in rotation, a percentage of the means is temporarily put out of service. Only for limited periods three APS pumps were put out of service, out of a total of eleven. With regard to the special means available, a crane and a stairway are currently being maintained. I conclude by reaffirming the constant attention of the Ministry of the Interior so that the regular functioning of the instrumental endowments in use is always guaranteed and also ensured the full operation of the garrisons on the territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u33	Mr Pagliari (PD). Thank you, Mr President. I think I can say that I am satisfied with the response of the Secretary-General, who shows attention to the whole system of firemen in Parma. I would like to remind you not only of the seats which you mentioned, Mr Undersecretary, for the specific problems set out in my question, but also those of Langhirano, Fidenza and Borgo Val di Taro, because it is right, also on this occasion, to bear witness and to express appreciation for these places. It is with particular satisfaction, therefore, that I welcome the appreciation that emerges from your words, Mr Undersecretary, for the efficiency of this system. I am particularly pleased with the answer to the location of the detachment of Parma airport, as well as the attention and study regarding the opening of the headquarters of Fornovo di Taro. I hope that this study will be deepened and that, in this respect, there will be positive answers, because this presence in Parma is strategically important. As far as the maintenance of the instrumentation is concerned, I cannot go down in technical terms: I therefore refer to its assessments, which also show that the level of efficiency is not reduced, but increased. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u34	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-09-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-97.ana.u35	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 10 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.25 p.m.
