ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 22 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00031 (text 3), tabled by Senator Calderoli and other Senators, 1-00044, tabled by Senator Zeller and other Senators, 1-00046, tabled by Senator Crimi and other Senators, 1-00047, presented by Senator Zanda and other Senators, and 1-00048, presented by Senator De Petris and other Senators, on the start of the process of constitutional reforms. I call Senator Calderoli to explain motion No 31 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is before everyone's eyes the fact that the country and those who are on top of it (businesses, families, institutions) are going down, and before that happens it is everyone's duty, majority and opposition, to carry out those reforms that change the architecture of the State and the Republic in the interests of citizens and not of parties or their secretaries or presidents. However, before we talk about merit, or how to carry out those reforms, we need to analyse and identify the means by which to do so in order to be sure that they will be achieved within the 18-month period indicated by the President-in-Office of the Council in his policy statements. We have more than 20 years of discussion behind us on this issue and therefore the limits and failures of the instruments used to date. Let's review them. Bicameral commissions with extraordinary powers: technically and theoretically they would seem the ideal instrument, but unfortunately the malicious experience of several Bicamerals must make us realize that the same are too subjected to political storms or, worse, to party interests in order to achieve something that is not a "reform." Given the failure of the past, I would say that the bicameral committees can be quietly set aside, and I would not want anyone to think of solving the problem by simply changing the name, from the Commission to the Committee. If this were to happen, it would mean a grip on the bottoms, not so much of myself as of the people, pretending to do nothing at all. We then have the ordinary path of Article 138 of the Constitution, namely the use of the two individual parliamentary committees permanent constitutional affairs and the subsequent parliamentary examination, as provided for in the article itself. Personally, I believe that Article 138 was written by the constituent Fathers for changes or parcel updates of the Constitution, and not already for organic reforms. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Calderoli, I would like the House to be more calm and attentive. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). This is demonstrated by the fact that the same article provides for a single referendum and that it does not take place if the law is passed in the second vote of each of the Chambers by a majority of two thirds of its members, which is consistent with partial changes but not organic reforms. Despite all this, the instrument of Article 138 of the Constitution is the only one that has allowed for timely changes and two overall reforms, which have proved to be two great unfinished: the reform of 2001, which did not address the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the form of government, the federal Senate and formulated an article 117 that seems really written by an alcoholic child, forgetting, among other things, to implement the fiscal federalism and the Charter of the self-government, which are present as a mere enunciation; the reform of 2005, approved by Parliament and written by myself, but then rejected by the popular referendum, which, even with so many limitations and gaps, would have already led to the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, the federal Senate, the strengthening of the powers of the Government and those of control of Parliament. What a great opportunity we lost in 2006! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Airola]] It is past, but it is also proof that the procedure laid down in Article 138 of the Constitution, as well as that of the bicameral committees, is too affected by contingent political situations, as happened in 2006, when the popular referendum took place immediately after the general elections. And so I feel that I do not recommend this instrument for such a complex reform. At this point, I would like to re-read a few lines of my speech as Minister in this very branch of Parliament. I was like, What if, for example, we used a constituent convention, or a body made up of deputies and senators, integrated, without the right to vote, by representatives of the territory, since we will also have to write the rules relating to the Federal Senate, the Senate of the Regions? I believe that such an instrument could serve to identify the articles that, in a shared way, we intend to modify and to try to write a text that can then have a parliamentary passage in form perhaps simpler than ordinary examination. It was the year 2009, but I find the same concepts as President Letta's statement on constitutional reforms in his programmatic speech that received the vote of confidence. I quote: In order to remove the debate on the reform of the Charter from the physiological oppositions of the contingent debate, it would be good for Parliament to adopt its decisions on the basis of the proposals made by a Convention, open to the participation of authoritative non-parliamentary experts and starting from the results of the parliamentary activities of the last legislature and the conclusions of the Committee of Wise Men (established by the President of the Republic). The Convention must be able to start its work immediately on the basis of Parliament's acts of direction, pending the completion of the procedures for a constitutional measure. Since this time the only possible outlet on this issue is the success in approving the reforms that the country has been waiting for too long, in 18 months I will verify if the plan will be started towards a safe port. If I have reasonable assurance that the process of revising the Constitution will be successful, then our work can continue. Otherwise, if vetoes and uncertainties were to threaten to bogged down everything for the umpteenth time, I would not hesitate to immediately draw the consequences from it. These are your words, Mr President, which I have absolutely shared. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I have only one concern: that the debate that has taken place in these hours on electoral law is part of those vetoes and uncertainties that could bogged down and threaten everything. I believe, however, that you, Mr Letta, have something more, and I believe that it is an important factor: as those who preceded you as premier of your political side, you - I must say - have the "c factor." And look, never being able to reform, I believe that the "c factor" - we have seen it in the last administrative rounds - is an important factor in making them. We never had it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The purpose of motion No 31 tabled by the North League is to translate into action by Parliament as expressed by President Letta in his programmatic speech, namely to create a special body within the Senate which will, with the homologist subject that the House of Deputies may wish to establish, a Convention, a Commission, a Committee (or whatever the hell you want to call it, as long as it goes, to me), be able to start immediately the path of constitutional reforms and the subsequent electoral law. We must then immediately begin the parliamentary procedure for the adoption, within four months - we can do so - of a constitutional law which confers on the Convention in question the powers necessary for Parliament to be able to approve, within the same time limits as President Letta indicated, the text drawn up by it, providing for the reform to be subject to one or more popular referendums, regardless of the majority with which it was adopted. But President Letta didn't just talk about method: he also spoke about merit. I quote: We need to overcome the bicameralism of equality, to streamline the decision-making process and avoid institutional jams such as we have just experienced, entrusting to a single Chamber the task of conferring or withdrawing trust on the Government. No electoral law can guarantee the formation of an identical majority in two different branches of Parliament. We must therefore establish a second Chamber - the Senate of the Regions and the Autonomous Regions - with differentiated competences and with the objective of fully achieving the integration of the central state with the autonomy, also on the basis of a clearer division of competences between the levels of government with the perfection of the reform of Title V. I think he referred to that very article 17 written by the alcoholic child I mentioned in the premise. And again: It is also necessary to quickly close the game of fiscal federalism, reviewing the fiscal relationship between center and periphery, safeguarding the centrality of the territories and regions. It is also possible to explore the suggestion of the Committee of Wise Men set up by the President of the Republic for the possible reorganization of the Regions and their relations with each other. We agree and agree with what President Letta has said about this, and according to this we have converted our vote against confidence into an abstention vote. We gave him a credit opening. We made an opening of credit to the government, but now the Senate with this motion must commit itself to moving from words to deeds. I'm not asking. The whole country is asking. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u6	I call Senator Laniece to explain motion No 44.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u7	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the reform of the Constitution and the institutions has been mentioned several times over the past thirty years. In these months, first in the election campaign and then in this first phase of the legislature, I believe that all the political forces present in Parliament have brought to the attention of the country and the voters this issue that I would call imposing on political importance. I would therefore like to stress that this Government you have led, urged by the Parliamentary Chambers, is finally starting a path that is now indispensable and indispensable for the modernization of republican institutions; a path that will inevitably lead to change significant parts of our Constitutional Charter, which will change the structure of the State, the form of Government, will lead to the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism and finally to that reduction of the number of parliamentarians and the cost of politics now requested unanimously by the whole country. Finally, I leave the issue of the electoral system, on which it is clear that there is still no convergence. In short, the idea that the XVII legislature is a constituent legislature would be the best and most serious way for our country to reconcile the Italian people with politics, the real one, that of the answers. It is clear that we elected and representatives of particular realities such as the Special Autonomies - and I am speaking on behalf of the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano and the Autonomous Region of Valle d'Aosta - are, on the one hand, anxious and ready to work on a process that will ultimately lead, as far as we are concerned, to a modernization of our Statutes of autonomy through the necessary amendments of the Constitution, on the other hand concerned that, by putting into hand our Constitutional Charter in which our Statutes of autonomy are set, we go to make changes that may have negative repercussions on our systems of the Special Autonomies, although always protected by the Constitution in Articles 5 and 6. I recall, in particular, Article 6, which says: The Republic shall protect linguistic minorities with appropriate rules. So it is for us a moment that I would call historical, where it is clear and strong that confirmation, in this phase of great reform, of the systems of special autonomy is not a way to reaffirm privileges and gifts to administrations that waste public money, but it must be the reaffirmation and protection of institutions and peoples that have developed an Alpine civilization that sinks the root of the centuries and that, thanks to the special autonomy regime, have been able to survive and live the mountain. That, then, is the point of our motion, Madam President. It is clear that we fully endorse the general lines of the majority motion, but our motion is motivated by the fear that we will not be present, as self-employed and convinced federalists, at a very important and solemn historical moment, and therefore the guarantee of representation on the bicameral committee. Therefore, it will be a moment that can lead to a new and modern Italy, but that is not stepmother towards the border territories, that knows how to protect and enhance its culture, traditions and languages, as small pearls of a country unique in the world. Finally, I would like to thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for your attention to our particular mountain realities. Moreover, I congratulate you on how you are leading, at this particular moment, with a clear and concrete path this Government, anomalous perhaps, but - if we want - a historical government that, I am sure, can take our country to the future. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u8	I call Senator Campanella to explain motion No 46.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, technically our Constitution is one of those defined as rigid by scholars, since the procedure for reforming it, laid down in Article 138 of the Constitution, is made more selective by the two passages in each of the two parliamentary chambers, by the qualified majorities required for each vote and by the possibility of holding a confirmation referendum at the end of the process. If our Charter for Doctrine is rigid, recent history has taught us that it is also a robust Constitution. In fact, in recent years, the Constitution of the Italian Republic has not only held rather gloomy criticisms coming from those who, the holder of prominent institutional roles, had rather to adapt to it. It has also supported the virulent attack carried by a political party present in this Parliament on the judiciary, the holder of the judicial power, which is independent for our legal system, as in any liberal system. It is regrettable that these attacks have taken place in the circumspect silence of other nominally opposed political forces and of the bodies responsible for the protection of the Charter and the order that emanates from it. This robustness and the force of assurance that the Constitution has expressed means that in our citizens every attempt to modify it generates a healthy attention, aimed at avoiding that in the course of the maintenance works its claimed refinement and its update do not expire instead in its transformation, in the impairment of its primary function of guaranteeing the citizens. Another aspect of our Constitution that makes it particularly dear to us is its programmaticity, the character for which the Constituents entrusted the Charter with their dream of an Italy to be rebuilt, based on the equality of the right of each one to seek his own personal realization with work, study and participation in social formations "where his personality takes place." Today, the government, in the unusual figure of the Minister for Constitutional Reforms, presents us with programmatic guidelines for the reform of the Constitution in which there are two speculative dangers: modelling and constitutional conservatism. If we agree on the opportunity to escape from the sterile academy on such a vital issue for the country, it leaves us frankly perplexed the very concept of institutional conservatism, the formulation of which seems moved above all to try to delegitimize a salvific instinct of constitutional preservation of which we are consciously imbued and which we believe we must spread and promote in every institutional and political intercourse sensual side. The political motivation that drives the parties of this strange majority towards the modification of the second part of the Charter is clearly the desire to create the conditions for the formation of stable and effective governments. To this instance the Five Star Movement does not escape, indeed analyzes it and invites this Assembly to a reflection. In recent years, we have had examples of governments of excellent duration, whose effectiveness has been deeply limited by the effort of composition of instances, even contradictory, often compressed and subjugated but never won, present in the majorities that those governments supported. Therefore we believe that the inefficiency of the functioning of the institutional machine is not due to defects in the design of the device, but rather to the political will of the actors that that device has managed, that they want to continue to manage and that obviously they want to manage in a more small and less conditioned way to ferry the country towards the desired modernization. This tension to change does not seem to take into account the lack of legitimacy, not formal but of political legitimacy, which derives from the current parliamentary assemblies from their derivation from a poorly founded electoral law and today, finally, under observation for its many times denounced dubious constitutionality. Having said that, we declare that the Five Star Movement also believes that some changes must be made to the Republican Constitution, but we also believe that these must be small and aimed at the greater participation of citizens in the decision-making processes that govern the country and at the lower cost for the definition of such processes. This is the ratio of our proposals. They are, as we have always said since the election campaign that has brought us to Parliament: the reduction in the number of Members and senators; the reduction in the number of regional councillors; the abolition of the Provinces; the introduction of the proposed and consultative referendum without a functional quorum; the elimination of every functional quorum for the repealing referendum; the fixing of the maximum number of two mandates for political representation in the institutions; the prediction of the incandidability of the position of Member and Senator of those who have been sentenced by final judgment and of those who already hold other elective positions of representation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; the increase in the constitutional guarantees in favour of parliamentary oppositions, including the raising of the quorum necessary for the adoption and amendment of parliamentary regulations; the definition, finally, of a time limit within which Parliament should examine the draft laws of popular initiative. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Laniece.]] Will the other political forces present in Parliament want to start working towards these objectives? The 5 Star Movement is ready. But one thing we believe is important to give the review process the political investiture that we believe is necessary: the full involvement of our fellow citizens in the process, which sees in its initial steps the spread of the constitutional debate in the country with the use not only of the mass media but also, and in a prominent position, the involvement of the public school, aware how we are that every correction of the Constitution will have an effect on us, but also and especially on our children. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u10	I note that the presenters of motion No 47 have referred to the illustration and that they reserve the right to speak in the course of the debate. I call Senator De Cristofaro to explain motion 48.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u11	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Senators, there is no doubt - as other Members have also mentioned - that the issue of constitutional reforms by more legislative means has become the subject of recurring debate, but also that over time it has become the expression of a need felt with increasing intensity by the common feeling of the country. It is no coincidence that in the last 30 years there have been three reform committees. We remind you: the Bozzi Commission in 1983, the Iotti Commission in 1993 and the D'Alema Commission in 1997. We all remember, however, that those attempts were unsuccessful. We therefore consider it right that the 17th legislative term should also be inaugurated by putting the issue of constitutional reforms in the first place on the agenda, which we, too, of the Group of the Mixed Left, Ecology and Freedom, believe, without prejudice to the indissoluble core of the Charter of the 48th Unchangeable Presidium of Republican Freedoms, that it is necessary to revise and update the second part of the Charter in order to adapt it first and foremost to the pressing questions which, on a large part of public opinion, raise themselves to ask for the possibility of a wider and direct participation of citizens in political and institutional life. It is above all to answer this question that a reform of democratic institutions is no longer postponed. Moreover, that this pressing and just demand has been the basis of the latest electoral events that have rewarded, perhaps more, the interpreters of change, but also provoked a rejection and disaffection of citizens towards organized politics, as clearly highlighted by the last electoral round of the administrative vote (characterized, if I may say so, by apolitical rather than anti-political drives), is certainly a consideration shared by many of us. It seems to us that the issues that call for strong intervention and urgent updating are undoubtedly linked to the need to make institutions more transparent, closer to citizens and, at the same time, in line with a more sobriety style, that is, farther away from the risk of becoming, or even just appearing, a world separated and marked by privilege. Even the state of the country, the state of suffering in which a large part of society is now present as a result of the serious crisis in progress, require a signal in the sense of a rapprochement and modernization of republican institutions. However, we believe that such a path cannot take us away from the form of parliamentary government that the constituent Fathers wanted to adopt. It is to this form of government that the democratic government of the Republic has been handed over and it is to it that the delicate balance of the institutions and organs endowed with constitutional sovereignty is restored, without making sure that the escapes of individual forces bend to a partisan interest the institutions that are, vice versa, to guarantee everyone. Precisely for this reason we believe that it is not useful to retain as it is in Part II of the Constitution, but rather that the fundamental principles of the Charter are better defended with its flexible adaptation, so that first of all it revises the form of the perfect bicameralism and together the total number of MPs and senators, which seems necessary to reduce, as well as the urgent disciplinary decree of urgency and the modification of the regulations of the Senate and Chamber, until the revision of Article 49 of the Constitution, which, overcoming remorse that they were well understandable for a country just out of a totalitarian regime, allows the introduction of principles of internal democracy and transparency in the life of political parties. We also believe that the question of mechanisms for direct participation by citizens in institutional life, which, even in a system of representative democracy, calls for the overcoming of established mistrust and the opening up of innovative solutions which find the comfort of authoritative legal doctrine, within the framework of a participatory democracy which is intended as complementary but not a substitute for the representative system, i.e. by incorporating it within the framework of constitutional democracy and not of plebiscitism. In particular, in view of the limited impact of the institutions of participatory democracy provided for in the Charter, a strengthening could relate to the greater effectiveness of the draft laws of popular initiative, requiring, for example, a maximum deadline in the Regulations within which the bill should be the subject of vote by the Assembly. In this way, we think, we would favour the conditions for that full exercise of citizenship which would not replace political representation at all but, on the contrary, it would result in powers of control and of stimulus to representation, with the aim - as has been authoritatively supported recently - of saving democracy through the participation of citizens according to the draft Constitution. It is precisely because of the indispensability of these reforms that we would consider a mistake any form of tacit exchange between the reforming process and the events that concern the electoral law (a very serious mistake, not simply a mistake), in respect of which the "Porcellum" should be deleted immediately and in advance and the "Mattarellum" restored. Precisely because of these needs, which require a clear and respectful path to the constitutional call, we have never been convinced of the call for a Convention and not least the reference to the experience of some European countries. In fact, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we would very much like to point out that the Balladur Commission, which in France has been carrying out constitutional reform since 2007, aimed at strengthening Parliament's power before the Commission and introducing direct action by citizens to protect the rights enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of that country. More: not so much constitutional reforms were implemented as a result of the work of the Convention, but mainly amendments to the parliamentary regulations. In other words, we are not convinced that there are ways of revising bodies outside Parliament which should draw up a unitary text covering several subjects, in our opinion, which differ from the constitutional dictation, where Article 138 prescribes, by shared doctrine, that constitutional laws must have uniform and specific content. If this text were also done precisely by means of a draft law by the Government and not by Parliament, which is also possible, we would, however, be faced with an at least abnormal fact, also because this would not already be submitted to the discussion and approval of the two Chambers, according to Article 72, fourth paragraph, of the Constitution, but to the examination of a Convention composed for the occasion by the members of the Constitutional Affairs Committees of the House and Senate, which should never - in our opinion - have those drafting powers capable of deceiving the role of the Chambers with respect to the whole of the reforms, in particular the power to modify and amend the project, which must be safeguarded for every Member of Parliament. On the contrary, there is a safe and orderly revision procedure, which is ensured by Article 138 of the Constitution, in conjunction with Article 72 of the Constitution. This procedure must, in our view, be used to carry out the necessary reforms. Reforms that must be approved by separate constitutional laws for each of the topics addressed and, as such, submitted to a confirmation referendum, even if approved with two thirds of each House. No far-reaching procedure, in short, that introduces a permanent derogation from Article 138 and therefore aims to alter this same self-form mechanism wisely introduced in the Charter, but a procedure that protects from risks of alteration of delicate constitutional balances fundamental to democratic life. In fact, the link between the path thus envisaged and the duration and life of the Government seems all too well founded. It is clear that if this were the case, Madam President, there would not be a guarantee path, but a dangerous link that would throw the contradictions and delays of politics on the Constitution. As is clear, the cost that we would be called upon to pay would be too high and would expose the Republican institutions to risks that would be, by force, rejected. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u12	I note that the G1 agenda has been presented, which has already been printed and forwarded to the Groups, which Senator Nencini has asked to be able to explain. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u13	Madam President, Mr Letta, ladies and gentlemen, it was written many years ago that it is in difficult times that the greatest legitimacy is obtained. It is a road, President Letta, that you have traveled with conviction, and I am at your side on this complicated and difficult path. I have always thought, especially in recent years, that in Italy the aim to be pursued was to achieve a ruling democracy based on the principle of mutual recognition of actors, which we still do not have. The first objective was set at the beginning of the eighties, but then conservative positions prevailed, largely the daughters of a complex that at that time still resisted, what the lawyers called "the tyrant," and that had, correctly, also our constituent Fathers. To this problem, an extraordinary vulnus, another has been added over time, which I consider to be at least of equal dignity. The recognition of actors in the field is indispensable to strengthen the idea of Nation and necessary to overcome the feudal logic of the political opponent as an enemy to be overthrown. The last part of the Republic in which we live has worked essentially on this dichotomy: not recognition of the opponent as such, identification in the opponent of an enemy for which there is full defeat or, alternatively, political exile. We have experienced this growing history of the crisis of Italian democracy, which is worsening, because the breakup of the material Constitution, which occurred in the early 1990s, does not correspond to the updating of the formal Constitution. Hence the birth and growth of a political struggle that is a permanent conflict. In fact, the simple amendment of electoral laws, with the consequences we know, was preferred to the resolution of problems on the main road. Moreover, the economic scenario and the relationship between States have changed over the years. The notion of sovereignty has been put to the test, both for the delegation that has been conferred on the European Union in significant matters and for an overwhelming globalization that supranational institutions have not known and still fail to govern, in the lead of the WTO. It is necessary to restore in the starting point the balance both at the top of the institutions, and in particular between the judicial power and legislative power, and in the government of the territory, especially between the State and the Regions and between the State and the bodies that govern, under the Regions, the territory. The Economic Constitution must also be updated in relation to the risks posed by the lasting financialisation, the consequences of Italy's accession to monetary union and a more frank decline in the principle of subsidiarity. The objectives that I have indicated largely transcend the logic of reformism to pieces and mouthpieces to which the application of Article 138 of the Charter has so far been inspired. Several indicators prove this: the failure of the reform of Title V, which sought to redesign the overall balance of powers within the Republic, is proof of the failure of the bicameral Commissions that have followed since 1984. Moreover, and I remind the House, as early as 1991 in its message to the Chambers, the then President of the Cossiga Republic questioned the capacity of the constituted power to become constituent power as well. (at 10.16 a.m.) (NENCINI followed). And on the other hand, just the happy gestation of the Charter in 1948, however conditioned by what you, Minister Quagliariello, correctly defined the necessary party-cratization, was not disturbed by the changing events of the time. All this shows that separating constituent power from legislative power and the constituent majorities from those of government has always been, in contemporary democracies, the main road. Finally, I would like to point out that Parliament has been elected on a majority basis for twenty years, and that is also why one of the first items of review should be the quorum provided for the election of the guarantee bodies and the quorum provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution. I understand (and it is the nature of the agenda that I have presented) that this position - that of indicating as the main road to a constitutional revision the election by universal suffrage and by proportional ballot of a constituent Assembly - is, in this Parliament, a decidedly minority position, but it was right to present it to the Assembly, to indicate it as a possibility, as an opportunity, defining its costs as zero, because they would fall, on an unchanged budget, on the weight of the House and the Senate. Every other road is a narrower path, it is, the poet would have said, "natural burella" that would put Parliament to the test, and also for this reason its ability, which I know, to bring to balance the forces that will work there will be measured there. A path that, given the majority motion, will be walked and that we will still look carefully, aware how we are that Italy can no longer live with the bombed institutions of the very first Republic. On the other hand, Mr Letta, I agree with what the Minister and yourself have said when you said that the constitutional law that will be assumed will be subject to a popular referendum whatever the quorum with which Parliament will decide to approve it: this is another main road to be fixed. I am not going to talk, alongside the method, about a series of content which we absolutely agree with and which I entrust to the written part of the agenda. My three concluding minutes I want to dedicate them instead to two parts for which it has extraordinarily won, for months now, in this very fragile Italy, the rhetoric that has identified in the costs of politics the greatest of absolute evils. In the name of that rhetoric we risked, two years ago, to abolish with a single decree of the Government of that time two revolutions that marked the contemporary age, the American one and the French one, when it was proposed to Parliament, in order to save the costs in the Municipal Councils (it seems to me that a city councilor of a Municipality under the 1.000 inhabitants costs 17-18 euro gross), to elect the mayor by not naming any figure in the City Council that carried out a function I do not say of opposition, but at least of control. In a bang we would have repealed two revolutions [[Applause from Senator Puppato]] : an extraordinary success that the government then anticipated and then fortunately canceled. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] ). It was a rule of a decree-law of August 2011, Minister; I remember it perfectly, for the garment I had then. The other point of crisis is given by the fact that the engraving on the Provinces and having identified in the Provinces themselves the evil to be cut, without having foreseen an organic reform of the bodies that work on the territory (I have contact 15, twice the capital vices) leaves open the question, the vulnus of how to govern our Italy. I shall conclude with one last question, which concerns the lives of the parties. I think it is necessary to return to the proposals he made in the time of the Constituent such Calamandrei, urgently rejecting Article 49 of the Charter, so that in no way should the democracy of the public be encouraged, substitute - as Manin wrote - of the democracy of the parties: also because soon in the place of the public we will have only a very questionable democracy of the polls. State support is only support for political forces with certified budgets and in accordance with constitutional dictates. None of us made any mistakes, but I remember that we have attended, in the last twenty-four months, also a political party that held a congress, elected its organs in Milan and, in the airspace between Milan and Rome, those two summit bodies (I think they were a president and a spokesman or a secretary and a spokesman) were deleted and replaced by two others, of which the congress had not spoken. In such cases, direct or indirect financing would seem to me to be an unbearable injury. But the help and support of parties must be there and must be considered above all in the provision of services, in the incentive, also fiscal, to the contribution of citizens and in the help - I am not ashamed to say it - to foundations and study centres, as is done in advanced democracies. We need certain controls, sparingly and rigorously, not the decalogue of the weeping to follow the Savonarola, also because the Medici always arrive. Out of rhetoric, Mr President, and from personal parties, away from financing the serviceable sheets of Lavitola Valter, born in Salerno on 16 June 1966 [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , and at least doubting in the face of the denial of the financing at "L'Avanti" of this Bissolati Leonida, born in Cremona on February 20, 1857, we always know that democracy costs more than dictatorships, while good politics costs less than all surrogates than in the history of humanity man has invented. Good job. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI), PD, M5S and ScpI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u14	This concludes the presentation of the address instruments on the agenda. As announced at the Conference of Leaders, the President of the Council of Ministers, present at this first stage of the Senate session, will now go to the Chamber of Deputies to listen to the illustration of the motions presented in the other branch of Parliament. We therefore thank the speakers and the President-in-Office of the Council, whom we will see later. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Quagliariello, today, therefore, is a new beginning. Once again, as others have mentioned earlier in this House, Parliament is about to start a process of constitutional reform. I think Mr Quagliariello did well yesterday, in his reply to the Joint Committees of the House and Senate, to point out that it is not a constituent process but a process of constitutional reform. I say this because I think there should be a figure in the way the House and the Senate will deal with this issue. And the figure is that of the determination, of the balance, of the measure, but also, of course, of the vision - since no one, of course, can think that the reform of a part of the Constitution does not allude to you - of a way of understanding the country, the relationship between the institutions and its citizens, the liveliness of its political debate, of the public debate (and not only forced in the parliamentary classrooms), of the ability of the institutions to comply with the need for decisions that, especially at such a difficult time for the history of the country, need to be effective, timely and - let me also say - if possible, with regard to the great strategic choices for the country, destined to last over time, despite the succession of the Governments and the fragility of the same. I believe that our debate, the one that begins today - it is really only a start - also has a public duty, that of clarity, I would say, captioning, because it is a debate that is certainly of interest to the members of this House, but it is much more important - I think - to the 60 million Italians who are out of here and who must therefore have the full right to read our debate with the clarity that such a path deserves. My colleagues will therefore apologise if I try, of course still very roughly - then it will be up to each of us, in the speeches that will be made in the Commission and in this House, to contribute to this effort - to reduce a little the mists that are growing on this debate, which obviously has in itself the germ and the potential to be a moment of opposition, sometimes even of misunderstanding and even, sometimes, of mystification of the subject, of choices, of paths, of the end. The first question that arises - as Mr Campanella mentioned earlier - is this sort of division that tries to root in public opinion between those who are attached to the Constitution and those who are so unloved to it that they think of changing it lightly, superficially. I would just like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to a public debate which has been going on in the country for many years and which has also, as it were, been the father and mother of the aborted attempts at constitutional reform. I believe that it is in everyone's eyes that the political decision is no longer able to respond to the needs of the country with the effectiveness and timeliness they deserve. I am referring, first of all, to the parliamentary political decision, otherwise we would not understand why in recent years so lively and justified has been the criticism of the abuse of the decree of urgency and so vivid the difficulty shown against the decadence of a role of Parliament, and in particular of the parliamentary legislative initiative. So dismaying for many citizens it was to realize that these places were too often the places of the delayed decision, in many cases intervening in a changed situation compared to the main need that had moved it, and in any case almost never accomplished, definitive, useful to the end. This feeling, which is awkward for the growth of the country, which is awkward for the affirmation of rights and interests, is a feeling that we must have so much at heart that we also use it as a tool to unravel, precisely, some fogs that thicken over our last - I say really last - useful attempt to adapt the forms of the institutions to the best satisfaction of the public end. This is a matter, even if it is brought back to its absolute essence. In this game, however, we play an extraordinary game, that of the recognition and reliability of institutions in the perception of citizens, which is an essential piece, indeed probably "the" essential part of recognizing oneself as a community, as a community and as a nation, as Senator Nencini just said. It is therefore necessary to avoid the risk of such opposition, which weighs on the debate and clouds its contours, without being able to be useful for understanding what is happening, between conservation and innovation. But of course we also have an opposite risk: that of the iconoclastic fury, the daughter of the disaffection towards the institutions and a judgment on politics that cannot and must not involve the republican institutions. It is an iconoclastic fury sometimes broken down, where the Constitution is measure, balance and complex balancing system, delicate, precious. The effort to which we are beginning today is also determined and induced by a change in the landscape, even institutional, in which we are now moving, many years after the writing of Part II of the Constitution. At this moment we are faced with the need to regain the role and authority of Parliament, which is also strongly affected by an electoral law such as that which has so far, even in the last elections, assisted the formation of the Chambers. We therefore need to re-launch the issue of Parliament's role, authority and autonomy in relation to the Commission: we must act for the effectiveness and timeliness of the public decision, but we also know that we have a duty to adapt our parliamentary system to a reality that we have wanted, supported and built patiently, even in a meeting of will which is totally unrelated to the parliamentary majorities. I am referring to the system of autonomy, new powers, new competences and a new public feeling, with respect to which the representation of today's Chambers is distonic. It is a public power that lives, determines and governs, but does not have in the parliamentary classrooms its own reflection and its own standing as "co-acting" and "co-participant" in the political decision. Then there is a huge but largely intact theme, which was also evoked here by Senator Campanella: what other, new forms of democratic participation exist? The reference made by Senator Campanella to the laws of popular initiative gives us a sense of the vastness of this task. I certainly agree with those who said that the reform of the institutions cannot even be reduced to the chapter of saving public expenditure: I do not spend a single word on it, because it is an essential point, but not the only, single and prevailing reason for which we must operate. I have heard many objections - and they will probably appear in the next few days - about the path we describe with the motion shared by the majority groups. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Quagliariello, because he was able to listen to Parliament's reasons: we started from a hypothesis in which the Convention existed, that is, a place composed of parliamentarians and lay people, that no longer exists, and where the Commissions and the two Chamber and Senate Chambers decided together, with an alteration of proportionality in the representation of the Groups and in the consistency of the two branches of Parliament, but that is no longer the case. We had started from a hypothesis of drafting powers attributed to the Commissions; also this, which was in violation of Article 72 of the Constitution, no longer exists, and I find the verse intact, the spirit of Article 138, aggravated (I say strengthened) by the possibility of referendum even if it is free with the majority provided for by it; I see the vivid breath, even if it is still only a principle, of a democratic consultation in the drafting of the reform texts, therefore of participation. I see the establishment of the Joint Committee (the only exception to the path indicated in Article 138 of the Constitution) in that it disturbs those who fear that those forms of guarantee will be overwhelmed. It is an equal committee that has a great value in itself, that of being able to draw up texts with that attention to the organic nature of its work, to the systemic quality of its work, which must always be the first attention of those who legislate, especially in constitutional matters. I therefore believe that even for this reason the fogs, the fumes, the criticisms that sometimes arise from unclear information (but it is our responsibility to make it clear) can also be dissipated from this point of view. Of course, we're only discussing the route today. I am not hiding, but rather I believe that we must not exorcise him, that we will meet the political problems and this issue will take our debate, will occupy these classrooms and I hope many assemblies of the country: that is, I hope the greatest possible participation from the citizens. We must have the determination not to hide any of these nodes, to be able to go to the bottom with secularity at the heart of the issues, to choose the best for the Republic - I would say - and to do so without this condition in which we sometimes find ourselves, which is a bit tight between fear and defense. We only have to defend the Republic, its institutions and their functioning for the best, most guaranteed, most effective and democratic service for the country, and if there is one thing that this Parliament, because of the contingency that has been illustrated, cannot afford, like none of us, is essentially to be afraid. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, SCpI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT,UDT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Quagliariello, as the Head of State warned us, we can no longer escape from the lack of reforms in the search for a viable solution, the clear and timely decision for the reforms that need to be continued in order to survive and progress democracy and Italian society. If the conservative tendencies that have so far blocked the revision of the second part of the Constitution were to prevail, we would condemn the country to paralysis and political and economic decline, as Angelo Panebianco has rightly observed on the "Corriere della Sera" of a few days ago, with reference to the singular thesis supported by Gustavo Zagrebelsky in an interview with "la Repubblica" of the day before. "There is in this country" - said Panebianco - "a deep-rooted and widespread political culture for which changing the Constitution is synonymous with "golpe," an authoritarian and reactionary turning point. That jurist end that is Gustavo Zagrebelsky (...) is perhaps the most authoritative spokesman of this trend. To think, as he thinks, that seriously reforming the Constitution (for example, in the presidential sense) means "normalizing" Italy at the service of not better specified oligarchies, involves the demand that nothing serious is done to save Italian democracy. Here, we are at the antipodes of these conservative thesis and we believe that the reforms are absolutely to be done, because we do not want to condemn the country to paralysis and to political and economic decline. As far as we're concerned, we're very determined. The changes must concern and foresee a new form of state, a new form of government, the overcoming of bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the reform of the electoral system, the expenditure of politics and the strengthening of Article 138 of the Constitution. The work should then be supplemented by the amendment of the parliamentary regulations. Since its inception, the centre-right has always had a very clear need to reform the organizational part of the Constitution. I remember how already in 1994 Forza Italia had in its program the direct election of the President of the Republic combined with the double-round electoral system and the overcoming of the absurd bicameralism paritarian. After the attempts to reform failed in the 1990s, it should be remembered that in 2005, when the spontaneous tendency of the political system seemed to go in the direction of the Premier's form of government, the center-right managed to approve a reform that strengthened the powers of the Premier, eliminated the obligation of initial trust to the Government, exceeded the bicameralism paritarian leaving the confidence to the Chamber of Deputies alone, reduced the number of parliamentarians, reformed Title V of Part II of the Constitution, restoring the national interest and reviewing the list of competing subjects. But - as is well known - the center-left promoted the referendum to say no to that reform. Just as the opportunity that had been created last year, when it was the center-left, was thrown into the wind, in the light of the outcome of the elections that had taken place simultaneously in France and Greece (two real cases of school) to first open a reflection proposing the double turn, except then refuse to write together with the center-right the necessary constitutional reform linked to that electoral system. It's a reform that could have taken us to Paris. In this way we would have erected the dam represented precisely by the direct election of the President of the Republic and by the double turn, capable of preventing the crises of the political system from dumping on the institutions, affecting their governance, as unfortunately happened punctually in Italy. In France, governance has been assured - it must be stressed - despite the fact that in the first round President Hollande had obtained only 28.6 percent of the votes and the anti-system forces had almost 40%, because with the French semi-presidency system Hollande, in the second round, was legitimized and won thanks to the vote of the absolute majority of citizens, not thanks to an abnormal majority prize, and then, thanks to the pulling of the direct election, his party obtained the absolute majority of the seats at the National Assembly. Even in Italy it could have been so: instead we are all where we know, with a tripolar political system, no winner and the Democratic Party that took even two months to deal with the principle of reality. But the memory of the missed opportunities does not want to be an exercise of political controversy, which would be completely useless and counterproductive. It wants, however, above all with reference to last year, to be a serious element of reflection and encouragement in order to take on together a binding commitment in this parliamentary term. For several decades the parties have been able to make up for the weakness of the institutions: now it is time to create robust institutional structures that are able to give themselves strength to the parties and other channels of participation. Policy reform is first and foremost based on timely reforms of the political institutions. Moreover, awareness of the articulation of reforms is one of the main reasons for this government. The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Letta, made it very clear that this time the only possible outcome for this issue is success in approving the reforms, because if it were not the case, if vetoes and uncertainties were to threaten to bogged down everything for the umpteenth time, I would not hesitate to draw the consequences immediately. Before we move on to the question of the reform method contained in the motion that we have tabled, we must deal specifically with a matter of substance which is more urgent than other substantive issues. I do not think it is necessary to add further considerations here than those already expressed by the Minister for institutional reform, whom I thank for the work he is doing. I am referring to electoral reform: we believe that it is closely linked and consequent to the form of government and cannot therefore be achieved before and regardless of constitutional reform; also because we all know that without constitutional reform there is no electoral law that can ensure governance, in the face of a tripolar political system and an equal bicameral system, even with the different passive electorate for the election of the two Chambers. On the other hand, as regards the problems of constitutionality on certain aspects of the current law that have been placed by the Constitutional Court and the President of the Republic, and, on 17 May 2013, by an order of the Court of Cassation, beyond their eligibility, which will be assessed by the Council, we believe that a safeguard intervention is necessary to make the current electoral law constitutional. Its most obvious shortcomings must be eliminated, namely the lack of a minimum threshold for the majority prize and the system of regional majority prizes for the Senate elections. A return to the "Mattarellum" would mean, instead, making a choice already, putting the electoral law before constitutional reform, and we do not share this path and we do not accept it in the most absolute way. By tapping into the merits of the motion, we believe that the Government can involve constitutionalists experts in a first phase with a Commission or Committee of its own appointment to support the investigation and definition of the reformer design. For the rest, the reform path must be fully parliamentary and one must first pass through the two Constitutional Affairs Commissions of the Senate and the House, so that the joint work of senators and parliamentarians facilitates the identification of shared solutions and avoids the risk of endless shuttles between the two branches of Parliament. We fully share the idea of significantly enhancing democratic participation, involving the best political, institutional, social and cultural energies and resources of the country and the entire public opinion, including through a public consultation procedure. That is why we strongly say that the subject of institutional change is inescapable: together with that of the economy it is an absolute priority for the majority of the government and for the whole of Parliament. Not reforming our institutional architecture is a luxury that we can no longer afford. In the last thirty years we have already paid a very high cost for this, but in recent months we have even reached a situation of stalemate and very serious institutional paralysis. The results of the elections and the serious difficulties of the start of the XVII legislature have shown that we are not facing a normal political crisis, but a deeper system crisis, of the political-institutional system alongside the economic-financial one. The deepest meaning of the same criticism of the costs of politics is to refer to the inconclusion of politics, to the inability to make decisions even more than to the costs, certainly not slight, of the political apparatuses. In conclusion, I insist that reforms should be made, of course, provided that the time is reasonably limited. If, in fact, the constituent Fathers took 18 months to launch the entire Constitution, it is not possible to think of longer times to reform only some aspects, just those pages that in 1948, in the climate of the Cold War, remained unfinished, on the form of State, on the form of government and on bicameralism, which the Constituents themselves were well aware of. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u18	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u19	Mr President, Minister, the current Government - which, I recall, is a Government of Service and Emergency - has done well to bind its duration to an effective and timely process of institutional reorganization. It is important that, after this phase, a new path begins with truly decisive elections to decide who governs, able to implement the legislative programme submitted to the voters in an updated and balanced framework that includes new guarantees and counter-powers. And this could not only happen with an electoral reform. Twenty years after Tangentopoli, our country needs something that only the two major parties - duelists of these twenty years - can do: the reform of the institutional structure, that is, the reform of a parliamentary democracy that no longer works. This is the program of moralization of public life that is most needed: from overcoming the perfect bicameralism to abolishing the Provinces. The institutional crisis - with the fiscal crisis and the moral crisis - constitutes the third piece that is going to enlarge the Slavic Great Slavonic described by Luciano Cafagna in the famous essay reprinted in the twentieth anniversary of Tangentopoli. The institutional crisis - I use the words of Cafagna - is the inability of the parties to remedy the original sin of the constituent Fathers, the unsatisfactory constitutional structure of the form of government, that assembly partycracy that is at the origin of the general cohabitation and the dismemberment of sovereignty, and therefore of the yieldability of governments in the face of social questions that were controlled and addressed more effectively in other countries. We are still there, and without a solid reform of the rules of the game the system will continue to float in an endless and painful transition that with the passage of time gets enchanted. Of course, growth is the priority! Of course, a positive economic and social dynamic must be brought back to Italy! And there is no doubt that labour and development policies are needed and that justice, education and liberalisation must be taken care of. But these fundamental policies will have difficulty in being approved and implemented, even discussed, as soon as they enter the deadly current government and parliament circuit and the sights of parties and parties. In these months, in which the debate focuses mainly on the costs of politics, it would be good to ask: why have the parties not supported the reforms proposed by the Monti Government on this issue? Why hasn't even the Provinces been reduced? Italy is at the crossroads. The way I see it, you have to decide if you have to go to Athens or Paris. In other words, we must decide whether we want to maintain a pachydermic system that sacrifices governance and generates fragile instability and executives that have not completed the government programme, nor the reforms that Europe calls for account (and this is the framework that associates us with Greece, whose electoral law has produced four electoral rounds with as many unstable governments in just eight years), or whether instead we want to change the rules of the game, at last. I have a very personal, but convinced preference for French semi-presidency, because its rules and institutions make a very significant contribution to the restructuring of parties and their mode of competition, contribute to the possible formation of government coalitions and to empower citizens-electors. In France the restructuring of the parties had as the main flyer the competition for the Presidency of the Republic, and the parties survived. However, I would remind you that since the collapse of the First Republic, allowing citizens to choose by voting a leader and a majority has been the main source of strength and legitimacy of the whole reformist strategy on the subject of the form of government and electoral laws, from the referendums of 1991 and 1993 to the direct election of the mayor, the first and, so far, the happiest of the reforms that dates back to 1993. However, it is thought, however, the Federal Senate, limited parliamentaryism or semi-presidentialism to the French with double turn of college for the House and Statute of the oppositions have already been widely debated and clarified, also with draft laws presented in this and in the past legislatures. That is why it is now only a matter of choosing. And for this reason we think it is good that the instrument of the Convention has been abandoned, thought before, moreover, of the current majority of Government that is composed of the forces that, perhaps, more credibly can share this overall system, without of course excluding any further contributions. The Convention was not an effective instrument: it would have resulted in an extension of time and would not have brought with it a responsibility for the political forces of majority. Although the involvement of experts is desirable, however there may be, it is clear to everyone that the main technical issues have long been known, also thanks to the recent work of the so-called sages, and that the nodes to be dissolved are linked to the exercise of political responsibility, also because we must overcome the most various conservatisms. We would have liked, we would have preferred that within the summer break the Chambers proceed to the first reading of the reform, which is possible and desirable, following the procedure of Article 138 of the Constitution which does not prevent either rapid interventions or incisive interventions on Part II of the Constitution. In the interval between the first approval and the final one, the Chambers could then begin to prepare the electoral law consistent with the constitutional reform. The Civic Choice Group strongly supports the reform effort, but we would not want the chosen path to lead us off the road: it ended up weighing the path down rather than making it faster, betraying hesitations and reservations about the outcome of the process. We wouldn't want the route to end up looking dangerously like a tactic to make a living. Beware, this is a warning that we would like to address to everyone: the bet to which the majority parties have agreed to submit is precisely to turn away the suspicion that there is nothing more that can be done to save what remains of the system. We cannot fail this time too, and in order to succeed there is a condition: that the Government does not take as its objective only to last over time, perhaps cultivating the admonition of the Countium ('troncare e somire'), because it is appropriate to emphasize that the Government was born from exceptional cooperation between otherwise alternative parties to make exceptional choices. That is why - and this is my very personal opinion - I would have liked to see a draft constitutional reform proposed by the Government in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 138 on the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. If there is political agreement, it will not be a few hundred amendments that prevent reform. If there is no political agreement, it will not be a special Commission that will create it. The problem is about merit: what institutional reforms the country needs. Vote again without changing the Senate's electoral law is to bet on the roulette: the ball could end up in the right box or not, but the chances of a negative outcome are much higher than those of a positive outcome. So what do we do? Do we keep voting until luck laughs at us? The main road to governance is another: to lay the foundations of true governance, we need to make clear choices about the voting system, the form of government and bicameralism. They are things said and laughed: now we have to choose. And they are decisions that can no longer be postponed. The stability and functionality of our democracy depends on what the parties will be able to do in the area of institutional and political reform. The success of the forces inspired by the populist revolution is also the effect of the inconclusion of Italian politics in recent years and returning to the vote without having done anything would only be the confirmation of that inconclusion. Colleagues, after a long and frustrating pull and release, we have returned to the great coalition needed since November 2011, to the necessary dominance of politics on politics, but twenty years away from Tangentopoli, from the crisis that destroyed the First Republic, the economic and social situation is even more serious than that of the early nineties, because the reforms have been postponed for too long, the country is poorer and the international conditionings are stronger. Many are not fully aware of this condition and perhaps Civic Choice has come down from the elections compared to expectations, but certainly not the need to place the Monti agenda, that is, the reform programme necessary for Italy's first integration into the new Europe, at the heart of the legislature, because we must treat the economy not with patches, but with reforms that can absorb the competitiveness deficit. Italy does not grow because the total productivity of the factors is stagnant. Putting the country back in a position to produce wealth: this is our real problem, and for this we must offer a change both in politics and in the way we make politics. Civic choice will support this effort, also because it should not be forgotten that the vacuum of power is always filled and an impotent democracy always leaves a power vacuum, especially in times of crisis. It is up to us to decide whether we want it to be filled with a legitimate and democratic authority or an authority. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tonini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Mounier said that democracy is like a bicycle: it is only in balance if it advances, and it must also progress at a certain speed. The same belief can and should be said of this Government and this coalition, daughter of the courage of the political forces that gave birth to it together with the lucid patriotic passion of the President of the Republic. The broad understandings or serve to face the two great emergencies of the country - the economic-social and the political-institutional - with a determined, courageous and patient reformative action, or they do not serve, and then they will go into crisis very quickly, in the dismay of the country. The two emergencies, as we know, are closely interwoven and both have deep roots in the history of the country. It was discussed before 1984, the year of the Bozzi Commission. In that year one of the great constituent Fathers, Giuseppe Dossetti, released a long interview with Leopoldo Elia and Pietro Scoppola, in which he said that Part II of the Constitution was disappointing compared to the expectations of the young constituents for its weakness, the weakness of political institutions, a weakness that was the daughter of fear. First, Mr Finocchiaro spoke for a long time about fear, claiming that we must free ourselves from the feeling of fear. It was fear of one another that then produced a weak Part II. It was necessary to do so, but the country paid a price for that fear. Dossetti spoke in 1984. Ten years later, with the descent of Berlusconi, he would have said very different things, because in 1994 again the fear of one another came back. Reforms have failed because we have failed to build the conditions of trust: a confidence that cannot be a superficial sentiment, but must be based on deep political and institutional reasons. Today we have the historical task - this coalition has it, this Government has it - to overcome fear: to win it, not to exorcise it, establishing new rules that address the issue of the decision, because there is no democracy without κράτος, that is, without the power to decide alongside the theme of the decision a new generation of institutions, instruments and guarantee rules. For this reason, I believe that the semi-presidency hypothesis is the only system that puts governability away from the weakness of the parties. In this, alas, we are similar to France; the parliamentary systems of other countries are based on strong parties rooted in their history. Unfortunately, Italy is not in this condition. We have followed this path for a long time, but we have not managed to find the way out: semi-presidency with a single political chamber reduced in the number of members and elected with the double turn of college. Then, this new form of government must of course be accompanied by new guarantee institutions: first, the protection of the authorities guaranteed by the risk of politicization, because a President elected by the people is different from the President we have today; laws on conflict of interest; norms against corruption and above all a new Senate, expression of regional and local autonomy (and I add also of our Italian communities abroad), as the main counterweight to a political majority that does not have to take everything when the elections win. This is the design we have to confront. Of course the debate is open, the ability of the political forces to dissolve all the nodes is not yet ripe, but the path - in my view - is traced before us. Today we are making a procedural agreement: the motions that have been tabled, in particular the majority motion, commit the Government on a precise path, a path in which the constitution of the Commission as a place where the proposal must be formalized must, I believe, be accompanied immediately to a close discussion on the merit of the proposals that we must carry out. Woe to us if this choice (the choice to start with a limited and absolutely serious and rigorous correction of Article 138, for a special procedure, as it cannot fail to require an organic revision of the Constitution) was lived by the country, and above all was interpreted by us, as a diversion. We have before us the task of denying the scratching prophecy that Craxi repeatedly had to repeat (I believe that Nenni was the first author): when you do not want to solve a problem you create a commission. We must show ourselves and the country that instead we are setting up a Commission to really solve the problem facing Italian democracy. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u23	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with an issue considered by the most important and characteristic of the 17th legislature: constitutional reforms. A theme awaited by our fellow citizens (in addition to the most important, the revival of the economy, for which our fellow citizens are looking not only at us, but also throughout Europe) and a theme that the North League has always considered strategic over the years for the revival of Italy and the regions of the North, who ask loudly for the many promises reforms. Today we all hope and invoke them, almost like a slogan, without perhaps reminding us of what happened in the 14th legislature: the adoption by an absolute majority of the Constitutional Law (Amendments to Part II of the Constitution) published in the Official Gazette No 269 of 18 November 2005. Expressions such as "reduction in the number of parliamentarians," "Federal Senate," "imperfect bicameralism," "autonomous" were already present in one of the most important acts of constitutional reform of the last twenty years; at the time there was talk of an unprecedented event. Unfortunately, we all know how things went and, thanks to a referendum that rejected the measure, thanks also to those political forces sided guiltyly against the adoption of the constitutional amendment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Today, after eight years, we are here to deal with the same topics that could have already been a reality. It is for this reason that the path of revision of Part II of the Constitution is seen with favor from the North: to resume the interrupted path, a path that, without modifying the fundamental lines of the republican system, concretely adapts the institutional powers to the needs of the Nation. So, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to be able to go back to talking about overcoming equal bicameralism in order to streamline the decision-making process and avoid institutional jams such as we have just experienced, entrusting a House with the task of conferring or withdrawing trust on the Government. We've been talking about this for years. This proposal must be put into practice, not in order to pursue the fashions and anti-policies that call for "sacrifice victims" policy, but in order to make policy and policy action more efficient and effective, as the President-in-Office of the Council said. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We would like to reason on the establishment of a second Chamber - the Senate of Regions and Self-Governments - with differentiated competences and with the aim of achieving the integration of the central state with the self-governments. For years, the North League has been strongly demanding that we go in this direction. Only with the enhancement of the autonomy, of the regions, of our territories can we achieve legislation that is more concrete and close to the citizens, which is what we want. Only with the eye to the territory can we be able to respond fully to what is requested by the country. We hope for a commitment to quickly close the game of fiscal federalism, reviewing the fiscal relationship between center and periphery while safeguarding the centrality of the territories and regions. Again, for years now, the North League has been calling for fiscal federalism to become a reality, making itself a spokesperson for the needs of the territories. Through fiscal federalism we exalt our municipalities and our regions, bodies of the state with a history and a tradition; we exalt the abilities of our administrators, who will finally become responsible for their administrative action, without hiding behind state funding. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In view of what is happening in these days, which sees us as rather embarrassed, with a continuous debate and opposition within the same groups, a debate in Parliament on proposals made by a Convention open to the participation of authoritative non-parliamentary experts would be positive. A convention that can start its work immediately, propose reform work and can start from the parliamentary work of the last legislature and from the conclusions of the Committee of Wise Men wanted by President Napolitano. A Constitutional Convention which, in a similar way, has seen the light of day within the European Union and which has led, after successive intergovernmental conferences, to the organic reform of the Treaties establishing the Community and the European Union, through the Treaty of Lisbon. Dear colleagues, as you can see, we do not ask for the moon. We don't have any impossible plans. We are talking about common sense proposals. The same common sense praised in the speech of the President-in-Office of the Council, who, on the part of institutional reforms, also benefited from an opening of credit by our Group, the North League, which resulted in an abstention. That is why we urge the Government and the majority to continue in the direction they have taken, which lately we see tarnished by alternative proposals that have nothing to do with what the Government has proposed and that seem rather oriented to undo the cards or, worse still, to turn into timid attempts to test the ground and understand the reactions of the various comrades of the majority. The hope is that we will begin this process of institutional reforms with a long eye and looking in the medium to long term, as did our constituent Fathers, those who had the honour and the burden of writing the fundamental Charter of the Italian State. The hope is that the parties will not be overwhelmed by the desire for protagonism and the sirens of anti-politics, reasoning on the real needs of the state, on the necessary reforms and not on the fashionable ones. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Reforms, ladies and gentlemen, do not follow fashions: they are done for the good of the country! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The same common sense praised by many fellow senators during the address of the inauguration of the President of the Republic, who, with these words: " (...) reform of representative institutions, of relations between Parliament and Government, between State and Regions, (...) a strong attention for the strengthening and renewal of the organs and powers of the State (...)" managed to snatch the applause, I hope sincere, of the two branches of Parliament. Again, that common sense which our fellow citizens, who may even be listening to us and who are our employers, are asking politics with a loud voice at the moment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Campanella and Morra. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zanettin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u25	Mr President, Mr Quagliariello, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is intended to be a contribution, which I dare to hope for an original and non-conformist minimum, to this debate on institutional reforms, with the intention of rejecting some commonplaces which, in my opinion, pollute a peaceful confrontation on the current electoral law and on the process of constitutional reforms that we are hopefully about to launch. In the prevailing opinion, the current electoral law is pointed to as the worst possible and the cause of all the evils of our system. It is not by chance commonly referred to as "Porcellum." I do not agree with that conclusion, and I will try to explain the reasons for it in the short time available to me. Those who criticize this law say, first of all, that it would be the cause of Parliament's current alleged ungovernability: this is the first commonplace to be destroyed. All the scientific studies - I am referring to the analysis of Professor D'Alimonte, but also to the conclusions of Labor Ele, the Centre for electoral analysis of the University Roma Tre, cited in a recent article of "Il Corriere della Sera" (Il Corriere della Sera), published on May 12th - show instead that, in the face of a result such as the one gained in the last political elections, with the two major coalitions of centroright and centroleft in the Chamber separated only by 120,000 votes and with the 5 Star Movement that alone has reached more than 25% of the votes, also the "Mattarellum" and even an electoral law with single turn colleges (in English, to be understood) would have determined a result that would not have allowed either of the two different coalitions to govern alone. To give an example, with the Mattarellum, to which many colleagues seem to want to return today without much discussion, the result of last February's elections would have determined the non-governability of Parliament, since in the House our coalition of center-right would have reached 191 seats, against the 124 achieved with the "Porcellum," the center-left would have achieved 192, instead of 340, and instead the 5 Star Movement would have reached 67 seats, against the 108 today boasted. But beyond the fact that the "Mattarellum" would reward the center-right and the 5 Star Movement and punished the center-left, the evidence remains that no coalition would have been, like today, able to govern alone. The cause of ungovernability was therefore not the electoral law, but the expressed democratic vote of the electoral bodies, which he wanted! The second criticism concerns the alleged lack of free choice of candidates to express the party through the so-called blocked lists. It is claimed that by this law the citizens would be expropriated of the power to choose their representatives in Parliament and the elected would only be appointed. Anyone who raises this criticism, however, pretends to forget, or perhaps ignores, that the same drawback also manifested itself in the uninomial colleges. Most of them were armored, in the sense that, for historical reasons or of tradition or social roots, in such colleges a coalition was certainly prevalent over the other, and therefore could run anyone indicated by the national secretariat, with the guarantee of safe election. Those who have been elected in the 1996 or 2001 electoral rounds, like those who speak, with the system of the single-member college, remember perfectly the polemics (all similar to those of today) that accompanied the decline of the candidatures of center-right or center-left in the different colleges. To exemplify I mention one case among all, the most striking and the most famous: I refer to the candidacy imposed by the national secretariat for Olive, in the November 1997 elections of Antonio Di Pietro in the armored senatorial college of Mugello. Although the candidate was not at all an expression of the territory and did not belong to the party most entrenched in that territory, he obtained a Bulgarian percentage: over 67 percent of the votes. Do we want to remember the embarrassment of the voters of many colleges forced to vote, for coalition logics, candidates expression of parties other than the one in which they militated? But the interference of national secretariats on the indication of candidates in single-name colleges is not only an Italian phenomenon: where the system provides for single-name colleges, armored colleges are the prerogative of the secretariats of parties. Do we want to remember the contestant (and less fortunate than Di Pietro's) candidacy imposed by the party in the safe college (it is said, in hindsight) of La Rochelle, in the last legislative elections, of Ségolène Royal? In conclusion, if we analyse the subject without ideological prejudice and with scientific rigour, we must conclude that the problem of the interference of the national secretariats in the nominations exists equally, both with the blocked lists and with the single colleges. Finally, it is argued that the current electoral law would be the cause of strong abstentionism and detachment of citizens from politics. It does not explain, however, how with this same electoral law the turnout at the polls has reached very high points in the past. In the 2006 elections for the House of Deputies, 83 percent of those entitled voted, 80.5% in 2008 and 75% in the latest policies. Last weekend for the local elections, with the direct election of mayors and the election of thousands of municipal councillors with preference voting, the turnout at the polls was limited, at best, to 65%. If it were to depend on electoral law, we would have to think of a greater turnout at the polls in the local elections and a smaller turnout at the political elections, where there are blocked lists: but it is exactly the opposite. In fact, abstentionism does not depend on the electoral law, but on the crisis of the parties, which today appear unable to solve the real problems of the people. As I said, I am convinced that the current law is not the worst electoral law possible and it is not the cause of all our evils: it is simply an electoral law like so many others, with so many defects and also some value, such as that of tending to bipolarism. I do not understand why the current electoral law should be considered inemissable, as some members of the Democratic Party have said in recent weeks. I do not understand why someone wants to return quickly to the "Mattarellum," when it is shown that this law does not solve any of the inconveniences that are attributed to the "Porcellum" and creates others. It is well known that the Consultative Committee will shortly decide on the constitutionality of the majority prize provided for by this law, and has anticipated a negative judgment. Why, by deleting the issue of the electoral law from the motions that we are voting on today, does this Parliament seem to want to abdicate its role and refuse to change the points referred to as critical? Why should we leave it to the Constitutional Court to intervene when we have the time and opportunity to do so? I would not like the parties of our majority government to be missing an important opportunity today to give the country a signal of cohesion and ability to deal with the problems. In short, I share your position, Minister Quagliariello, that it does not make any sense today to make a stable option in favour of this or that voting system, without knowing what will be the final goal of the reform process. Let us therefore immediately secure the current electoral law, with the necessary minimum changes, and then focus on the reforms of the Constitution: we can certainly find common points. I can think of an interview about the "Corriere della Sera" of 13 April last released by Matteo Renzi, in which he stated: We are launching a strong proposal. The mayor of Italy: a new electoral law, thanks to which it is immediately known who won. Well, isn't the mayor of Italy Renzi speaks of the President of the Republic directly elected by the citizens, who has always been proposed by Silvio Berlusconi? If we really want the mayor of Italy, then it will be obvious to opt for the French dual-round electoral system, mutualizing that system that ensures the Fifth French Republic stability and governability. In summary, I believe that if this Parliament is able to leave aside the small conveniences of the shop and the artificial polemics, and with a joint effort it will find a synthesis on what unites us most, a reformer path can be started and can end with fruitful results. We all have the responsibility not to miss this historic and unrepeatable opportunity. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u26	He asked Senator Matteoli to speak on the order of business and, given the importance of the matter, he has the immediate option.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u27	Mr President, I also take the floor on the order of business on behalf of the President of the 13th Commission, Senator Marinello. We are examining draft law No 576 and we are not in a position to dismiss the measure this week, because some of the amendments tabled by the Government are still on the move: some of them have been tabled; another is expected to be tabled this afternoon. The 5th Commission, which is called upon to give the opinion, which is also binding, is called for at 4.30 p.m. to examine another measure and should of course also examine our own. I therefore ask, Mr President, that the debate on the draft law already scheduled for today be postponed until next week, because we are not in a position this week to ensure that it can be completed in the Commission and that the measure can therefore arrive in the Chamber accompanied by the reports.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u28	Senator Matteoli, the Presidency takes note of your request. I will arrange to convene the Conference of Leaders in the morning to assess the need you have explained.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u29	Senator Latorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, with this debate - as my colleagues who spoke before me have pointed out - perhaps the most important phase of this parliamentary term takes shape. The stakes are high, indeed I would like to say very high: on the ground of constitutional reforms and the new electoral law, politics - all politics - is played the possibility to recover that centrality and that credibility that are indispensable to give back a future to our country. Failure this time could compromise its democratic hold. Moreover, even last Sunday and Monday, we have received a clear signal from the local elections of how deep the gap between citizens and institutions, between politics and society, with a percentage of abstentionism that has never been so high. If, of course, the Democratic Party has been the one that has ruled the most, and can be considered the one that won this turn of the local elections, this cannot be a reason to do the ostriches and put your head in the sand: indeed, we feel even more the weight of responsibility. Today we move the first step by approving a motion defining the path and procedures for achieving reforms. I want to say straight away - because we will hear this refrain in the next few hours - that this process must exalt Parliament's centrality for us: no coup d'état. Only those who are out of reality can think that this passage can feed on some subterfuge; indeed, the new elements that are intended to be introduced by the constitutional law, which we will discuss shortly from here must not in any way compromise the democratic process, if anything they must strengthen it, certainly speeding up the times of the decisions - this I think is right - but without disrupting Article 138 and providing, however, for the confirmation referendum. I would like to stress this point very much, because it will be important in this debate not only for the commitment but also for the convergence of a wide range of parliamentary forces, far beyond the borders of the present majority. A majority which, of course, has one of the fundamental points in this respect that explain their own reason for being: we must, however, also know how to go beyond these boundaries. It is therefore the opposition forces that I wish to address in this speech, starting with the certainly more representative opposition group in this House: I refer to the friends of the 5 Star Movement, to whom I am of course very respectful, the respect due to such a large parliamentary group. You have entered Parliament with a cry: We are going to open Parliament up like a tuna box, but you also noticed that not only is Parliament not a tuna box, but that the problem is not only to open it up, but above all to reform it, making it more streamlined and effective. In any case, always to stay at your metaphor, you also realized, at your expense, that then voters never throw the can of tuna, if anything change the can opener! [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] Certainly as a majority we want to move forward, but with you and the League we want to confront and seek all understandings. In the same way we want to confront the Left Ecology and Freedom, a political force with which we already have many points in common on these issues, I hope not compromised by the different attitude we had on the occasion of the formation of the Government. So let us start with this majority motion to start an immediate debate on the merits, which will loosen any ambiguity - and there are too many present - on the objectives of the reform and on the form of government and state. The profound changes that have taken place in recent years and the even supranational dimension of problems and their solutions today certainly confront us with new scenarios, proposing in radically new terms the relationship between democracy and decision; hence it will have to move a debate, aware that the strong demand for decision addressed to the institutions cannot be satisfied at the expense of the moments of democracy, because the latter is strong only when it decides and changes. That is precisely why I think we need a not minimal approach to this debate, but a great innovative courage, knowing that there must be a link between electoral law and institutional reforms. In the name of this awareness it was useful to avoid in this motion any reference to merit, even to electoral law: in a motion that indicates a path and a procedure, in fact, it would have been a misunderstanding. Finally, it is well known that on the subject of the so-called safeguard clause in this House there are different options, which we will be comparing in the coming days, although the real safeguard clause is only in the concrete political will, and not in some circumstance. We'll discuss it. Meanwhile today we write the word "beginning" and we take a commitment before the country that I would like to define moral, even before political, to move forward without further delay. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bruno.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u31	Colleagues, we have heard the news of the death of Franca Rame, senator of the 15th legislature. I call on the House to observe one minute's recollection. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u32	Let's resume our work. Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. 11:33 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u33	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the initiatives for institutional reform have been defined in the statements of the Head of State and the President of the Council as urgent and unavoidable and certainly must be oriented towards the search for structures that respond more to the need for civil, social and economic development of the country, to the attention to the suffering of our population, to overcoming the social and territorial imbalances of the country and to an effective aggression of the structural crisis that goes through our democracy, our society and our economy. It is these hours the announcement of a next quarter in recession, and therefore the worsening of the economic crisis is emerging, confirming the inadequacy of the policy of recessive austerity to which we have been subjected in recent months. This is therefore an area of parliamentary political activity, broad, complex and difficult, but necessary, to which we do not believe that the Left Group Ecology and Freedom can be foreign. As a member of the Mixed Group, we therefore believe that we must fully participate in the efforts that Parliament intends to support in the reform process. In this sense, I believe that Mr Latorre should be reassured, because the scope of the reforms is certainly a ground that Left Ecology and Freedom does not identify as confrontation, especially in the relationship with the Democratic Party and the other components of the center-left alliance, which works (and well) in many parts of the country, in many institutional levels, and that we believe must also represent the perspective of the government of the country. In the meantime, let us say something about the current electoral law: we believe that it should be repealed without delay. The electoral system must be calibrated with respect to the need for democratic participation and never sacrificed again for an alleged guarantee of governability that, as we have seen, does not in fact produce positive effects in the economic and social system of the country. The other issue that I think needs to be addressed immediately concerns the value and also the simplicity and quality with which the Constitutions have defined the modalities of participation of the people in the definition of national politics. Article 49 of the Constitution is very simple, and reads: "All citizens have the right to join freely in parties in order to contribute democratically to determining national policy". What is there in this proposition of dangerous I never understood it and I cannot understand it even today. I can only say that there is a lack of legislation, not the Constitution, but the clarification of the obligations that those free associations have to guarantee so that the people, the representatives, have the confidence of the people who represent them, so that they can account as clearly, transparently and explicitly as possible for their initiative, for their activities representing those needs and aspirations, for those interests. Therefore, Article 49 of the Constitution should in any case be declined by appropriate legislation, which is not deleted. Its value is a value of freedom: the right to associate freely in parties, i.e. in organizations, in order to contribute democratically to determining national politics. Simplicity has an extraordinary legal beauty, and it should not be forgotten in the Constitution. All of us often do, because we have this habit, as it were, of media communication by pills, so if an institutional level like that of the Provinces comes into crisis, we say: "We abolish the Provinces." But what are the Provinces? They are a way of governing the territory. And then the edict with which we delete them is not enough: the value of Article 5 of the Constitution must also be revised in this sense. Article 5 is very important and is the most important part of our Charter: The Republic, one and indivisible, recognizes and promotes the local autonomy; it implements in the services that depend on the State the largest administrative decentralisation; - i.e. it approaches the citizen, his needs, his needs -- appropriate -- which it has not done, because it has centralist and authoritarian practices -- the principles and methods of its legislation to the needs of autonomy and decentralisation. So, it gives a clear address. It is not enough therefore to say: "We abolish the Provinces": the autonomous system as a whole must be revised, and it is necessary to replace, if necessary, that institutional level with a new system capable of affirming the centrality of the Municipalities in the planning and implementation of territorial interventions, according to the best balance of the economic and social development of the Country, in all its parts. To this end, it must be avoided that the abolition of an institutional level then determines damage: the Provinces have legal relations in place, they have staff, they have functions and tasks they carry out, they have public finances. And it is not enough a small rule written in a decree, as Senator Monti did with his Government: it is necessary to define in detail a path that establishes times and methods of reorganization of the system of autonomy, which treats as necessary the attribution of competences, the functioning of bureaucratic structures, the management of the professional and operational assets, the set of existing legal relationships (including the assets), the coordination and the management associated of the tasks and the organization of the management of the services towards the communities. The aim, therefore, must be the wider exercise of popular sovereignty at every level of the responsibility of the government, in all the articulations of the Republic. We are for an autonomous and democratic state and we are opposed to centralist and authoritarian visions: those which, to understand us, still constitute the form taken by the European Union, which deals more with the Executives than directly with the peoples and their political representatives. Then from this debate we must not delete another important aspect: the functioning of bureaucratic structures, i.e. the operational structures of the State, of the Republic, at its various institutional levels, from the Ministries, to the Regions, to the Councils, to the Municipalities. Without a machine that is structurally organized to carry out the tasks of government of public institutions and is mainly oriented to respond to the needs and needs of the people and not treat the citizen as a kind of subject, Minister, and all our laws will end up shipwrecking in the bureaucracies that prevent by nature, because they are conservative, the implementation of the reform process. Every known road is hardly abandoned by those who feel guaranteed by a system that, good or bad, has given them a dimension of life, a power to be exercised, often even detached from political authority. We have also invented a bureaucratic leadership that had the task of being third, impartial, towards the citizen, therefore not bound to political belongings; after that, Minister, that leadership played on its own and in many cases built paths of dubious legality - certainly of dubious legitimacy - in the relationship with the citizen, with his needs, with businesses, with the economic system, with the entire Italian society. This issue cannot be abandoned, because then it produced another degeneration: that of the trust appointment of politics, thus making that bureaucracy even much less impartial than it was supposed to be. For these reasons, we believe that these issues should be dealt with in the context of the reform process. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u34	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u35	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the motion No 47 tabled by the majority that we are discussing today addresses a very important issue in my opinion and which should be highlighted in some respects: I am referring to the issue of the procedure. President Finocchiaro has well illustrated all the positive elements that she has found in the motion tabled by the majority, that have escaped a whole series of serious concerns regarding the hypothesis of derogations, rifts or abnormal procedures regarding what is provided for in our Constitution, and I take them all. It seems to me that the issue of electoral law has also rightly been extrapolated (although it remains in the background in a condition of consistency, but in a distinct position). I would also like to point out, with regard to the many speeches on this subject, that the electoral law can certainly have a connection, a consistency of its own, with constitutional changes, but automatically linking an electoral system to a form of government is absolutely wrong, does not correspond to reality and is not written anywhere. I would like to remind you that, as a system of government unchanged, we have moved from a majority system with single-member colleges to a proportional system with a majority prize. In relation to the electoral law all the defects of the various systems have also been illustrated; I certainly agree with a whole series of defects of the so-called "Mattarellum," but the current electoral law exasperates them in a negative way in order to make its change improcrastinable. However, since the motion talks about a constitutional plan with some guidelines to address very important changes in Part II of the Constitution (which range from the form of State and Government to other changes), it is clear that the issue of the procedure is an essential point that cannot be settled with insufferance: the procedures, the rules, represent that aspect of democracy which is formal democracy, which alone would be empty, but which is the foundation of substantial democracy. This means that, although the majority motion is very careful and adheres to the constitutional dictation, I would like to express some concerns to the Government. In particular, since we are going - the ambition is that - to make profound changes, it is important that there is no compression of the procedure provided for in Article 138 of the Constitutional Charter. It is also okay to expect, perhaps, to have a confirmation referendum, regardless of the majorities with which the reforms or amendments to the Constitution are adopted. However, I would remind you that this instrument is additional in terms of guarantee and does not provide the element of deepening and discussing the substance of the changes and reforms that we are going to make in Parliament. Moreover, I would not like us to dump and continue to dump on the institutions a weakness of politics. It is widely held among many Members of Parliament and in the public opinion that the system provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution is particularly burdensome, so as to strengthen our Constitution in a particular way compared to other systems. But that is not the case: in Western democratic systems, the Constitutions provide for revision mechanisms, in many cases, which are more aggravated than those provided for in Article 138 of our Constitution. I would like to mention a number of examples in this regard: Germany always requires a qualified majority of two thirds; Belgium provides for the approval of the amendment of the Constitution to include new elections and therefore a new Parliament to approve constitutional changes; the democracies of Northern Europe, such as Sweden, Denmark and Norway, provide not only for the dissolution of Parliament and the adoption of the text by the new Parliament, but also in some cases for the confirmation referendum, which is also envisaged in Spain; in the United States there is a complex procedure involving the Congress and the parliaments of the States of the Union. I could go on. Ours, among the rigid Constitutions, is placed at a minimum threshold, such as that detectable in France. It is therefore necessary that Parliament's role in the constitutional bill, and therefore the possibility of deepening and discussing this matter, be carefully safeguarded. Moreover, the mechanism provided for in Article 138 worked very well with the existing system until 1994. With the introduction of the majority system and the majority prizes we have checked that making changes to the Constitution is very easy. There have been examples of this. In 2001, for example, the then majority modified Title V of Part II of the Constitution, which was then confirmed by referendum, while in 2005 the majority of the opposite sign made a profound modification, then rejected by the referendum. But why is that? Because the weakness of political forces has not allowed us to grasp the spirit of the Constitution, which seeks to foster changes that have a broad basis with the two-thirds majority. I therefore hope that we do not think of putting together a downward compromise because we like an electoral system and link it to semi-presidency. Personally, for example, I believe that semi-presidency needs many counterweights and laws that this Parliament would not be able to approve; I hope that a real debate will take place on this matter, as there is a common basis for overcoming bicameralism and reducing the number of Members. Finally, on the form of government, on the model of state and electoral law, I believe that the German system works much better. I therefore hope that there will be a debate on this matter without prejudice and preconceived agreements. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u36	Senator Mauro Giovanni is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u37	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote firmly in favour of the first-signed motion by Senators Zanda and Schifani, and we would like to congratulate the Government on the action it has taken these days, immediately after confidence, in order to quickly start this phase of reforms which we consider essential. My group's senators have firmly voted for the government's confidence in the reformist will expressed by President Letta in his policy statements. We share both the path and the method. Mr Quagliariello was indeed speaking: he had said that he would fully involve Parliament in the paths and this full synergy with the Government we have already felt in these initial steps. Now is the time for accomplishments. We cannot fail, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot at all fail in this mission because it is essential that Parliament not only gives the impression but is also the maximum expression of the commitment needed to modernise our republican institutions. Our Constitution has become cumbersome, the instruments available to the institutions, the Government and Parliament have become obsolete and we must succeed in bringing about real change. Of course, we will act on Part II of the Constitution, we will see and modify Titles I, II and III, then we will skip Title IV to go straight to Title V, because touching Title IV seems strange: it is a scaramantic attitude for which, like number 17, even Title IV could lead badly to the sharing of reforms. Already this lack of courage - Minister Quagliariello, I take his smile - leads me to say that perhaps that departure of fear, to which I think Senator Tonini referred just now, should also encourage the start of this path. But it doesn't matter, perhaps the good work that we will do on the modification of the other Titles will be able to make us think about what we consider taboos today. To whom do we respond, in this reform that we are going to make? We have to respond to people, to citizens. You see, when it comes to reforming the Constitution, I often have to see, just going among the people, as some almost think that we will touch the anthem of Italy or our sense of homeland, because rightly they used to us as children, in schools, that the Constitution is the great foundation of our nation. Our approach, therefore, must be to show that the Constitution is beautiful as it is alive, that it is important because it manages to follow the evolution and changes that have already occurred in society: because yes, dear colleagues and dear colleagues, we are lagging behind the reform process that Italy needs and it must therefore be made to understand that the Constitution, and the State are friends insofar as they can fully interpret the moral, ideal and also political tensions, in the highest sense, that already hover in our territory. So we are going to touch on important aspects and in this sense President Finocchiaro has opened the dialogue in a meaningful way on the overall vision that we intend to adhere to in the pursuit of this reform effort: we cannot, we must not and absolutely do not want to see step by step, part by part, things that, on the contrary, must have an overall harmony and vision. It is not possible to conceive the form of the State and the reforms that concern the structure without these being harmoniously synergized between them. It is not possible to make an electoral law that does not respond to a vision of the government of the country. Similarly, it is not possible to talk about the abolition of the Provinces if we have not identified what is the system to give protagonism and visibility to fundamental parts of our country. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] Over 8,000 municipalities constitute the fabric and territory of our nation and the fact of being small municipalities does not mean anything, indeed they are the true wealth of our territory, as they are the garrison against the degradation of the environment of that territory. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] Do we want to abolish the Provinces? Has this become a password to contain expenses? What do we offer, then, to the government of the vast area? What model do we want to offer before abolishing an organizational instrument that may have failed in some of its forms, but which in any case was a garrison of government of a territory? [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Bisinella]] I see that the friends of the League approve, despite the differences of approach on other issues: but we cannot fail to agree on this. In setting ourselves at this moment of reform, what future do we imagine for Italy? If we all, in the meetings and qualified places of discussion, say that we should live of tourism, of our beauties, that our future development is based on the territory, on what we can express in an original way as Italy and as Italians, how do we give ourselves systems of government that do not guarantee the protagonism of the territories? The territories, the people who reside there, are the souls of this reform. Therefore, with this secularism, without dogmas, in an unconfessional way, we face a debate that cannot be political-party. I listened carefully to the speeches of the friends of the 5 Star Movement, the League and the Mixed-SEL Group, who today do not participate in a convinced way in the path realized by the Government to give life to the reforms but whose contribution cannot be done without. We are talking about Italy and Italians: I do not like to hear that we can find diversity in the intellectual approach and honesty, of mind and behavior with respect to these issues. Too many look at us, especially our young, dear friends. I come from Sicily, a land in many ways very difficult, but that in this debate would like to participate in a strong way, with interest. We are a Special Statute Region. I would like the government today to have the courage, which I hope to find in Parliament, to discuss again the "speciality" of Sicily, to discuss again a system of specialties that I consider to be outdated, dear colleague Berger (I know I do not meet his sharing). I know that the specialty was identified at a time when centrifugal forces compared to the national state had to be sedated. That was the specialty to maintain the unity of the national territory, but today, I assure you, Sicily no longer wants to be a star of the American flag, as I assure you and I think that in this Europe where we ourselves, the Italian State, are regions, regionalism must be redesigned from the bases. In this we must have courage and enthusiasm. Dear colleagues, there is a season for us that can be exciting: reforms. A season in which we can make inventiveness and tools available to the future of our country. In fact, working on this we are working on the economic development of our country, on its harmony, on its putting it back on line. Sometimes reforms have been carried out that have had the same effect as a needle when you do not identify the vein of the arm in which you want to insert the medicine: the medicine has not entered the body, the arm has swollen and we have done only one damage. I wish, Mr President, that this would be the time for us to listen, apart from the slogans that we often have to say to the public. I regret that my time is running out. I would therefore like to thank the competent Commissions for the debate that has taken place, and above all I would like to see no longer a Parliament almost unarmed with respect to the society it calls and asks for, but a Parliament which is the absolute protagonist of institutional and economic revival through reforms. [[Applause from the LAG and LN-Aut groups and Senator Ferrara Mario]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u38	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u39	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that this further opportunity will be a real, real historic opportunity for change and reform for our Constitution. The approach is absolutely positive. The awareness of all parliamentary groups and political forces is clear about the need not to miss this opportunity. I have to say that I very much appreciated, in the hearing with which Mr Quagliariello initiated this path in the Commissions, the reference to an affair which does not have to do with the Constitution but which is very important, namely the issue of the reform of parliamentary regulations, often considered as a secondary source of legislation (and they are secondary to others, there is no doubt), but we know well, we know this here in Parliament's classrooms, how conditioning the Rules of our Assemblies are for the functioning of democracy. The same procedures, the same repetitiveness of the discussions, the way in which the amendments are presented, the priority of this or that proposal, the possibility for a government with a clear and broad popular mandate to implement its programme: well, as well as of course the constitutional rules, the parliamentary events and the actions of the governments depend to a very good extent on the parliamentary regulations. In the last parliamentary term an attempt was made (and the current Minister for Constitutional Reform was the protagonist, in a sharing of assessments with Groups of different locations) to reform the Rules of Procedure. You were right, Minister, to take that argument up again in your hearing, because I believe that it is a fundamental aspect in order to allow a decision-making and ruling democracy to allow those who have the popular mandate to implement it. I followed the debate (and to some extent I also participated) which preceded the decisions that we must take today. Today it is a start, today we do not decide what the structure of our Republic must be, but we have a path. I hope that the method will not yield to involutions and procedures that are too baroque, but will enable us to decide. Perhaps Article 138 is not enough; another way of doing things has been suggested. I hope, given that the motion that we are going to approve today sets out an address, that the rules that will translate this motion will allow us not to be over-involved in procedures, because then it will have to be decided in the end. I also tell someone clearly that they do not want to presume to take advantage (this is more true for the House, in fact, for the type of national prize, than for the Senate) of a numerical superiority achieved, in parliamentary representation, with a democratic consensus only of little greater than other coalition. It means that some bodies called upon to carry out the investigation are right to take into account the democratic balance, the votes achieved, the popular weight of political forces and not only its parliamentary representation which, in the case of the House, is one of the reasons for discussion on the electoral law: a small difference has allowed a prize that has expanded beyond measure the parliamentary representation. Of course there will also be counselling facilities: I tell a minister who is also a professor. Listen to professors and experts, but then refer to the popular will of referendums and the responsibility of political forces. The advice of a professor is always valuable, the decision of a politician can always be useful. I believe that Parliament should not have awe about the experts who will flock to give good advice when one cannot set a virtuous or bad example. As far as the question of the referendum is concerned, I personally believe that having assumed the safeguard mechanism of making decisions subject to a popular evaluation is a positive choice, because it is true that Article 138 excludes the use of referendums if majorities over two thirds are formed, but the safeguard clause that can always be a popular judgment is, in my opinion, a deterrent. Since we know how public opinion is oriented towards certain mechanisms of direct democracy and presidentialism, I believe that knowing that a referendum can still lead the legislator to take full account of this instance, because offering public opinion a product that does not live up to the expectations of the popular will could then lead that reform to be rejected. Among other things, I believe that this is important, because one of the defects of our excellent constitution is that there was never a popular viaticum: the 1948 Constitution was not submitted to a popular referendum; there was an institutional referendum in 1946 but then, when the Constitution was launched, it entered into force, and this issue has always emerged in the constitutional and political debate. Foreseeing a popular response, whatever the outcome of the reform, I believe is an act of wisdom, and for the respect of the people and to induce Parliament to make choices that will have to take account of a people's harmony in advance. As far as electoral law is concerned, I think it is clear that we should discuss it after institutional choice, bearing in mind that all electoral laws contain their failure. In the United States there is one of the most powerful presidential systems and yet the elected President often has to deal - as at this stage too - with a different orientation Congress, thanks to the mid-term elections and democratic mechanisms of that country. The French system, which many of us praise, also knew the cohabitation between a Socialist President and the Gullist Governments. In Germany we went to major coalitions, such as the one that currently lives in Italy. Even the system of mayors, which is often praised in Italy, has not prevented that in recent days the electoral desertion has been very strong, because if Rome has been almost 50%, at national level it has largely exceeded 30, reaching almost 40. Also that method, which allows you to choose the elected candidate with the preference and elect the mayor with the double turn did not bring great attractiveness. This is to say that all electoral laws have their own fallibility. There is no perfect one, otherwise in the world it would have been disseminated and copied by all countries. In each one there are virtuous aspects and negative aspects. So, I don't sign up for the fetishist list of this or that law, because each one of them is fallible. Of course we must overcome what we have. But I have very much appreciated the fact that in the motion signed by the majority groups it is written to us that any urgent intervention must be widely shared. Nobody thinks they're surreptitiously planning a reversal of concepts. First also Senator Bruno was very clear: first the Constitution, then the electoral law. Urgent maintenance work because you have to take the fire extinguisher behind the glass? Let them be shared and truly minimum and urgent, because we want a real reorganization of the electoral law which is the result of a real constitutional reorganization. It is right to revise Title V of the Constitution - too many overlaps between the central state and the regions -, obviously respecting the autonomy and federalist reform. I am thinking of transport networks, energy networks and telecommunications networks, which are currently the subject of a great deal of discussion for their compatibility or separation from the main operator, for which national and transnational aspects require changes. I therefore think that Title V should be revised, of course, I repeat, in accordance with local autonomy, because there are requirements that need to find national regulation. Last but not least, the subject is presidentialism. Personally, I presented a bill of revision of the Constitution that literally incorporates the rules that we passed in this Senate Chamber in July 2012, so not a hundred years ago - then the end of the legislature and the development of the political situation did not allow the final passages - which provided for the direct election by universal suffrage of the President of the Republic and its participation in government meetings, the definition of laws that spell compatibility, conflicts of interest and whatever else, the custody of other person of the presidency of the CSM. Presidentialism has been talked about for a long time: Calamandrei spoke about it at the Constitution, the group "Europa 70" spoke about it in Catholic circles, they spoke about secular-republican circles, they spoke about the right of Giorgio Almirante, Silvio Berlusconi spoke about it. There has also been some sort of de facto reform. Minister Quagliariello, the president. Senator Gasparri, please come to the conclusion. Gasparri (PdL). I'll finish. I was saying, the photograph with the President of the current Republic who was gathering you and the Presidents of the Commission seemed to me a gollist photograph, because the President of the Republic legitimately entered into the debate. So we have to adapt our institutions to that photograph. I don't know if we're going to Paris, Berlin or Washington. I hope that we will stay in Rome, the cradle of law, for a presidential reform that will make our democracy more modern and efficient. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u40	Colleagues, we greet the students and the teachers of the Istituto tecnico Statale (State Technical Institute) (Lucia Mangano) in Catania. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Chiti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u42	Madam President, Minister, many newspapers today have reported an expression that has also been used in our debate: the reform train starts again. In this expression there is a concern about the outcome that in the past had this path and the urgency that this time, with the commitment of all, can instead get to the right station. This certainly concerns the political forces that support the Government but also those who are in opposition, because institutional reforms, the updating of the Constitution and electoral law are not only the prerogative of the majority of the moment. From this point of view, both in the motions and in the interventions (it is obvious that not all of them can be shared, as mine may not be), I found at least the will and the willingness to confront. The motion tabled by the Groups that support the Government addresses the issues to be submitted to the reform process: the form of government and state, the overcoming of equal bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the times for constitutional projects and also the instruments. These are not irrelevant issues (I personally consider them important) and they are a necessary condition, but of course, I say frankly, they are not a sufficient condition: we must not lose sight of the fundamental issues, which have already been mentioned and which will condition the outcome of the institutional reforms and the effectiveness and speed of their process. The key issue to be resolved is and remains that of the form of government, as you said, Minister, in the Joint Constitutional Affairs Commissions at the hearing. Do we strengthen the Parliamentary Government by electing in Parliament, in the Political Chamber, the Prime Minister, by assigning new tasks (not only a proposal to appoint, but also to revoke ministers and to request early elections), by introducing constructive mistrust, or by choosing semi-presidency or, in any case, by direct election by the citizens of the government summit? It is important that, in general, for most political forces, there is no such thing today, compared to these alternatives, absolutizations of principle, ideological prejudices: it is certainly a step forward compared to the past. It is right to go to a merit assessment of the innovations that we want to introduce in the Constitution in relation to the needs of the country, because choices are not the same. An assessment also of the tasks of democracy in our time, at a time when there is the challenge of globalisation, and of the framework for achieving a supranational democracy in Europe. These are the merit assessments for a serious comparison, but it is necessary to decide, and above all it is necessary to decide when to decide and who to decide. I say clearly that I do not believe that it is a bicameral Commission, a Committee of the 40 that decides this, and not out of distrust (even if it was composed of forty Leonardo da Vinci): for a problem of democracy, democratic participation and the role that belongs to everyone. I think that this is an important point, because here and not in the reinforced referent powers there can be the snare of a role that, with a delegation in white, comes to be too strong, and, at the same time, here you could nest the risk of a failure in the final path, when, after the pronunciation of the Chambers, you will have to have the confrontation with the citizens. You know, Minister, that in the last parliamentary term I had presented, together with other senators - Mr Ceccanti and others - a constitutional bill for an advisory referendum for guidance. I think that if this had been achieved our work today would be easier, just as it would be easier to talk about skills, which cannot be cleared too quickly, given that this proposal is contained at a point in the motion tabled by the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement. My heart would be there: the problem is that today we are in different times. However, if this is formally, for the time being, no longer possible, Parliament - the House and the Senate - must give its address to the Bicameral Commission, the Committee of the Forties, with respect to the form of government. If we do not do so, the Committee of the 40 will not be able to work, proceed, conclude positively, and then bring back coherent projects. Parliament must decide this direction, and it must do so at this point, through its parliamentary groups, not only through the commitment, which the Minister has stated, to a public consultation; we must try as much as possible to involve the citizens, because the sooner and the more the citizens come together, the more this right station we will reach it. I shall conclude with one final remark concerning the electoral law. I agree that the electoral law is closely linked to the form of government. Then, making the choice of strengthening the parliamentary government or the choice of presidentialism in a short time to give this direction to the Committee of the Forties would also make it possible not to need buffer electoral laws. In fact, once Parliament has decided on the form of government, while the Committee of the Forties is implementing constitutional projects, the electoral law can proceed at this point and, as it is consistent with what will happen, but it has faster times because it is an ordinary law, we will be able to avoid a split, which there would be, which becomes absurd. It would be wrong to divide into a provisional law; it would actually mean either not to proceed with the reforms or, in any case, to pave the way for an already difficult road to further obstacles. In any case, I would like to stress this, in my opinion - I hope I do not get to this - the maintenance of the "Porcellum" to constitutionalize it would be genuinely unacceptable and indigestible. If we proceed along this path, I am convinced, as I said and as I wrote, for the restoration of the Mattarella law. My conclusion is this: I do not consider it an adventurous ride away from the fact that the Committee of the Forties has a stronger referent power, but at the same time - we will assess it on the merits of the proposals of the Constitutional Law - I believe that, as has also been said here, a strengthening of Article 138 which is not provisional, in the sense of always foreseeing, not only on this occasion, the possibility, of course, of a referendum confirming the laws of constitutional revision. It is a necessary change and not a contingent one since the electoral laws have now had and will have a majority-type curvature in the future. This is the most important aspect for me, because the Constitution belongs not to us, who are here pro tempore, but to the citizens, to the people, to whom the last and final word is due. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Campanella. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u43	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that I will be able to speak to the sentiments I am having; feelings that are conflicting and contradictory, I am telling you expressly, because I have appreciated many of the arguments that have been put forward, especially by senators who are not present in this House at the moment. I would like to thank Senator Nencini for a few points of his intelligent reflection and I would like to congratulate Senator Finocchiaro on what he said about the need to give rise to a debate that is at least clear, accessible to all, and above all not to specialists, but to citizens, because we are working on rules for the citizens of our State. From the stands they are attending this session of the children, who will become citizens shortly: it is for them that we are working. It seems to me, however, as usual, that, alongside these sentiments of approval, there must be others of disappointment, because then, when the debate comes on the subject, we are all distracted, we are all absent. I also want to thank Senator Tonini for mentioning the figure of Dossetti, a figure for me solar, which perhaps very few here remember for what he did and for what he said. Dossetti has left a moral heritage first of all, which very few may be able to appreciate, also because - and I say this with an open heart - I believe that the crisis that has hit our country is above all a moral crisis, even before it is political. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is useless to talk about changing this or that, if then first you are already figuring out how to derogate, how to violate, in practice how to take the law for the bottoms. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this Parliament too many times we have granted what could not and should not have been granted. I hope to be not the only one, because my heart would weep, but one of the many who love to read and love to read words of truth. In recent years I have taken pleasure in reading and sharing with friends - because this is the taste of sharing - the reflections that has long been making a philosopher, currently in Germany, called Roberta De Monticelli. A couple of years ago, he received broad approval from a certain left, because he resumed the title of a famous interview that Enrico Berlinguer granted to the Republic. The title of this pamphlet, which I have here with me, is "The moral question": precisely of this we should reason, because the rules refer first of all to an area that, before legal, is ethical, and here with ethics perhaps very few are familiar! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] First of all, I would like to appeal to those who have decided not to resolve, for example, the conflict of interest which a law dated 1957 reaffirmed with absolute firmness! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The fact is that we Italians, heirs of the Byzantine, when we want to find the words to take someone by the nose, we are very good: Manzoni taught us this. Amazing bugs lent themselves to the game: if there is someone who is powerful, justice somehow adjusts, I invite you to note also the game of words. I used to talk - I can say it quietly - with Piercamillo Davigo, a judge that I value so much and that I think should be another comet star for many. Davigo explained to me - as everyone knows - that in Italy it is enough to pay so much to have the prescription currently, and with the prescription there is no justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And if there is no justice - and I believe that this is a formidable vulnus to the spirit with which our constituent Fathers have elaborated at least the first 12 articles of the Constitution - that future we look forward to to our children, our children? We can do, in fact, semi-presidency or presidentialism, the "Porcellum" or the "Mattarellum," but we leave them simply a country full of debts, of which we are the cause, not us 5 Star Movement, but we as a generation, we as the ruling class that has led this country to the end. We have been commissioners: I would have expected, for example, from anyone, and above all from a government authority, of the firm and harsh words of condemnation against Mr. Mario Draghi when last March 7 he claimed that in Italy had already been put the autopilot. Wow, but doesn't sovereignty belong to the people? That, I think, is what our Constitution says in Article 1: but no, there is someone else who puts the autopilot in it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] First I heard about the transfer of sovereignty: it is true, we have given sovereignty, but first of all to whom? To transnational powers and great finance, which we cannot attack, because in words we are all ready to strike - through taxation - rent and finance, when it exceeds. I would also like to know when it exceeds and when it does not, why, in my opinion, finance - as one Aristotle wrote - too often exceeds. In fact, though, why do we not produce all these laws? I have heard - with astonishment, I must say - the President of my Commission, Mr Finocchiaro, say at the first sitting that we had to return central to Parliament. But who took it away from Parliament? [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] Perhaps the parliamentarians themselves, perhaps the "caste" - this is the sense of the reflection I want to make, in conclusion - that over decades has allowed this country, which could have had another present and another future, to ruin us (and I say it bitterly). 12:31 a.m. (Follow Morra). A certain Luigi Sturzo, already at the end of the 1940s - taking into account the indications of a German sociologist, Michels - had coined the term "partyocracy," which, to be honest, had already been used a few years earlier by others (if I remember correctly from Falcone Lucifer, right in the constituent Assembly). Well, did we not realize that this is a party system? Do we want to talk a little, for example, about parliamentary immunity? I think that all of us must think proudly - and I stress this, but perhaps not so many of us - of being representatives of the citizens. In fact, someone - like the Senator of the League who spoke earlier - said correctly: we are employees. And employees, out of a sense of responsibility, must take into account what they do, as well as what they say. And we do not agree with that, because transparency - and here I am perhaps also a trade unionist of those who open Parliament as cans of tuna - is too often out of these classrooms. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In conclusion, let us try to give justice and the right to happiness: in the first Constitutions, which someone mentioned here, we claimed the right for any human being to pursue his own happiness in full autonomy. To do this, our Constitution provided that it was the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles that could actually prevent everyone from giving the most and becoming what they could be. I come from school, as I hope many other colleagues, also from other political formations, although I know that unfortunately in the last ten years they are mainly lawyers to stay here: this is, in my opinion, one of the evils of our country. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] Coming from school, as I said, I remember all my former students who, having no important surnames, were forced to pack. It is your responsibility, remember it; as a certain Giorgio Ambrosoli wrote (and I must not remind you who was and who was killed): be aware of the duties that we must all have towards ourselves. And perhaps the first fundamental duty is to restore hope to young people. [[Live applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Quagliariello, it is now known to all of us - as the data of the last parliamentary elections show us - that with time the distrust of Italians in the parties, in Parliament, in the regional, provincial and municipal councils and in the judicial system has increased. It is a cross-cutting distrust, which crosses all segments of the population, all social classes and invests all areas of the country. The distrust of the citizens in politics, in the parties and in their representatives has grown more and more, so much so that they are referred to as representatives of a caste of untouchables. In this context, it is not surprising that political participation falls and continues to decline, because from Italians all, without distinction, some of us are seen as subjects that do not represent Italy, but as individuals who exploit politics for private purposes and far from the real needs of the population. The fault of this general feeling, of this general distrust in politics, is also partly ours, but to a large extent it was made up of some pseudo-journalists and journalists. The Italians, with the vote of February, materializing in the consent given to the protest movements and with strong abstentionism also in the recent local elections, gave us a strong signal: either we change some rules of the game or we continue to be overwhelmed by strong waves of anti-politics and abstentionism that are not good for the Italian institutions. Unfortunately, millions of Italians no longer feel represented by some parties; we must regain their trust and make them understand that we all, senators and deputies, work for the good of the whole country. A first step in this direction must be taken in the reform of institutional structures; only later and due to changes in the structures, will we move on to reform the current electoral law. To intervene only on the law of 21 December 2005, n. 270, would be a resounding error; we would only risk to overdo other damage to the current electoral norm which in fact showed at least three major defects. Firstly, it does not guarantee governance, despite the majority prizes, especially in the Chamber, higher than the famous Acerbo law: it is very likely, as happened in February, that different majorities are formed in the two branches of Parliament for the different method of allocation of seats to the Chamber and the Senate. It is unfair in the award of the majority prize to the House, since the party or coalition that has obtained one more vote than the opponents gets 55% of the seats: through the majority prize, the coalition led by Bersani achieved about 200 more MPs than it would have achieved if we had voted with a proportional system. Above all, however, the current electoral law increases the gap between the electorate and the electorate, favours abstentionism and has caused a break between citizens and parliamentarians. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to think calmly and without being influenced by opportunistic or flagship logics. The method of electing Parliament is extremely important, as it affects all the institutions of the Republic. With its legislative function, it is Parliament that determines, through ordinary laws, any changes to the Constitution, the structure and functioning of all other institutions. In the current institutional architecture, Parliament is the cornerstone of the Italian political and institutional life; lawmaking means taking a position on issues that affect people's lives and Parliament must, as far as possible, represent the opinion of voters on the issues it is debating. In Italy it becomes increasingly essential, in a general context, that the different components of civil society and the different convictions of citizens be well represented in Parliament. To date, three historical phases have followed in Italy from the point of view of electoral laws, which have never covered institutional structures. But what electoral law, among those proposed, also responds to the need to re-establish that trust between voters and elected people that has failed in this historical phase? For this question there is no single answer, to answer correctly we have to ask ourselves first what will be the institutional structure that the electoral law will have to support. I will support the constitutional reforms that will provide for the direct election of the President of the Republic and an electoral law that can easily combine wide representativeness and governability, which at the same time exalts the bond of the chosen with the territory that voted for it. Finally, I am sure that the new constitutional arrangements will have to include new and stronger institutions of direct democracy. The proposal, which my personal political experience suggests to me, is not already the reform of Article 67 of the Constitution, but it is the need to foresee in the next and reformed constitutional framework the inclusion of the institute of the retall, already planned for a century in the United States. With a large collection of signatures among voters, the Recall Institute allows early withdrawal of the immersive elect, as is the case in California, but also in 18 other EU states. After a predetermined period and after the election of a Member of Parliament, the retell plans to recall it if it has not acted correctly. According to Professor Ainis, the recall function is to use a tool of direct democracy to make representative democracy more authoritative. In the context of our constitutional structure, my proposal to set up the retell is certain that it will strengthen and support Article 67 of the Constitution, to which I am particularly and personally attached. As some supporters of direct democracy claim, Article 67 of the Constitution should not be amended by abolishing the ban on the mandatory mandate, formulated by Irish Burke on 3 November 1774 with the famous "Address to the electorate of Bristol" which, on the other hand, must be considered an indispensable conquest of liberal democracies. It is modernity, with its instruments, that will determine the distinction between representation of interests and political representation. It will be the institution of the retell, if the reform proposal finds the consensus I expect, which will allow voters and not a party leader to decide on a case-by-case basis the new discrimination. With regard to the motion we are debating today, there is my broad willingness to vote in favour so that the first steps can be taken towards genuine and real reform in the interests of the community and the country. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to ask for permission to attach the full text of the speech to the sitting reports. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u47	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u48	He is registered to speak Senator Corsini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u49	Mr President, I was very interested in a passage from Senator Morra's speech, such as the one in which he said that politics must commit itself to guaranteeing the right to happiness. I welcome this proposal, which has an illuministic origin, but I note a contradiction because, in my opinion, politics must instead commit itself to remedying the pain and suffering of the human condition, it must recognize its limits and oppose the aspirations of omnipotence, it must be basically mild, because it must eliminate the abuses of power. Having said that, I will speak with great circumspection, because I do not have a constitutional and legal culture, so I have committed myself to listening very carefully to my colleagues who have more competence in this matter than I do. There is no doubt that the moment demands courage, will of change, escape from the condition of shyness and fear, and that a supplement of mind and commitment to innovation is necessary: I think in a special way, as far as we are concerned, of overcoming the equal, perfect and symmetrical bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the inversion, in accordance with the spirit of the Constituents, of Article 49, and also the corrections relating to Title V of Part II of the Constitution, the need to overcome and overcome the constraints of the decree of urgency, the strengthening of the laws of popular initiative. These are the goals and the horizons that I believe can bind us together: any work of constitutional revision, in fact, requires in itself a commitment to overcoming the limits of the majority. And I also think we need some sort of pain. I do not want to mythize the time of the Constituent, a cross that intervenes invoking the "veni creator spiritus," but from this point of view I am distressed by the graciousness of a debate that has failed to fascinate the parliamentary bodies and the public opinion of the country. There is no doubt that, with respect to the starting point, they were introduced, also on the basis of a dialogue that was operating, unquestioned, significant and significant improvements compared to the intentions with which the speech took place. I would like to point out some reasons for satisfaction, satisfaction and, for me, reassurance: the overcoming of double disproportionality; the fact that the Committee acts as a reference and non-drafting body (which is extremely important because it guarantees the primacy and autonomy of the Parliamentary Assembly); the emphasis on amending the texts; the fact that the Committee is entirely composed of Members (which is absolutely not negligible). Moreover, knowing the personal, cultural and intellectual sensitivity of the Minister, I hope that among the experts we do not limit ourselves to a summons of experts - what can I say? - the confidence of individual parties. There is an evangelical passage that I believe should give soul to the inspiration of these choices; it is written: "Oportet et haereses esse", it is necessary that there are also discordant voices, that there is the possibility of an open, stimulating and serene dialogue. So, too, it is very significant, in the text that has been presented to us, to call for consultation of citizens and to strengthen Article 138 as regards the possibility - indeed the duty - of putting in place referendums confirming beyond the textual dictation of Article 138. Having said that, I will say very quietly and quietly the personal doubts that have remained to me. The first, basically, is the following: when we are preparing for a constitutional revision of this scale (in the text of the majority motion, Titles I, II, III and V are evoked, therefore a very important part of the constitutional dictation) I think we should start from a great debate that did not go through the debate with which we measured ourselves in the recent electoral situation. If I wanted to extradite and outsource in a paradoxical way my conviction I would say that there is no explicit mandate on the part of the electorate. This is the first question on the basis of which I want to question my personal conscience. Then there are two other critical elements that I would like to stress. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Corsini, you have to finish. Mr Corsini (PD). Yes, Mr President, I shall conclude. They concern the derogation from Article 138 and the taking of special proceedings. In this respect, I would like to have assurances regarding the maintenance of the four passages provided for in the constitutional rule. The last remark, the last doubt:...... thelaws...... It is not a subtlety the result of a sort of professoria. If we say "the law" instead of "the laws" it means that we do not emphasize the distinction of subjects and do not solve the problem of the constitution of possible variables and, indeed, majorities, with the risk that the referendum will eventually come under the spoils of a sort of plebiscite. Finally, I come to the most radical objection (be patient still twenty seconds), Mr President. I am referring to the risk, which has already been mentioned by a colleague, of a sort of informal constitutionalisation of the Porcellum, that is: either the Constitution is changed or the Porcellum remains, which was actually the unsolved dynamic of the debate in this House - then I was in the House - in the last part of the last parliamentary term. I mean, out of all infancy, that the test stand at which two stone conviviates sit is not solved: the safeguard clause and the conflict of interest law. Having said that, since the debate, by its very nature, is committed to listening, to conviction and to mutual persuasion, I shall regulate my vote on the basis of the answers that the Minister and the President-in-Office of the Council would like to give. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Della Vedova. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u51	Mr President, Minister, I believe that anyone who has followed, more or less closely but carefully, the various attempts to redesign the institutional and constitutional structure that over the last twenty years (maybe we should say thirty) have followed today can only face this - alas - yet another debate on how to arrive, in method and in substance, at a redesign of the Italian institutions with the necessary scepticism. I find myself in Mr Maran's speech today, including the points of merit. We who have given and give confidence to this Government have shared the words of the President of the Council Enrico Letta where he linked the duration of the Government to the definition of institutional reforms. That is, the duration of the government must be functional to allow an institutional redesign project. Some of us, reading the motion that we are about to vote on anyway, have seen the danger, in reality, that this project to redesign the institutions, as it is conceived, can pursue the opposite objective, that is to design an institutional redesign to allow the duration of the government, whatever the outcome of the institutional reforms. And since we do not think that even for the Governments of the Italian Republic it is better to draw to life instead of throwing the leather, regardless of what is done, in this we have identified a risk that we want to explain without infigurations immediately. The reform dossier is the one on which, despite the promises, the most serious delays have accumulated over the last two decades: delays that have had consequences not only on the institutional level. Self-referentiality is a luxury that we can no longer afford. Policy reforms, both institutional and not only, do not only concern politics or politicians, such as those of public administration, but do not only concern public administration itself or public employees. The effects of inefficiencies (such as those of corruption and clientelism) have a social and economic cost that can be measured and from which it is impossible to ignore when assessing the performance of institutions. The institutional modernization today in Italy is a chapter and a premise of the civil modernization of which the country, which is in a serious economic crisis, needs to face the problems that we face, because the crisis depends not only, but much, also on the choices and not choices produced by the institutions in recent decades ( definitely not in the last few months). Wrong or delayed political decisions do not, of course, have, in a complex and articulated society, as the only responsible political forces. But an efficient democracy that highlights in a clearer way powers and responsibilities, even by shortening the time of decisions, is increasingly the basis necessary to govern a country like ours to avoid its decline and strengthen its role in Europe, a role that has often remained below what history, demographic and economic dimensions would have required and allowed, also because of the institutional fragility experienced in recent decades, where the role of European decisions grew. If we decide in Europe also in the best interest of Italy, including economic and fiscal policies, it will not be for the benevolence of the partners, but it will be because, also through a recovery of efficiency of the institutions, we will be able to make a contribution of authority and authority in Europe. We must reflect on the fact that using the public budget to gain consensus has been a vice whose practice has been facilitated by a redundant decision-making system characterized by the continuous balling and splitting of responsibilities. If we have a public debt, which is a large part of the problem we have in Italy today, fueled over the decades not by investments, gradually reduced, but by transfers that are often inefficient, this also depends on the degenerations of the current structure of our parliamentary democracy. As many studies show (I think, in Italy, of the analyses carried out, among others, by Guido Tabellini), the institutional relationship between Government and Parliament is one of the non-negligible determinants in the levels and quality of public spending of the various countries. I would never say that the Italian decline depends tout court on its institutions, but I think that today there are institutional reasons in the Italian decline. In front of us there are two risks and an opportunity: the risks are those of conformist conservatism which, particularly in constitutional matters, has always been the main obstacle to particularistic reforms and opportunism which, in particular on electoral matters, could once again persuade the legislator here and now to cut out a reform to measure. That is why I think it is good not to have included the issue of electoral law (and we have asked for that), I believe that a minimal reform of the so-called "Porcellum" would risk being a mine under the institutional path, because it could be a strong incentive to blow the bench to return to elections with an electoral law of pure convenience for political forces. I think we also saw traces of the risk of conservatism in 2006 when a constitutional reform, which I had not voted for (I was not in Parliament), which was probably badly written, which was badly done with a little arrogance in the method, but which faced and resolved some of the decisive issues, was thrown away rather than being held to be corrected later on. I said about the risk on the electoral law. If these are the risks, the opportunity comes, on the contrary, from the contingency in which we find ourselves, from the fact that the institutional stalemate that marked the beginning of this parliamentary term and imposed the formation of a majority of wide-ranging agreements makes everyone equally responsible for the results of this reform process and no one completely masters the parliamentary balances. Italy has known the associative democracy and the belligerent democracy, always on a strictly parliamentary basis. To come to the head of the crisis you have to look at more classic and consolidated models, even taking a look beyond the border. No one says (there would be nothing else) to replicate Sic et simpliciter models from other countries, but I believe that it would be useful also a competitive evaluation of the efficiency of the institutions, in particular of the European countries: my colleague Maran referred to the French institutional model, and I also think that that should be a model to confront and to which, perhaps quickly, in non-biblical times, to refer in the iter that we are starting today. Anomalous, exceptional and peculiarly Italian solutions have not made the fortune of our country in recent decades, nor the good of its institutions. I want to address two final considerations. The first concerns the referendum. If I understand correctly, it is said in this motion that, in addition to the current provisions of Article 138, it will be possible to call the referendum even if the majority is two thirds. I believe that it would be a mistake for those who, like us, want us to reach the definition of a new institutional and constitutional framework as far as possible. At that point, if that is the choice, it is immediately said that it will be we who voted on this new Constitution that would be desirable to ask for a referendum and not to suffer it. I think it would be a serious error of perspective, so if you want to predict the referendum, it is expected at this point that it will still be there. I will conclude with a comment on the timing, imagining that Mrs Lanzillotta and Mr Susta will also return to this point. There is a risk, in the definition of this method, that the time to lengthen is simply longer. There is a risk, if there is not a really strong political will to start from the very beginning a constitutional process to Article 138 in force, that what we are planning today will only serve to take time. It is a risk that we are aware of, of which we want to be warned not only the Senate Chamber and the House Chamber, but also the public opinion, because it is a risk that must be looked at. We cannot - we have all said this and I repeat this - allow ourselves to fail, and not in our own interests, as a political and parliamentary class, but in the interests of the country. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u53	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will now make a very brief political point. In my view, even in the light of my not very short parliamentary experience, I believe that the conditions are being determined on this occasion for constitutional reform to finally take place. I will not list the elements that lead me to this consideration, but I have confidence - and above all I have confidence in the conduct of this initiative - that this time the reform will take place. The second point, however, arises from a question, Minister. To whom should the benefits of this reform be addressed? I believe the citizens, in the first line. We do not look at our interests as parliamentarians or at our interests, as someone would say (even if the term as interpreted absolutely does not appeal to me) of "caste." Let us look at the interests of the citizens. What do citizens expect from constitutional reform in relation to their current situation? I believe, especially during this period, that they are expecting, first of all, a reduction in the cost of public machinery on the citizens' pockets. And how to get there? Currently the Italian citizen to maintain the public apparatus spends about twice as much as a German citizen. Why? Because the cost centers of the public machine present in our country are, relative to the population, far superior; moreover, they are not only higher in the number, but also less efficient in the quality, especially in the quality of the services rendered. I am inspired by an absence known in the majority motion: the absence of an analysis of the merits of the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, which is only mentioned. But while we are talking about some merits of the changes to be made to the other chapters of the Constitution, Title V is barely mentioned, and the device ignores it completely. We are talking about Part II of the Constitution, the form of state, the form of government, the bicameral structure of Parliament; we are also talking about electoral systems (I am not fond of electoral systems, because the consensus of citizens is channeled towards those who deserve it and we are accustomed to earning it on the ground, beyond the electoral systems that are often modified to optimize the low result and certainly not to consolidate the high result). I therefore believe that the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution must find its most reasoned and revolutionary part in the positive sense of the term. We have an apparatus of levels of government that has become untenable precisely for the pockets of the citizens. Someone before me referred to the experience of the Municipalities, saying that the Municipalities are the nerve of the apparatus of government of the territory. It is true, but if the experience of the Municipalities to which we refer is the classic, medieval, Tuscan-Emilian one, to which we are accustomed, it is an experience not of Walled Municipality but of Common territory. Therefore, the amalgamation of the 8,200 municipalities that we currently have on national territory becomes indispensable also to better interpret the concept of a vast and homogeneous area that was the basis of the old Provinces, which we rightly want to suppress, but which we must replace with a more modern and dynamic model of response to the citizens. We cannot think that services will improve in efficiency unless the so-called scale is widened from the point of view of the size, therefore of the number of users, citizens, rationality, intervention of services on the territory through territorial homogeneity. In relation to this we must also have the courage to examine a regional structure that is no longer acceptable as a weight and center of waste and cost of our country: twenty regions have become a luxury, indeed, a legacy, no longer a luxury, because I do not consider them a positive thing, of a centralist decentralization system imagined in the post-unitary era that has also been dragged through the Republican Constitution, but that today, in a perspective of rationalization of the efficiency of our territories, must absolutely be revised. I don't want to give specific examples because I might bump into someone's susceptibility, but we can no longer keep up Regions that alone are as much as part of a big city and have a President, a "Parliament," a bureaucratic apparatus, autonomous laws that naturally regulate a part of the life of citizens. Title V of the Constitution must not be reviewed only in the light of the redistribution of competences - and this must also be done - and of the clarity on the division of competences between the levels of government, but must be addressed in the interest of citizens on the reduction of cost centres, on the absolute decrease of the points of reference of the citizen on the territory. If we want to eliminate the Provinces (because the weak link of the institutional structure has been attacked, let us be clear; among other things, the weak link is that of the lowest cost: the numbers of the budgets of the State are very clear, it is precisely an infinitesimal cost compared to what the Regions and the Municipalities spend on our territory), if we want to review the structure of the government of the territory, we must examine all these possibilities. I therefore hope, Minister, that this will be in the Committee's work. I repeat, I am not so fond of the revolutions that pertain to the electoral laws and to the forms of State and Government, which are important and necessary in a process of modernization of the country, but I am very fond of the interest of the citizens, the interest that citizens pay as much as in other regions and in other nations of Europe for the essential services that are provided to them, which pay less because we manage to rationalise the system of the presence of the government and the public machine in the territory, that we do not make ourselves influenced by the needs of the parties of the "caste" to have regional councillors, provincial councillors, local councillors, mayors, but that these positions are drastically reduced in the interest - I repeat - of a rationalization of the public machine on the territory. I hope this will be done, and that is why I have asked for action. I see a lot of shyness on this subject. I hope it is a shyness that hides instead a determination that at this moment may not be good for the light but will be evident when you send us the text that you can examine for its definitive approval. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senators Cociancich and Ferrara Mario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u54	Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u55	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat the arguments that have already been put forward by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, which considered it appropriate to highlight its certainties, but also its fears and the questions that so many of us are asking ourselves, on which they would like certain answers: they seek answers within the Group and themselves. I will not go back to that point, but I would like to go straight to the subject of the problems in a completely alternative way in order to try to give myself some possible answers to questions that snake between us. In the meantime, I would like to thank the Minister for listening, but without formalities, because it must not have been easy for him either to go from the stage of the report of the Committee of Wise Men, to whose drafting he has collaborated, therefore from believing, like so many of us, in the Convention, to the phase of formation of the Government, in which it was the same President Letta in the Chamber to speak of the Convention, to the next phase of questioning the Convention itself. It seems light years ago, when less than two months have actually passed since the work of the essays and less than a month from trusting the Led Government. Listening has produced a proposal which, in the process of reform, places a great responsibility on Parliament. Someone just spoke of a stalemate. It seems that light years have also passed since the stalemate that we have experienced as an Italian Parliament. We have had to take note of the obvious difficulties and dysfunctions of an electoral law that does not appeal to the Italian people, but which has demonstrated all its limitations even after the results. We had to take note of our difficulties and inability. We also had to take note of a hard message from the President of the Republic, who not only invited us to finally inaugurate the institutional reform season (one of the pillars on which this Government was born), but also to revise the electoral law, in an attempt to restore a relationship with the citizens. Well, today is a time when you, Minister, demonstrate listening ability, and when we assume a great responsibility. In fact, there is no doubt that going back partially, in the sense of providing for an extraordinary procedure, but much closer to Article 138 of the Constitution, is an act of Parliament's responsibility and a responsibility that this Parliament assumes, because the debate will be less contained. But we must all bear in mind that there is a need for reforms (someone said that this is the last opportunity), otherwise the country would not understand us. One of the answers that I wanted to try to give myself (I do not presume to give anyone else, for the truth), was on Article 138 of the Constitution, which in this period is very invoked, even outside Parliament, by those same teachers and constitutional judges who created a doctrine and gave it a reading that has allowed in Italy in recent years, every time you have tried to inaugurate a reform season (we want this to be the last opportunity, so we have to do it), three Bicamerals, one after the other, and also some reforms according to the procedures provided for in the same Article 138. Well, in all these years the principle that has passed is that Article 138 concerns individual acts of revision of the Constitution, because it was clear to everyone, especially when we went to vote, for example, a Bicameral, when we were preparing for a reform package, not a single rule or revision of a single point, that it is not the same thing as an Article 138 born and included in the Constitution for punctual revisions of constitutional norms and a reform package that reorganizes constitutional issues but is not just a simple revision. Today it seems to me that the point of mediation has been reached by providing for a reinforced Article 138 - an extraordinary procedure that fully embraces the spirit of Article 138 and the majorities of Article 138 and that moves from this article only to make possible the reform - and focusing essentially on a Joint Committee which allows the House and the Senate, even before the speech to the House, in what was to be the seat of the Commissions, to do joint work and then on a referendum, which should have been mandatory and which today, much more cautiously, our motion indicates as optional. Therefore, we are faced with a great responsibility, because the time we have given ourselves, the eighteen months that the Letta Government has given itself, may not be enough. The time is short and, since the end of the time at my disposal is nearing, I just want to reflect on the electoral law to say, here and clearly, that there is little in this motion because we have not found the solution. Moreover, there are still no solutions to the substantive issues, it is only a procedural problem, and that is already a lot. On the electoral law I would like to say that the President of the Republic must not always and only invoke him on what we like. It was President Letta who spoke here about the need to eliminate the "Porcellum," it was the President of the Republic, in the same speech to the Chambers gathered, who encouraged the parties to renew a pact with the citizens through an electoral law that cannot be the one with which we voted. From this point of view, the road is still to be built, but this too today becomes essentially Parliament's responsibility. The government has somehow gone away from this argument because it will deal with the law as a regime, but we have the responsibility to demonstrate to the Italian population, to the citizens all that we will not return to vote with that law and that we will work, without waiting any longer, without waiting even for proposals from the government, to review the electoral law, which I believe will not be possible minimalist solutions but we will have to think of something more serious, starting from the return to the "Mattarellum," or any solution that you look at the problem and deal with it in substance. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u57	Mr President, I would like to make a contribution, partly because I am about to present an agenda and therefore I will briefly present it. I start from afar, I start from the last book I read, "The planet of the gods of Zecharia Sitchin, who speaks of the Sumerians, who represent the first civilization of antiquity, in 3,000 B.C., therefore 5,000 years ago. The Sumerians of Erek had a king, who wanted to wage war with the nearby city-state of Kish, and had to seek permission by consulting the Elders' Assembly, who advised him not to do so and imposed a peaceful agreement on him. Then the king turned to the second Assembly, that of the Young Fighters, who instead gave him permission. Well, the war could not move it, because that was the first example of perfect bicameralism and the two branches, the Elders and the Fighters, had to agree, to authorize the king, and then peace was concluded. The constituent Fathers, 5,000 years later, in the preparatory acts of our Constitution (the articles are of a few lines, but the preparatory acts are of thousands of pages, a bit like for the poem of Ungaretti "M'illumino d'immenso", which is a staff but the comments are of hundreds of pages) what have they told us? They told us that we need to pay close attention when we allow, build and achieve a democracy, because then the transition to dictatorship is short. And when the question remains or is spread among us whether democracy is a cost, it means that we are moving towards dictatorship, that we do not love democracy as our constituent Fathers did. I want to return to 1982, to the first Conference in Rimini (31 March-4 April) of the Socialists, where the watchwords were "Governing change" and in whose acts there is everything that is being said here, about institutional reforms and allowing the economic system to run faster and better, so much so that the same daily newspaper "La Repubblica" with Giuseppe Turani, caught more than any other historical novelty than thirty years ago. But for thirty years we have been shortsighted, and finally we have reached this important day, when the lines for constitutional reform are given and approved. What does the agenda I intend to present say? He says that we must have a little more courage: why limit ourselves to Titles I, II, III and V of Part II of the Constitution? Senator D'Ali is right when he says that the reform of Title V was approved with only four votes by majority. A reform that has led health to be no longer national but regional. We have 21 different systems: if you go from Valle d'Aosta to Sicily you run through different health systems. The citizen, on the other hand, needs uniformity. A mistake has been made and it has to be corrected: it was done by a majority of that Parliament in 2001 and now we have to find a sharing, so have more courage on Title V. Then, why not talk about Title IV? Why not modify a Title that is important to modify? The planet justice is sick; I am a doctor and I always say in the Commission that there is a need for a doctor to treat justice in Italy, where there are over 5 million pending trials. 43 percent of those imprisoned are awaiting judgment, and 50 percent of them are said to be innocent. We must make a Constitution for citizens, because it is the citizens who are in prison, and then they may be judged innocent. Think of a doctor: if it turns out that 50 percent of kidney removal was useless because the kidney was healthy, and therefore should not be removed, the doctor who operated on them is kicked out of the profession. So, why not put your hands on Title IV too? Are judges citizens different from others? Why is their productivity not calculated? Why do they have two months off? Why don't they have periodic psycho-aptitudinal visits? Because if they're wrong, they don't pay and they don't get pushed away? Why do salaries, while for all the other citizens are blocked, continue to rise for them? The Constitutional Court itself said that they could not touch each other with the spending review. Are they different citizens? Hence the agenda that I will present to restore balance between all the powers of the State: we must have the courage to modify all five of these Titles of the Constitution. I exclude VI because in fact the Constitutional Court must remain super partes and is well-extrinsed in our Constitution. The other Titles must be reformed all to seek the right balance. In conclusion, I believe that both the Presidents of the Justice Commissions, the Senate and the House must be present in the bicameral Commission, because the powers need to be balanced: the Presidents of these two Commissions must be part of this body, otherwise it is not the power of the State and Parliament. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u58	Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u59	Dear colleagues, Mr President, Minister, the word'reform' is one of the most recurrent words we have heard since the beginning of the so-called Second Republic. Under the name of reform we have seen all kinds of nefariousness, so much so that in every sector, hearing about reforms, the chills come to the citizens involved. Now we are talking about reforming the state, the form of government and state: at this point, all citizens shudder. They shudder at the idea that to put hand to our Constitution, which can be considered among the most beautiful in the world, at least in the first part, is an elected Parliament with an electoral law that presents profiles of unconstitutionality; a Parliament that within it has not yet managed to resolve conflicts of interest, incompatibility and incandidability; a Parliament in which there are people who, although candidates, have very little candidate. This Parliament is preparing to carry out a reform of its own epoch. At least that is what we thought, and instead, from the beginning, we should have understood that this was not the case: from the appointment of a Minister for Constitutional Reforms, already mentioned in the speech of my colleagues. Take good care, not a Minister for Reforms simply, as has been the case in recent years, but constitutional reforms, thus giving the Government, rather than Parliament, that propulsive reform action: an absolute novelty. Today we are also facing a strange path; a path that we find difficult to understand and that I would like to explain well, so that even citizens who may listen or read the text can understand. In essence, we will undertake a path to change the Constitution and to speed up the process of amendment: that is, we will take about six months to approve in the two branches of Parliament (with a stop of three months in the middle to make the double passage) an amendment procedure (sorry the turn of words). At the end of these six months or so, we will finally be able to begin the reform process, which will be shorter, in the sense that, between the approval first in one branch and then in the other branch of Parliament, instead of three months will pass two months. In essence, we intervene on the Constitution to change the rules to amend it: that is what we are dealing with today. A process of months is under way which will lead to the implementation of a constitutional reform in order to provide for a somewhat shorter time frame for subsequent reforms. The question that arises spontaneously is: why not use this initial time to directly promote the necessary changes? It is a tacit admission that it does not have clear ideas and that it has neither the will nor the ability to initiate that process of renewal of the State and the Government that everyone wanted, just to make time take (because we know so much about a time taken). Turning now to detailing the proposed changes to the path to change the Constitution, we are talking, first of all, about the establishment of a Committee, a new Bicameral composed of 20 senators and 20 MPs, appointed from among the members of the Committees on Constitutional Affairs of the two Chambers. It is a proposal that we have read in more motions. It is also expected that the draft laws will be examined in the referent, which, to say the same motions, will allow to reduce and optimize the time of examination of the proposals for amendments in the two branches of Parliament, forgetting that the Constitutional Affairs Committees of the House and Senate have already demonstrated power and know how to work together, regardless of whether this method of joint collaboration is envisaged in the Constitution. Basically: we avoid a new Bicameral, which could lead to the failures already seen; the two Commissions could already work together. Institutionalizing with a complex constitutional reform what can already be done seems to us to be forcing. The majority motion also provides, in particular, in point (c), for the introduction in the framework of this reform of the arrangements for examination at the Assemblies to be carried out quickly and without delay, including a limit of 18 months. These are issues which, in our view, could already be resolved tomorrow, with simple regulatory changes in the two branches of Parliament, without having to disturb a constitutional reform in order to speed up procedures. The only noteworthy novelty, present in the majority motions, is what is foreseen at the last point, point (d), that is to say the possibility to request a confirmation referendum anyway, regardless of the achievement of the deliberative quorum provided for by the Constitution in the two branches of Parliament (i.e. two thirds of the members). It had to be an obligation; it has now become a faculty, but it is already a step forward. The point that somewhat disturbs us, however, is the general forecast - always within the framework of the commitment to the constitutional revision bill - that the examination at the Assemblies should take place according to agreements reached between the two Presidents of the Chamber and Senate. This is a general commitment - already provided for in the Regulations and which therefore seems a little excessive to us to make explicit provision - that we hope will not open the way to strange proposals, such as the joint approval of the final text at a joint session of the Chamber and Senate, a hypothesis already ventilated in the weeks preceding this debate. We hope, I repeat, that it will not open up to this eventuality. Our motion envisages the use of the next six months, rather than a long technical process of modifying the ways to change (because this is what we are going to do: changing the ways to amend the Constitution), in a real popular consultation of direction. We give citizens the opportunity to decide the forms of state and government that this country must adopt: a popular consultation, at the end of an information path involving two subjects. The parliamentary groups, first of all, who are the protagonists of the debate in this House, should essentially turn the parliamentary debate outside, using the media and, therefore, opening the debate to the citizens, institutionalising and protecting it in the forms of impartiality, transparency, equal access and participation. It would therefore be a matter of using the media - and the public service in particular - to provide serious information and training. The centres of culture, schools of every order and grade, libraries, associations and local authorities would also be involved, which could start training courses, also using experts, on the issues of the form of the State and the form of Government. The public consultation, which is distinct from the various subjects (state form, form of government and - why not? - electoral law), should be based on questions which at the end of this public debate can be formulated by the parliamentary groups themselves, precisely by means of a translation of the debate from parliamentarians to the public, or by a committee of guarantors. In short, in some ways these questions should ask citizens to express themselves on the proposals for state and government reform, but also providing for the zero option, which is not to be forgotten, namely the permanence of the status quo. Although we are talking about reforms here, we do not know if the majority of citizens want them: perhaps not, perhaps they would prefer us to spend our time doing something else. The novelty that we would also like to introduce is the lowering of age to 16 for access to this popular consultation of extraordinary address. In fact, any kind of state reform we are going to approve will have its effect in the coming years, not before a two-year period from now. We therefore believe that, properly trained and informed, it will be the young people who will be voting for the first time in a few years' time who will suffer or benefit from this reform. These young people must also be involved in the reform process. Finally, according to our motion, the whole process of reform must take place within the institutions already provided for in Articles 72 and 138 of the Constitution, censoring from now on all forms of amendment of the Constitution itself to simplify the process, as it could be a dangerous road. This is about the motion. With regard to the electoral law, we have presented the agenda G2. It is clear that, as other Members have already said, we need a safeguard clause, an immediate amendment, in order to avoid voting with the Porcellum. It is well known that the quality of the electoral law called "Porcellum" does not need comments; we do not yet know if it is defined in this way because it is a clever one or because it is a bad law. In the debate, the proposal for the renewal of the Mattarellum was introduced. We want to subtract ourselves from the debate on the goodness of one or the other, because we know that it is usually based on mere calculations of electoral convenience, and that is not what the country needs today. The current electoral law presents aspects of probable unconstitutionality and criticality to all known; therefore we believe that, while waiting for a new electoral law that does not respond to contingent calculations, we can proceed to a revision of the current one, that resolves at least the criticalities and profiles of unconstitutionality already highlighted. We propose, for example, the introduction of preference, which does not involve any substantial change, and the uniformity of the method of calculating the majority prize between the House and the Senate. This is in fact one of the profiles that, with the current law, make it difficult to govern. We also propose the introduction of a significant minimum threshold for access to the majority prize and, finally, the uniformity of the conditions of access to the distribution of seats between lists and coalitions, in order to prevent instrumental coalitions from taking place in order to gain access to a distribution of seats with minimum percentage increases, thus trying to concentrate more on the individual political forces the presence in electoral consultations. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u60	Senator Crimes, obviously not here, but at the side, if you will, you can confer with me on the etymological genesis of the "Porcellum" and its provisions. Senator De Monte is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u61	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, institutional reform is an issue that is at the heart of the institutions and that can no longer wait for the times of politics, but must pursue those of the country. There are two areas of reform we want and we need to take action on: the reform of the electoral law and the wider reform of institutional reforms. Election reform is a priority of the Democratic Party, and should be a priority for all other political forces. Last Sunday's local elections sent a clear message to all of us: the citizens no longer have the eternal postponements, the polemics for themselves, the dramatic lack of results. In the progressive and increasingly evident distance between the political class and citizens, this electoral law has played and still plays an important role. The position of the PD is clear; we approve in the shortest possible time a reform of the voting system that guarantees public opinion: even in the unfortunate case of early elections, we will not vote with the "Porcellum" or with some of its derivatives. The fastest route is the one indicated by President Finocchiaro and other fellow senators such as Di Giorgi, Marcucci, Ginetti and Esposito: return to the "Mattarellum." This position is certainly not taken to make it more difficult or even to facilitate a traumatic end to the legislature. The exact opposite: this safeguard clause aims to facilitate an easier relationship between the Government and the political forces all with public opinion. This is a pact of honour between the parties and the citizens: never again "Porcellum." It is not possible to think of a reform in itinerant or a minimal correction of the current electoral law: what we must guarantee to voters is a "safety net." Here, this is the spirit of the reforms that we want to follow to give a response to the country, an immediate message to the Italians. The Mattarellum is not our final proposal, or at least it is not mine. There will be time, with the start of the process of reforms, to discuss what is the electoral system that can guarantee the country better. Governance must be our compass and the goal we must pursue. Minister, you reminded the Joint Constitutional Affairs Commissions that immediate and targeted action is needed on the current electoral law in order to eliminate its most obvious defects, which have been repeatedly pointed out by the Constitutional Court and the President of the Republic itself. Moreover, the attention also placed by the Constitutional Court makes the issue no longer repostable. It would in no way be desirable for the decision to continue the legislature to result not from the continuation of the agreement that supports the current Government, but from the impossibility of holding new elections due to the inadequacy of the voting system. The amendment of the electoral law must then be at the top of the reform agenda. Reforms that can no longer be postponed, as the Head of State himself pointed out before the whole Parliament at the time of its establishment: we can no longer, in any field, escape the duty of the proposal, the search for a viable solution, the clear and timely decision for the reforms that need to be continued in order to survive and progress democracy and Italian society. Turning to institutional reforms, twelve years after the reform of Title V of the Constitution, regional representatives were not allowed to enter Parliament, with the integration of the bicameral Parliamentary Committee for regional issues with representatives of the Regions and all local authorities, leaving the provision of Article 11 of Constitutional Law No 3 of 2001. The procedures and the single seat for Parliament's direct and permanent participation in the decisions of the European Union have not yet been built, to be implemented in line with the new Community law launched by the Monti Government, Law No 234 of 2012. Only in this way could we finally overcome the perfect bicameralism and give full meaning to a Senate conceived as the Chamber of Regions, within the framework of the wider (and still unimplemented) reform of Title I of Part II of the Constitution, and the interinstitutional dialogue with the policies of the European Union could be fully implemented. The theme of institutional reforms therefore needs to start its path: a not short, not easy but necessary path. In this context, it is urgent to give substance to the intervention of constitutional reform, announced by Minister Delrio, on the issue of the abolition of the Provinces. The last legislature saw the shipwreck of the reorganization mechanism pursued by the Monti Executive, which had, however, created unequal treatment between territories and a uneven relocation of services. It is therefore necessary to proceed swiftly towards the complete abolition of the Provinces, with a rewriting of the tasks and functions assigned to Municipalities and Regions, in full respect of the division of competences between territorial authorities that Article 117 of the Constitution establishes and of the new "external" power of the Regions in relation to the European Union. I shall conclude, Mr President. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, listening to Mr Quagliariello's hearing, the joint solution was to set up an equal Committee for institutional reforms, composed of 20 Members and 20 Senators, which in the spirit of interparliamentary dialogue between the Chambers is able to overcome technical difficulties and political objections and finally produce the desired result. The result will be that of governability, as has been said, in terms of electoral law and institutional reforms, reforms that can only be initiated in the full wake of our Constitution and parliamentary regulations. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u62	She is registered to speak Senator Mussolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u63	Mr President, the two minutes allowed for my speech were given to me by a colleague, whom I thank. I would also like to thank the Minister for the attention with which he is following this debate, in which I would like to introduce the reference to an article in the Constitution which is very dear to me and which we amended in 2003; I refer to Article 51, which reads: "All citizens of one or the other sex shall have access to public offices and elective offices in equal conditions (...). To this end, the Republic shall promote equal opportunities between women and men by means of appropriate measures. In the important topics tracked this morning there was no focus on this topic. I do not want to go into the subject of the various electoral laws and institutional reforms. However, I call on everyone, and especially the Minister, to assess the impact that both institutional reforms and a new electoral law on gender equality can have. This is a very important aspect. I have participated in all the elections with the various electoral laws and it is true, as my colleague Mr Gasparri recalled, that there are pros and cons. However, I would like to remind you that there has never been such a strong presence of young people and women in Parliament as with the infamous Porcellum. I remember the atrocious debates we had with our colleagues when under previous electoral laws we were only a miserable six, seven, eight percent, while we wanted to reach the famous European quota of 36%, which has now been largely exceeded. In any case, "bicamerolona" or "bicameralina" that is, I do not care and, although I made a joke when I noted that there was not even a woman in the Committee of Wise Men (inconceivable that there were no wise women within that assembly: perhaps because wise women are out), I appeal anyway for an assessment of the gender impact that will be determined in the course of constitutional reforms and for there to be an important reference within your elaborations - of this we must talk, because there is not only Article 138 of the Constitution - to Article 51 of the Constitution. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u64	He is enlisted to speak Senator Mastrangeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in this debate on constitutional reforms I would like to use the time available to me to make a strong request for greater consideration of the form of democracy that I think is absolutely the highest possible: direct democracy. Our beautiful Constitution already provides for instruments of direct democracy, but unfortunately, especially in recent decades, they have been snubbed and often boycotted by many Italian politicians. With the huge turnout in the last referendum in 2011, Italians and Italians have clearly asked us for more direct democracy; they asked us for it in 2007, during the first V-Day, collecting 336,000 signatures in favour of a popular initiative bill called "Clean Parliament"; they asked us for it in 2008 during the second V-Day, collecting a million and 300,000 signatures for three proposals for repealing referendums; they asked us for it in December last, actively participating in the primary elections of the 5 Star Parliamentary candidates and those of the Democratic Party: they asked us for it a month ago by actively participating in the primary elections of the Italian candidate President held on the website of the 5 Star Movement. Precisely by learning from these online elections, I ask you to take into account this new technological tool - telematics - which will in future maximise and implement every legislative instrument of direct democracy. In essence, citizens and citizens are calling for more direct democracy. Therefore, according to the explicit mandate I have received from my constituents and from my electricians, I will support and vote in favour of any legislative action that gives greater and new means of democracy directed to the citizens and citizens of our beautiful Italy. Thank you, and good democracy directed to everyone! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u66	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u67	Mr President, Minister, I believe that on the connections and distinctions between constitutional policy and the electoral mechanism, the smartest things have told you this morning a colleague who has always appreciated and listened very carefully. Senator Chiti warned us about three quarters of an hour ago on one point: he told us to be careful not to focus the dispute on a "temporary" amendment of the electoral law, because this would make the path started this morning extremely temporary. Hence, Senator Chiti is right: focusing on an immediate restoration of the so-called "Mattarellum " and on a contemporary cancellation of the " Porcellum " is a false departure. I know very well that this thesis met with some sympathy. Yesterday, not without Jacobinism, on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) the former colleague Professor Passigli was patronizing her, but I have the impression that her arguments were only politology. And politology is politics as gastronomy is to the kitchen or - if you want - how eroticism is to love. It applies to Passigli and is worth, with even greater respect, to Professor Sartori, his teacher, from whom I have felt repeatedly divided not out of lack of love for politology, but out of too much love for politics. So it is clear that no fuss about the electoral mechanism can solve the political problems - said a colleague from the PD - of governability. I could say yes, today, to governability, but you must recognize that when the Constitutional Court was drawn up and approved - here is the transition from 75 to 40 - for very good reasons the concern could not be governability: it was above all representativeness. And luckily that was the case, otherwise my colleague, Mr Finocchiaro, could not have said this morning that she loved our Constitution. And I can't help but adjust and tell her that I love her, too. There are no technical questions against awareness of the inadequacy of electoral politology - attributed to surgery or engineering - in the absence of a reasonable redefinition of political relations. Mr Minister, you were not yet a professor while I was already a professor. Our friendship was never broken when, between the end of the 1980s and the beginning of the 1990s, its "mariosignism," its "marcopannellism," or perhaps both together, led it to cheer for that circuit that seemed toxic to me: the Constitutional Court as a moment and instrument of co-regulation. The observations of the Supreme Court on the law in force, the denunciation of the fact that the majority prize, if the alliance fails, would empty Parliament, the President of the Republic, democratic institutions and anything else, I find vaguely blackmailing, of that blackmailing that can be said for politology, never for politics. That is why, when it comes to safeguarding the electoral law, as Senator Bruno intelligently said this morning, we want to refer to what the Constitution, colleagues on the left, before starting the text of the 75, led the Assembly to vote on the agenda of the Giolitti, which then belonged to the PCI. And that agenda contained a commitment to ensure that the electoral law respected criteria and principles of representativeness. Let's look back. Why didn't institutional reform work when he was President of the Prodi Council and President of that Commission of Alema (we were in the late 1990s)? Because at a certain point the agreement was reached on what was outside the Constitution (the tart of the house Letta) and twenty days later we realized that the dish to serve was still the risotto to Milanese. I believe that we did well from the center-right to understand that when we voted for the trust of the Letta-Alfano Government in that Government, Vice-President Alfano had entered without pretending that the government program contained the reforms of justice, including constitutional reforms, which the same Minister Alfano had presented in 2010. But this is not abdication to the rule of law, to the values of the constitutional state. In our sentiments, colleagues from the centre-left, and I hope in common sentiments, there must be the constitutional state at all times. The rule of law always and in any case. And always and anyway a judge in Berlin and a defendant in Milan - let's understand ourselves - with the same baggage. I shall conclude, Mr President, by quoting a colleague who honours our House and her role as President. In recent days, Senator Linda Lanzillotta has been honored with the attention of readers of a newspaper such as the one that best identified the current political season. There's a line from Lanzillotta that I liked. Recalling the history and present of this moment he said: while Germany was making reforms using the flywheel and the technicalities of the euro, we wrapped ourselves in the Berlusconism-antiberlusconism guerrilla. Now we also have a great coalition, a Service Government, call it what you want: let's reform. We also challenge the impopolity of the short term. Public opinion and civil society deserve respect, but they also have respect and affection for representative democracy institutions. [[Applause from the PDL and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u68	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, at last for us, on the occasion of the deposit and examination of these motions, we come to face the crux of constitutional reforms, but it would be true for the umpteenth time. Everyone in this House, and not only in this House, we have been hearing and repeating for a very long time now that constitutional reforms - in particular the revision of Part II of the Constitution - are absolutely inescapable. Redesigning the architecture of the state, the form of government of the country is now a necessity that has been highlighted by all in this House. But the thing, Minister, that comes to us as a Group of the North League is that it is also a bit embarrassing, after almost thirty years (let us not forget that next year, in 2014, 30 years will have passed since the beginning of the reform work in 1984), that this country continues to question the same issues. As a result, after Bicamerali, experiences of various Commissions, we are still wondering what is the best way to operate and in what times. Those who preceded me, much more authoritatively than I, pointed out that already in 2005 a large majority had adopted a constitutional reform that had produced tangible results that would already be true today. It already predicted the reduction of the number of parliamentarians; therefore it already had a precise and drastic impact on the reduction of the costs of politics, it would already give response to the country and to the citizens. It provided for the federal Senate, with the expression of the autonomy and the Regions. It provided for overcoming the perfect bicameralism. A series of measures, in short, that would already be a reality today if it had not been that, because of ideological oppositions, therefore because of a bad reading that was intended to give for the usual logics and the usual begs between parties, in the face of the popular will that reform found a rejection. Today, therefore, we are taking a path we all hope for. The Letta Government has presented itself to the Chambers to ask for confidence by reaffirming and expressly saying that precisely from those reforms had to start: from the outcome of the constitutional reform of the 15th legislature and from the path that had been faced even in the past by the majority of Government, which had led to the development of the law delegation on fiscal federalism and all the consequent implementing decrees, approved but, it happens, also those, although all say that the completion of the path of fiscal federalism is unavoidable, buried and remained closed in a drawer. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We appreciated, Minister, your speech during yesterday's hearing at the Constitutional Affairs Committees of the House and Senate, as well as the intention expressed by the Government, when the President of the Letta Council asked the Chambers for confidence, with the fundamental passage that provides for the effective implementation and completion of the entire path of fiscal federalism. But now - and it is a pleasure to hear that today this appeal is being launched by all political forces - this path can no longer be procrastinated. It is therefore time to follow these fine words, these beautiful declarations of intent, the facts. What worries us in the statements of the President-in-Office of the Council and yours, Minister, is that we are still here to ask ourselves, on the occasion of these reforms, how and when to leave, and we are not certain at this time. We have carefully read the motions lodged and we reiterate that perhaps the motion of our Group is the one which gives an indication of procedures and times more certain, but it is not the result only of our position: it is the statement made expressly by the President of the Council Letta at the time when he asked for confidence and on which this majority of Government, which supports the Executive, has expressed itself with broad consensus. The Convention, through the parliamentary work of the members of the Commissions, but also with the help of external experts (consultants), in 18 months (therefore with a precise timetable) should have produced a text to be submitted to the vote of the two Chambers. On the other hand, the idea of speaking now of a Committee, of a Commission composed of a majority of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs representing all political forces, but working in the referee and whose work is therefore subject to the emendability of all Members of Parliament, for us, although it respects exactly the democratic principle of the most direct participation possible, as it should be, represents a risk. We have seen what it has produced over all these years: it is a waste of time to discuss ways, forms and procedures without producing anything concrete. Unfortunately - and we have some scepticism about this - the usual ideological contrasts between parties hinder the true process of reform. Therefore, we are afraid that everything will end up piling up in a Committee, in a Commission that will in fact not be able to comply with the announced timetable and with which - I repeat - the head of the Letta Government has expressly said that it would have the legitimate consequences. This absolute need for reform is intended only to improve and make the whole system more efficient. The complete implementation of fiscal federalism - which in particular I would like to define as "the path of standard needs," which is already the current law of the State (even if in words everyone agrees that we can't ignore this, in fact, we never see anyone spend to get to its concrete application) would allow the country to efficiency the entire system, recover resources and better distribute them among the areas of the country. Therefore, we urge that the Government's indication of the Convention be expressly followed, so that it produces a text and really leads to the start of a real, concrete reform process and at certain times. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u70	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the reform of the institutions and of politics, together with the reforms for growth, are in fact the fundamental mission of the newly-born Letta Government, also because there is - as Mr Della Vedova also pointed out - a very close connection between growth, competitiveness and the existence or not of a ruling democracy, institutions capable of providing timely and effective solutions and accountable for their work, institutions respected by citizens. It is no coincidence that the Italian decline, even from the point of view of growth, has accompanied the inability to reform our institutions. And in fact this was the objective that the Italian political system has failed for forty years, blocking each time in front of the vetoes, the reciprocal vetoes, the mistrusts, the conveniences of the parties. President Napolitano - a few months have passed, but we seem to have almost removed him and forgotten him - has launched Parliament, exposing the ignovia and irresponsibility of a political system that today, in the midst of the most serious economic crisis of the century, is unable to guide the country with authority and credibility in the storm of globalization. I heard that even today we tended to hide behind the "Porcellum." Of course, the "Porcellum" - you, President, you know - is a bad law, but the crisis of authority of the political system has lasted for decades, long before the "Porcellum," because in the name of the rhetoric of the most beautiful Constitution in the world - true affirmation with regard to Part I, but we also know that the great Constituents recognized the limits of Part II - has instead protected and preserved the political system behind mechanisms of irresponsibility and consociativism. The Letta Government was born for this: not to cover with a great coalition the permanence of a devastating immobilism, but to find in the vast majority that supports it the strength to carry out radical reforms, as President Letta rightly announced in his programmatic speech. That is why we have worked for this Government to be born, and for this reason we have supported it and we hope to support it with conviction. Today we are faced with the first step in the process, at which the limit of eighteen months has been set, and we must frankly say that the path outlined concerns us not a little: it appears unnecessarily long and excessively indeterminate in its content and in its arrivals. With regard to the path, which may well have disappeared, the Convention (because, in addition to the rest, understandable doubts have prevailed about its compatibility with Article 138 of the Constitution, which is difficult to derogate from in its core), any hypothesis of speeding up the process of constitutional revision seems to have disappeared, strengthening a text that can be approved by simplified and shortened procedure, also in order to overcome the historical resistances that have occurred every time we really tried to overcome the perfect bicameralism and that concerned this branch of Parliament first and foremost. What is proposed today is essentially the procedure referred to in Article 138, with the only variant of the reference phase entrusted to the Constitutional Affairs Commissions. In order to do this limited corrective, a constitutional law is envisaged which, in accordance with the current Article 138, will not take less than four to six months to be approved; but is it really worth it or is it not a way to evade and postpone the confrontation on issues that the major majority parties are unable to address by finding points of synthesis within themselves? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] A way to immediately abandon the idea of a real legislature at least of constitutional regeneration - if we do not want a constituent legislature - that gives the country hope to get out of the swamp in which we have been hard floating for years? It was precisely the President of the Council who recalled in the programmatic declarations that in the last parliamentary term, on a number of points, a substantial agreement had been reached: a reduction in the number of parliamentarians, a reform of bicameralism, a strengthening of the powers of the Executive, a revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution for a substantial simplification, starting from the elimination of the Provinces; all mature points, on which also the essays established by the President of the Republic (she, Minister, knows it well) had found substantial convergence and from which President Letta thought it necessary to start. So why not do it now and not do it in a few months, in a pragmatic and concrete spirit, with results that are at hand and that the citizens have been waiting for decades? Why, after abandoning the Convention, should a new Commission of experts be proposed and charged with expectations, which should give indications that it would be up to politics to finally be able to express itself, indicating today in the motion with which the reform process begins the guidelines of a constitutional reform that innovates the form of government, so as to reorganize a shattered political system that has been unable to express homogeneous coalitions and stable governments for twenty years now? Only by defining this perspective in a concrete way, only by speeding up these decisions, can the commitment to a non-temporary revision of the electoral law be credible. Otherwise, the announced minimalist maintenance of the "Porcellum" imposed by the failure of the decision of the Constitutional Court (this hypothesis, I immediately clarify, on which Civic Choice has already announced its opposition), as a temporary bridge solution, risks becoming a definitive solution that would not be able to repair that broken relationship between elected and voters. We are also concerned by the passage of the motion that does not exclude the possibility that a referendum may take place not on individual constitutional laws that modify part of the Constitution on time but on a single law that collects all the changes, even if they concern parts other than the constitutional text. This is a point which, in our opinion, exceeds the limits of Article 138 and on which, several times, even with reference to the 2006 reform, a clear opposition has been expressed in scientific and political terms; moreover, it risks to coagulate, I find self-injury, disagreements on individual points and overwhelm the whole design. These are the reasons why the sayings and the not sayings of the motion make us fear that tensions, resistances, opportunistic calculations are reproducing that have already so many times blocked the reforms, digging ever wider and almost uncompromising grooves between parties and public opinion. This, however, is the last opportunity that the Italian political system has to redeem itself in the eyes of the Italians. We take on the task of monitoring, day after day, so that the ambiguities that we have observed today do not turn into inertia, inconclusive postponements or, worse, fake reforms. We will be a constant pongolo for the government and the majority, because this is the mission we want to carry out, convinced as we are that only deep reforms will be able to save the institutions, revitalize the relationship with the citizens and preserve our democracy. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Tonini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u72	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u73	Mr President, at the time of the presentation of the motion submitted by the 5 Star Movement to the vote of this House, we have already pointed out that the need to reform the Constitution, which the Government has put with force, is to be critically analyzed in whether, to the extent and in the direction. Minister, in the report presented at the hearing to the Constitutional Affairs Committees of the House and the Senate in joint session, you stated that the institutional order drawn up by the Constitution of the Republic shows clear signs of obsolescence that make our Charter inadequate to the challenges, even economic ones, that our country must support in this century. This assumption was then declined in its various implications, for which the Charter, in its new capacity, should see the system optimized in a streamlined form of parliamentary government, even with a semi-presidentialist option that should make the government more snappy of the big issues that the present poses. Basically the object of the dispute is to move - we think - quotas of decision-making power from Parliament, the theoretical centre of the current system, towards the Commission, which for years already, improperly, with the use of the decree of urgency and the question of trust, has occupied spaces not its own, thus correcting with a more serious distortion the functional alteration caused by the failure, punctual application of the parliamentary regulations, which instead would have safeguarded the timing and, with this, the fluidity of the legislative process. This was possible because, with a series of small ideological forces, supported by the changes in electoral laws, the political forces have superimposed, to the point of confusing them, the powers that the government and those in the name of Parliament. What we are afraid of is that instead of re-establishing a division of powers into a proper system of weights and balances, the proposed reforms will eventually undermine the current state of affairs in which the Commission has effectively forced Parliament into a minimum functional enclosure. We did not miss the proposal to intervene on the number of signatures necessary to request a referendum, adapting this number to the increase in the population. It goes without saying that we regard any incremental hypothesis as a departure from a perspective of citizen involvement in the constituent and amending processes of the legal order. A separate speech deserves the reasoning proposed by the Government on the management of the question of the costs of politics, so it would be proposed to reduce transfers from the state budget to that of the political forces, replaced, to an extent to be defined, by the provision of services, such as the use of public property premises for the exercise of political activities. Mr. Minister, hearing about the incompressibility of the costs of politics, we find it impossible not to think about the way in which we, citizens who are members of the 5 Star Movement, have collected the demands and consents of our fellow citizens on the streets and on the Internet, without paying big figures, talking to everyone and, above all, listening to everyone... [[Applause from the M5S Group]] is thus enriching our wealth of knowledge, poor today of institutional experience, as rich in awareness of the needs of that electorate to which the parties normally address with electoral ads and slogans defined by communication agencies, yes, at a high price. We have then heard of the regulation of lobbying - we imagine not in the Constitution - and even there we look with a certain suspicion at the clearance of the activity of operators intent on defending the interests of large companies and strong economic categories, while the citizens are now accustomed to seeing their own interests, perhaps just as legitimate, sacrificed by the sense of responsibility of political actors generally endowed with much other attention to the demands of large companies and economic potentates. On this occasion, we cannot accept that attention to the interests of a large company has allowed the right to health of the inhabitants of Taranto to be denied for years. The history of the United States, where lobbying is legal, has shown to date that legalization has increased the operating margins of lobbyists without being able to erode the ability to infiltrate the interests of companies when they should be unconfessible. Colleagues, the previous questions lead me to ask myself and ask you: which Republic do we want to leave to our children? That left us sixty years ago by the Constituents has already been quite wounded, offended, vile by the unpunished massacres (yesterday in this House we recalled that of Brescia), by the corruption and suspicions of cowardly agreements with organized crime. In recent times we have seen a branch of Parliament say in the most solemn way, with its own vote, that a poor girl, probably misled by her own ambitions and by the late appetites of a powerful man, was the nephew of a foreign Head of State. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli.]] Until when? The Government's proposal provides for procedures other than those laid down in Article 138 of the Constitution, procedures (defined by the Minister as an Article 138 reinforced by a confirmed referendum) which provide for simplifications of the parliamentary path that go in the opposite direction to a greater stiffening (as proposed by some authoritative scholars) following the modification of the composition of the Parliament caused by the adoption of non proportional electoral systems. For all the above, it is clear why the 5 Star Movement calls for the promotion of a public confrontation, widespread in the country, on what the citizens ask the political forces about the functioning of the institutions: a public confrontation on the reform of the Constitution, a secular and open confrontation in which every opinion can have the right to citizenship if properly motivated and punctually argued, a confrontation that gives direction to the political forces, and not the one coinciding with their own visions (I have heard in recent days affirm that the preliminary part and analysis of the constitutional debate is already carried out and now is the time to decide). What the 5 Star Movement proposes is an analysis involving the citizens, subjects and objects of the reform that we are going to draw, and that is ready for every conclusion, even that of not changing procedures, limiting - and "limiting" is an improper term - to change rather the behaviour of political representatives. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u74	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u75	Mr President, Minister Quagliariello, ladies and gentlemen, the PdL has given confidence to the Letta Government on the basis of the commitment made, also in this House, to respond to a deep crisis in the country that is manifested on two very exposed but highly interconnected fronts: on the economic front, in need, according to our anti-crisis recipe, of a shock, mainly with regard to the reduction of the tax burden on families, businesses and work. The second front, no less important than the first, is represented by institutional reforms, the main instrument to give back to politics that legitimacy that it has lost, as has been said in many of the interventions that have preceded me - Minister Quagliariello has also remembered in his programmatic report and the same President of the Council Letta - also for many, guilty, delays in the implementation of many reformatory plans (the plural is not random). Precisely the crisis scenario in which we move makes the issue of reforms more urgent, often perceived by citizens as academic debate, as a subject for books and treated by professionals; in short, as far as the deepest suffering in the country is concerned. No, it's not! The reforms affect the living body of the country, and we, the political class, the ruling class, are on the last call - also this has been reiterated by those who preceded me - not only because for thirty years, since the eighties, we have been discussing the issues that are the subject of today's motion. The drawers of this Palazzo tracimano of drafts of bicameral Commissions, Committees, expert opinions, auditions, which have all and all measured themselves with these arguments, with a dangerous oscillation - I really liked what Minister Quagliariello said - between modeling and constitutional conservatism. That's right. But the time factor is really crucial and now there is no more time. Businesses, workers, citizens, who deal with too high taxes, too slow administrations, banks that are too expensive or too ungenerous, no longer have time. They cannot wait for the gestation of a law to last more than two years in these fora; for a Council of Ministers to decide only partially for administrative relaxation or to lose itself in the meanders of procedures; for bureaucracy to suffocate them; or even that to form a Government, as happened after 24 February last, sixty days are necessary; in short, for the place of decisions for the community to appear as the place of immobilism, for a constitutional architecture partially surpassed by facts and even by history, therefore obsolete. The first cost of politics is and remains inefficiency. The points on which the PdL undertakes to support the majority's motion today are known and have also been repeated several times in this House: revision of the form of State and Government, with particular reference to the semi-premierial or parliamentary scheme with premiered, or rationalised parliamentary, which has also been the subject of the work of the essays, still, revision of Title V, which has not given good self-esteem in these years (from 2001 to now, unfortunately, the crowding of appeals to the Constitutional Court has shown that that the division of competences was not the right one). These are themes on which the PdL has its own recipes and proposals, such as the direct election of the Head of State, which has already passed the scrutiny of this House. But now it is useless to use circumlocutions: what we face today is yet another tension of an arc that has repeatedly, too many times, shot the arrow, but has not yet hit the target. In each of the experiences that preceded this attempt (Commissioni Bozzi, De Mita-Iotti, D'alema, 2005 attempt at organic reform, by the center-right, of some institutional structures, not rewarded by the ballot box of the constitutional referendum) there were certainly appreciable texts, shared results, and at times the political forces reached a step from the goal, but the final chronicles are chronicles of failures and mutual recriminations. Losing this opportunity today would mean condemning politics to mistrust and collective denigration, nourishing abstentionism, which we have already seen in place, and anti-system behaviors. But this time, compared to the experiences mentioned, I think there is something new, a very prospective fact that needs to be considered, but above all to build: now the majority for the reforms and the majority that support the Government coincide; the attention of the President of the Council on the reforms is absolutely constant; we have a Minister for constitutional reforms; the attention of the Head of State, who has connected, indeed subordinate, the implementation of the reforms, is vigilant, the acceptance of his second mandate. Hence, from Quirinale to Palazzo Chigi, passing naturally and powerfully through Parliament, all the centers of the democratic system have founded their balance on making the country more modern. In short, there is a President of guarantee and a Government of service and now we need a majority for the reforms that are, together, of guarantee and service: of guarantee, in the awareness that the reforms are not an arm of iron between the opposing parties, but common rules of the democratic competition in which all must be recognized; of service, in the sense that the reforms must be given to the country quickly, in the spirit of those who also know, sometimes, to renounce their own interest of part. That is why we welcome for a large part the content of the majority motion which is being discussed here today, as a necessary starting point, of course not enough, in order to deal with an exceptional situation from which - I would like to stress this - we come out only with massive doses of political courage. If a political agreement is not signed upstream between the main forces that support the Government, it is difficult to think of finding it only in the technical sites or within the Commissions. 14.26 (Follow BERNINI). In order to enable Parliament to work quickly and well, the agreements between the parties really concerned must be clear and, in the best legal tradition that emanates from the ius gentium, once concluded, the pacts must be maintained. We said yes, and we say it again, to the path shared with President Letta: institutional reforms and electoral law. It is clear that a new electoral law will be possible - logically, even before chronologically - to discuss not upstream, but downstream of the reforms, only after clear choices have been made on the form of State and Government, because a house is solid and secure if it is built from the foundations, not from the roof. This is the pact on which we have given confidence to the Led Government and the pacts presuppose consistent and correct behavior. To propose a return to the previous electoral law today, while Parliament is committed to finding a common direction on reforms, it is divisive, or rather, citing the words of President Finocchiaro, who represent him even better, an untimely and bullying act that risks generating only negative trascichi. We will therefore commit ourselves to doing our part to reform the institutional architecture of the State, with our own and shared recipes, and we believe that the Government will have to follow with equal incisiveness and determination the path just sketched out by the majority motion that we are discussing here today, to which I agree with conviction my support. [[Applause from the PdL and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u77	Madam President, I say to Mr Quagliariello that we will give our support in a convincing and proactive way to the phase of updating and revising the Constitution that opens today. The proposed method, contained in the motion of the Groups supporting the Government, seems acceptable to us and capable of producing good results. It is significant to have confirmed the parliamentary route, without seeking shortcuts that would have been a vulnus to Article 138 of the Constitution; to want to work together the Chambers to have homogeneous and consistent results; to provide for forms of popular participation, from the initial stage to the confirmation referendum. This will help to do a good job. We will talk about the substance at the right time: I do not want to touch on any of the many issues that will delight us in the coming weeks. On the other hand, I am interested to stress the great importance of the opportunity that we have before us, and that we cannot lose. We feel clearly - or in any case we should feel - the responsibility of actually doing it, of taking the whole path without being delayed or blocked by the obstacles that we will encounter. Perhaps today the most important thing to say and the most solemn commitment to take on us is precisely this: not so much the prefiguration of the arrivals of this work - which, out of respect for the debate to be done, must be protected in any way from improvisations and tugs - as the assumption of the convinced and determined responsibility to be able to make it really, in spite of the scepticisms and also of the interested hope - I want to define it this way - of those who want to continue to hurricane themselves against politics incapable of their own interests, often exchanged for the general needs of the country. I would like to add that we must succeed in the name of the country, not only in the reorganization of the institutions. Of course, the primary objective is the institutional system, which is experiencing a moment of great difficulty and needs a profound and decisive updating. It is our primary and indispensable duty to recover the ditch that has been created between citizens and institutions; the civic and moral crisis is no less serious than the economic and social crisis, rather it contributes much to aggravate it. In the name of the country everything, therefore, these reforms that we will deal with in the coming months also serve the social and civil coexistence of Italy, are part of the promise of solidarity and inclusion that lies in the government's program and that is not maintained without strong institutions and open to the new: they serve the cultural recovery - and I would stress the adjective - of the Nation, to counter the degradation of intellectual confrontation and the drift of politics and anti-politics; they serve mainly to the national economy and are a constituent element of the country's general competitiveness. There is no economic-industrial competitiveness without the modernity, effectiveness and competitiveness of the institutions. The crisis that opened in 2008 has done justice to many hyperliberal simplifications: even those who theorize less state, the more market they have had to rethink and will rethink. Perhaps the right formula could be efficient state and intelligent market today, emphasising the quality of the performance of each and not a sterile conflict - this yes - ideologically obsolete. We must therefore make it possible for all these reasons and for a more general reason, which I know is very dear to President Letta: with these institutional reforms we will be stronger and credible at European level, we will increase the international prestige of the country and we can better fight to move the axis of Community policy, certainly not alone, but together with other countries, which have similar needs to ours, which look to a general interest of Europe. I would like to take this opportunity to stress that austerity alone is not enough and that government action is right to rebalance on a new path of qualitative development the measures taken to keep public finances under control. I conclude this reasoning on the responsibility that lies before us, broadening a moment the look on the positive consequences that this work can produce in the depths of our society, in our territories. These reforms are a sign for everyone, for every sector and part of the country. Let us be honest: the demands of modernisation, simplification and efficiency are not only in the field of politics and institutions, but they cross all categories, all associations and all professions. We will try to do our part whole, starting today, but the other economic, cultural and social players also do theirs. We need everyone's contribution, really everyone. Of course, politics and institutions must act first, carry out the task before others and set an example, even to remove alibis that are sometimes very comfortable. Behind the shortcomings of politics are all too often hidden selfishness, inefficiencies, furberies that erode that feeling of national cohesion and identity which is the background of our debate today. Reorganising the institutions is therefore the preliminary and necessary step to reorganize many other aspects of national life. In the meantime, we will have to look at all the institutions with an overall view, as has already been said. Let us not forget the close links linking Government and Parliament to regional and local self-government. There is an organic view of all this, as unfortunately there has hardly ever been so far, and we are working on a new model of state which harmonizes with regional and local authorities. They are not the problem, the weight of our Republic; on the contrary, they are the widespread foundations of our democracy, the instrument of linking with the closest and most engaging citizens. I say this to my colleagues in the League, also the federalist motion, which we share if healthy and supportive, needs an efficient state and democracy. We can also give many other examples of useful and non-deferable reorganisations: I am thinking of overcoming the chambers of commerce, the exasperated forms of university decentralisation, the dispersability of the thousand state offices scattered throughout the territory. I would like to make one last remark on the open method of transparency and participation that is proposed: it is a positive thing and a fair signal; we will strive for it to be the essence of how we will move, but also a constitutive part of the content, of what we will decide. A more modern state is based on the active participation of citizens far more than it has been so far. There is to be gathered and represented in the depths of our society sensitivity, questions, but also new availability: they are valuable contributions of civicism, coexistence, sustainability, even when they present themselves in a critical form. Not everything is anti-political and even what it is contains within it a proactive, innovative and constructive germ that must be collected. I have spent my time stressing the absolute need not only to leave, but also to arrive. For the many of us who sit on these benches for the first time there is the hope of being able to say: we made it to the first. That would be extraordinary. We will therefore make serious efforts not to miss the opportunity, for the institutions and for the country all. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u78	The debate is closed. I note that the authors have reworded motion No 48 and that agendas have been tabled. In addition, three amendments to motion No 47 were tabled by Senators Crimi and others and Senator Barani respectively. The documents have already been sent to the Groups and are distributed in the Chamber. As established by the Conference of Leaders, the President of the Council of Ministers' reply will take place at 3.30 p.m., with direct television transmission, as well as subsequent explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u79	I say that the Conference of Leaders, which met this morning, has approved changes to the current timetable. In relation to the progress of the work of the Commissions gathered public works and environment on the decree-law concerning environmental emergencies, the discussion of the measure, already on the agenda of today's sitting, was postponed until next week, after the conclusion of the examination of the decree-law concerning the payment of debts of the public administration. The other items on the agenda remain confirmed and therefore the afternoon sitting of tomorrow will not take place, even in order to allow the Commissions to convene in relation to the respective work programmes, with particular regard to the examination of the decree-laws.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u80	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting this morning with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly until June 6, 2013: [[Wednesday 29 May ant. h. 9.30 - Motions debate on the start of the process of constitutional reforms Thursday, May 30 pm. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy on initiatives in favour of the development of youth farming entrepreneurship and on the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy]] [[Monday, June 3rd pom. h. 17-20 - Drawing of law no. 662 - Decree-Law No. 35, payment of debts PA (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the maneuver of public finance) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Scade on 7 June) - Drawing of law no. 576 - Decree-Law No. 43, environmental emergencies and other urgent measures (Scade on 25 June 2013) - Motion No. 33, Lucidi, on the boards of directors of companies with public participation Tuesday 4 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 15,30-18 Wednesday 5 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 6 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 6 June pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to bill No 662 (Decree-law on payment of PA debts) will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. on Thursday 30 May. Time distribution for discussion of motions for starting the path of constitutional reforms (Exclude illustration of motions and explanations of vote) [[Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 44' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 23' Mixed 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 662 (Decree-Law No 35, payment of PA debts) (8 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 44' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 23' Mixed 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 576 (Decree-Law No 43, environmental emergencies and other urgent measures) (8 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 44' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 23' Mixed 23' Dissentents 5']] I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 14.39 p.m. and resumed at 3.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u81	Let's resume our work. I note that live television with RAI is in progress, which will continue until the explanations of vote have been completed. I call on the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Letta, to give an opinion on the amendments, motions and agendas that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 April - a few days ago, after all - we were all listening together to the words of the Head of State, who, just re-elected, in a dramatic situation, after an unprecedented institutional crisis for our country, expressed to Parliament unequivocal words, the words linked to an unprecedented crisis situation of our institutions, with which President Napolitano just re-elected asked Parliament to speak in the language of truth: the language of truth linked to the necessity, absolutely non-deferable, to realize that the crisis of politics and institutions in our country has reached such a point that it is not imaginable that we continue to pretend to do nothing; pretending to make reforms; pretending to fight over the reforms to be done, except then not to combine anything. Those words return to our memory, our mind and our ears because they are the fundamental words around which we are called here today, a month after those moments so strong, to give immediate follow-up, and application to a commitment that we all took together when it was decided to ask President Napolitano to be re-elected Head of State and then to begin an absolutely original path that led to the birth of the Government that I have the honour to preside. On the other hand, this interesting debate of ours - this morning in the Senate - I was able to grasp, during the speeches of illustration of the motions, interesting and in-depth speeches, of which I of course took note - comes two days after another non-secondary moment of our political and democratic life. I would like to say that, if there had been a need to have further confirmation of the situation of dramatic detachment of citizens from politics as it is today in our country, it came with the vote of the local elections on Sunday and Monday and - I do not want to use words too strong, but I believe it deeply - with that dramatic alarm bell that the low, too low, participation of citizens in the vote wanted to ring for the whole system of institutions. We cannot accept that, in a big city like Rome, the capital of our country, votes one citizen out of two and that one citizen out of two does not go to vote, without all of us asking ourselves the problem of what this means. [[Applause]] We must start here to reflect on what we are doing here today. We are not simply fulfilling a necessary duty, I could say it first, because it was part of one of the commitments I made with you, with this Parliament, the day this Parliament wanted to give us confidence. This is not a matter of duty and simply assuming responsibility. It is something more, because the signal that Italian citizens gave Sunday and Monday is unclear. It is a sign that we have an opportunity today that I believe we must grasp to the very end. We have an opportunity - this morning it was interesting for me to listen to the debate that took place here, at least in the initial part of the illustration of the motions - which is not the first, because many speeches - I refer to Senator Calderoli's - have made a list of all the opportunities lost in these not years, decades, of reforms that have begun and then have been lost, have not gone ahead, and have led us to the situation that we know today. This government was born with three major objectives, three points. First of all, the great theme of Europe, the Europe against which it is necessary to contribute to a change of line, a line that is no longer linked only to the theme of austerity totem; a line that is fiscal consolidation, no debt, on the one hand, and commitment to growth on the other, so that the entire European continent finds the way to growth and prosperity. Then there is the theme of the economy, of growth, of work, the social theme, so difficult to live in a country like ours. And then, the third big issue, the reform of politics. And on this issue of reform of the policy and reform of the institutions, today, when Italy comes out of the excessive deficit procedure and when the Community institutions make a series of recommendations to Italy - the main one of which is: you have to continue, and you have to make structural reforms - I think (and I have tried in every way to highlight it, and so have the Ministers of the Government who represented their counterparts and fellow Europeans) that what we are doing here today is probably the beginning of one of the most important structural reforms that Italy can do. It is not true that, when we talk about structural reforms, we relate exclusively to economic matters or financial matters: that is not the case. When we talk about structural reforms, we start first of all - I believe - from the meaning of the institutions of a country, ours, which has no institutions that make it able to decide. This is the first of the great issues we have before us: being able to decide; being able to decide by democratically involving everyone, but being able to decide. This has been said in so many speeches, which I found very interesting. We have the most beautiful Constitution. I found the message from Senator Campanella this morning very strong in illustrating the motion that the 5 Star Movement Group presented. Our Constitution is the most robust, the best, but although it has held - and has held it right - we must change it, because today, compared to the needs that our society, Europe and competition with other countries lead us to have, we need institutions that decide more quickly, more effectively and more democratically: this is, after all, the main objective that we have today. We are faced with the objective of carrying out one of the main structural reforms that makes our country able to decide and that it does so by strengthening the quality of our democracy, an issue that has seen our citizens give very severe judgments, even in recent days. I think it is very important - in today's debate - that there is a clear sense of urgency and therefore a sense of the time when we must take these decisions. It cannot begin here, today, a path from undefined times. It would, I believe, be the worst thing we could do to start a path from the indefinite times that gives the idea to our fellow citizens that we are back to the point and from the beginning; that we are there again trying to carry out an exercise that will not lead to anything, like the many who have already preceded this exercise. That is not the case: we must give certain times. The 18 months that are contained in the text of the majority motion are a time that I think is the right time: it cannot be a later time than 18 months. These 18 months must be the time within which a reform process ends which, of course, is complex: we all know it, our fellow citizens know it. Our Constitution has endured, and has endured well, changing it involves rigidity and, therefore, complex times. However, these times must find a determination on our part, on the part of all of us, to be able to do well and to do quickly, so as to have, within 18 months precisely, the constitutional reform approved and our institutions able to function with this new step: the quality of democracy reinvigorated again, as I think it absolutely can happen. This XVII legislature - as Mr Laniece said earlier - can be the constituent legislature, at last. And I believe that it is an objective that we must all give ourselves, knowing that the adaptation of Part II of the Constitution - I take back what Senator De Cristofaro said by presenting the motion of the Mixed-SEL Group - serves to give more strength to the principles of Part I, to which we continue today to believe and consider them the center of the koinè, of our common life. But they must have more strength for this very reason. On the other hand, it is difficult - we know, as Senator Nencini said this morning - for the constituted power to become constituent power, but we must try, because there are no alternatives. It is the only trap that we have, and it is a trap that we must absolutely pursue by reaching goals. I said the times, certain times. Citizens must know that. I said that in my speech on trust: if these times pass without positive conclusions, I believe that the government can only take note of the inconclusion of our joint work. I am convinced, however, that this time the step is the right one. I am convinced of this because first of all today, 29 May, we have been working for a month and we are already here today in a position to start the constituent process. This is a sign that Parliament is completely convinced of this objective, an objective that we all share. I would like here to anticipate one of the points that I believe are essential to the debate on motions and the path that we will take together, a path that strengthens the centrality of Parliament. I say this in relation to much of the debate that took place this morning (Senator Campanella insisted on this very much): the centrality of Parliament. I would particularly like to address Senator Calderoli, who mentioned some of the statements on trust. On the motion tabled by the League, my opinion is positive when it is interpreted, however, what I am saying, namely that the statements I made at the time of confidence had an evolution compared to what happened in the relationship between political forces. Today we come here with this idea, with this pattern that I think can work. A scheme that gives Parliament centrality in the creation of this Committee of forty Members of Parliament, chosen within the Constitutional Affairs Committees of the House and Senate, which will be the driving force behind the reform process, in a condition in which the whole Parliament will then be involved, in a logic in which Parliament will not be exonerated but strengthened in its centrality. The Government will undertake to consult and involve, with a wide spectrum of cultural and political origins, through the committee of experts that we will create in the coming days, in the next hours, the best of Italian legal science, of the cultural experiences of our country in order to try to help a process that, however, is the Parliament that must carry out, without overlaps that could probably be foriers of misunderstandings and separation mechanisms that in the end would be negative. It is Parliament that will make the constitutional reform, but I think it is absolutely important to stress that the effort of the Committee of Wise Men, the experts who, in the next few hours, will work with the contribution of all cultural origins, has as its function to make Parliament's path stronger, and I add, without mortifying the protagonism of each of the parliamentarians and senators and, above all, without taking away the possibility - which I think is important and which I have seen in this morning's speeches - that, in the end, the citizens of our country will express themselves on this important and complex choice. I believe that this final point - it will be the Italian citizens who decide - is a point of recovery of trust between institutions and citizens that is absolutely fundamental, because this reform must be done, and must be done not against, but together. And it is an essential reform in order to restore credibility to politics, it is essential that those objectives - the end of bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, greater effectiveness in the work and in the way in which to decide - are achieved. In this regard, I listened to important words this morning on the subject of parliamentary regulations, which obviously is not the subject of the Government, which is completely subsidiary to the work of the Chambers, but which it was important to identify, because we all know how much parliamentary regulations so ancient in some ways make complex a rather modern work that must be done, and knowing that much of the work that has been done in particular in the last legislature (I refer to the president of the Senate of last legislature, Senator Schifani) is certainly able, because it had been a very advanced job, to be an integral part of the content on many issues of the work that will have to be finalized in this reformatory path. I believe that this is an objective within the reach of all of us. I am convinced, because I believe that we all realise that we cannot joke this time, that the electoral law will have to be changed and that it will obviously be a fundamental part of this reform process, because we all know that the current electoral law does not work, it is not the right one for the needs we have today. We therefore know that the electoral law must be changed and we know very well that it will be an essential part of this debate. We also know that in this process (many people have said this this morning, both in the Senate and in the debate in the House, and I want to take up the topic) the electoral law must be adopted together, with a broad sharing, as well as this constitutional reform must be approved with a broad sharing. We cannot afford to come to the end of this path with divisions, narrow majorities, contrasts that would eventually get dirty and make this fundamental work that we have to do ineffective in the end. And we must involve our citizens. In the work that the committee that the Government will set up immediately, and especially in the work of Parliament, through that consultation process, including through the Network, which we will put and will have to put in place, there will have to be an involvement of all citizens, and there are many who want to be involved in this reform process. We are faced with a historic opportunity; I believe it is a historic opportunity, of those we must seize absolutely; I think it is a historic opportunity that we can seize and that is within our reach. I believe that we can give our institutions greater decision-making capacity, greater representativeness, a greater capacity to be - I would say - European in their effectiveness and decision-making capacity, then in their ability to be quick in decisions but at the same time to be very representative. In short, the path that began on April 22, the path that was carried out in the commissions that the President of the Republic had appointed, which then continued in the discussion that we had here and in your vote of confidence to a government program that contained the discussion around today's issues, therefore the reform of politics, the reform of the institutions as the basic and central theme of the life of the Government, today comes to an essential moment. And this turning point, as far as we are concerned, we do not want to miss it, knowing that the role of the Government is only a small part of this path, because it will be the leading Parliament, and also knowing - I say this to the parliamentary groups that do not support the Government, at this time above all - that our will is the full and complete will to consider that this path will have to be a path that involves everyone, because we have all been touched by what happened on Sunday and Monday. And we cannot blame each other for the fact that there are those who have been touched more or less by abstentionism, those who have won and those who have lost, those who are older and those who are newer: it is the whole system of institutions that is being questioned when only one in two citizens votes; and there is no one who can get out. We have a great opportunity, in my opinion, to make this reform, and this reform must do it right to the end and ensure that this collective commitment is a commitment that everyone takes. Mr President, I come to give my views on the motions that have been tabled. With the arguments I mentioned earlier, the opinion is in favour of motion No 31 (text 3), first signed by Senator Calderoli, as it is in favour of motion No 44, first signed by Senator Zeller, provided that there is that amendment on the passage relating to members not members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because we have assessed that the members must be taken from among the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The opinion on motion No 46 at the first signature of Senator Crimi, given the general approach, can only be against it. The opinion on motion No 47, tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators, is in favour, with a call for the withdrawal of its related amendments, on which, if they are not withdrawn, the opinion is opposed. I am also against the G2 agenda, at the first signing of Senator Crimi, and against the G1 agenda, at the first signing of Senator Nencini, because the convening of a constituent Assembly is obviously a different path from what we are doing at the moment. I also object to Senator Barani's G3 agenda because it contains an indication of the substance of the division of legislative powers under Article 117 of the Constitution. As far as SEL is concerned, I confess that I am quite amazed, in the sense that we are open to comparison - as I said - also with respect to content. But to learn with regret that the choice of SEL will be to vote against the majority motion, for what has been said (of course I will listen very carefully to the explanation of vote to try to understand why), can only lead me to believe that we will therefore not be able to give a favourable opinion on the motion that SEL has tabled; therefore the opinion can only be opposed. However - I repeat - I will listen very carefully to the explanation of vote, because instead I believe that there were all the conditions for a different choice and therefore to go into a different condition. I therefore believe - as I have explained - that with respect to all these issues we have today a very great opportunity. I would like us to take it to the end, and taking this opportunity to the very end means knowing that we are playing the credibility of the institutions and of the policy towards the citizens around this choice. I am convinced that we will not waste this great opportunity. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI, GAL and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u83	I thank the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u86	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the Mixed-SEL Group believes that the path of constitutional reform that is taking place today must certainly not be an exercise in institutional engineering, as has happened in the past, but a necessary process to bridge the distance, never as great as today, between citizens and institutions, and must therefore intervene on the quality of our democracy. The cause of this rift and, more generally, the enormous distrust of the citizens of the institutions and of Parliament - which also manifested itself in a dramatic way at the last elections, with a strong abstentionism - is not, in our opinion, to be sought in the Constitution itself (this is a point we particularly care about), much less in its Part I, but in the degeneration of the parties, in the bad politics, which wanted to be detached from the citizens, unable to give answers to the serious real and material problems of the country. This does not alter the fact that, in order to restore credibility and authority, first and foremost, to Parliament and, more generally, to the Republican institutions, precise and precise measures are needed to amend Part II of the Constitution. But even before these changes, precisely in order to restore credibility and full legitimacy to Parliament, we believe that it is essential to take immediate action, as a priority, on the current electoral law, which has caused a serious blow to representative democracy and to the confidence of the citizens towards it. So, Mr President, we repeat once again to this House - and for this reason, among other things, we have tabled a specific draft law - that the Porcellum must be repealed immediately. The electoral law is not a constitutional revision law, I say this to President Letta, and the fact that we also wanted to keep in the majority motion the reference to electoral systems in the constitutional reform process is, Mr President, one of the issues that we do not see absolutely in favour of, or indeed fully against, and that is one of the reasons (on the others I will then return) why we are voting against the majority motion. The "Porcellum" must be repealed immediately, before the Constitutional Court, to which the Supreme Court has addressed itself, and, in order to avoid being without electoral law, the "Mattarellum" must be restored. On this point - let us say it clearly - we do not intend to compromise in any way. We do not understand, however, the agenda presented by the 5 Star Movement Group, which in fact asks us to rely on a pure and simple maintenance of the "Porcellum," maintaining, in fact, the plant of the "Porcellum" itself. We would also not like the idea of making electoral law subject to constitutional reforms, particularly that on the form of government (it is a very delicate point, of which we find trace in the motion), to be a way of taking time and, in the meantime, to restrict only to the modification dictated by the judgment of the Supreme Court, maintaining the installation of the "Porcellum" and limiting, in fact, the amendment of the electoral law only to that correction; nor would we want it to be thought that, by changing the form of government, the electoral law should be adapted to it. We could discuss here for a long time the fact that in other countries, with different forms of government, there are various electoral systems (so the issues are very independent), but this is an issue concerning the quality of democracy. Returning to the reforms, they must, in our view, ensure a better and more coherent implementation of the principles and values enshrined in the first part of the Constitution, restore momentum and strength to the project of political and social emancipation outlined in it and therefore do not change the meaning of the Constitution, but reverse it. The attempts at constitutional reform to date - fortunately some of them have failed - have been inspired, in our opinion, by an opposite logic, that is, by the attempt to transform the Constitution from an instrument of democracy to an instrument instead of a guarantee of oligarchies or of a single part. Instead, we in the Mixed-SEL Group believe that reforms that affirm and broaden constitutional democracy and in particular participatory democracy are necessary. We must intervene on the instrument of the referendum, for example on the issue of quorum for repealing quorums and by introducing the institution of the proposed referendum. It is necessary to strengthen the institution of the laws of popular initiative, introducing the obligatory examination and vote in certain times. They are therefore instruments of direct democracy or, better still, participatory democracy, which are not in opposition, but rather a strengthening and completion of representative democracy. In fact, this also means giving Parliament back its central role, on which we will also have to intervene, for example by restricting the use and abuse of the urgent decree. But restoring centrality to Parliament also means doing so fully in the process of constitutional reforms. So let us acknowledge the government and the majority - in this sense we are therefore satisfied - that the path, initially presented, of the Convention for Reforms has been abandoned - that is, a road which was in fact extra-parliamentary and which conculcated, in some way, the prerogatives of Parliament - and that today we return instead to the main road of the procedures provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution, for a path of constitutional reforms shared and able to obtain the broadest parliamentary consensus, avoiding that the changes of the Constitution are the prerogative of contingent majorities of government, as has happened in the past. Again with regard to Article 138 of the Constitution, we think that innovation is also essential to involve citizens - even in this case we appreciate the fact that it has been introduced - namely the use of the constitutional referendum, or rather, as we say, of referendums for homogeneous subjects, even in the case of the achievement of the quorum of two thirds, also because the two thirds of the Chamber and Senate, because of the distortions of the "Porcellum" certainly do not represent the two thirds of the electoral body. We also reiterate that the constitutional bill must be approved precisely by the bicameral of the Constitutional Affairs Commissions in the referee, and not in the drafting session, precisely in order to respect the principle of equality of each Member of Parliament in the reform process. We in the Mixed-SEL Group are for the consolidation of the form of parliamentary government. I repeat: we are for the consolidation of the form of parliamentary government. This is another point, Mr President, which I believe divides us and which has led us to vote against the majority motion. It is precisely in this debate that too many references have emerged, especially to semi-presidency, which do not convince us. But we are - like SEL - so that there is full participation in the process of constitutional reforms, to defend and promote constitutional democracy: not as a cold exercise of institutional engineering, but, as Gustavo Zagrebelsky would say, using his words, as a fundamental democratic issue to give answers to the problems of the lives of men and women in this country. Demanding peace, work, environment, legality and transparency of power means asking for a demand for democracy. Not that democracy in itself guarantees this. But at least it allows us not to lose sight of freedom and justice in society and to give ourselves up to the arrogance of the powerful. This also means constitutional reforms for us. For this reason, the Mixed-SEL Group will vote in favour of its motion and against the majority motion. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u89	FERRARA Mario (GAL). Mr President, I would like to say - and I am giving a title to my speech - that our duty today and immediately is to change the Constitution. The citizens are asking for this; the highest authorities, first of all the Head of State, have been the interpreters and spokesperson of this need; it is in the government programme as its principal, in my opinion, reason to be. No Constitution can last forever, since no Constitutional Assembly, not even the one composed of the most educated and wise men and women, can escape the conditioning of the times and places: Thomas Jefferson said, adding how every generation should be allowed to reform the Constitution of its own country. When we talk about Jefferson, we are not talking about any person, but about the one who wrote the Declaration of Independence of the United States before the French Revolution: he is the Jefferson of the right to life, freedom and happiness. And then again, since we are talking about the Americans: the American Constitution has been amended 17 times, which means once every about 13 and a half years. The French one, which is ten years younger than ours, has already been changed twice more. But why this need for change? Because there is this need everywhere in the country, which often results in anti-politics, whose most trivial example ends up being the protest for a very high number of parliamentarians. I would like to make a remark on this, since you, Mr President, referred to the subject just now. In France, which has the youngest Constitution, there are 923 parliamentarians against our 913: there are 577 French MPs against our 630s, but there are 346 French senators against our 315 electives. I would also add that in 1958, when they made the Constitution, France had a population lower than ours, then increased because of the attention paid to family policy in that country. But let's go back to the previous reasoning. Why this need for change? Because, as we said before, today times have changed and I would like to exemplify this change with a story that unites us all. We all know, because we will have read it at least once, that Article 1 of the Constitution reads: Italy is a democratic Republic, founded on labour. Well, beyond all the degree thesis that has been made on the subject and beyond to discern in doctrine, the history of Article 1 is very simple. Togliatti, undisputed leader of the then Communist Party, proposed to write: Italy is a Democratic Republic of workers. Let's say euphemistically it was a proposal inspired by a strong Marxist ideology. Moro, who was a member of the Sub-Committee and was already a great mediator at the time, said that perhaps a formula was needed to recall the work anyway. Fanfani overcame him in the race and proposed the current formula, even before Moro elaborated a text. Let's say that in that case probably occurred the first of the reasons why Moro and Fanfani were used the definition, which remained famous in Christian Democracy, of race horses. With this example I would like to represent that the need for mediation at the time (starting with Article 1), dictated by the particular political condition, by a country occupied by the so-called allies, by a government of national unity, by two fundamental ideologies that opposed each other, the communist one and the Catholic-democratic one (even more than the liberal one), led the Constituent to write a Constitution that drew a weak system of government, a farraginous parliamentarism, a system of so extreme democratic guarantee that wounded political continuity, fueled the inability and bureaucratic hypertrophy, favored the proliferation of centres of expenditure and did not adapt, in fear of delegate power, the system of controls and that of sanctions. It is a miracle, the true Italian miracle that we are still a world power; it is the miracle of Italy if today it is still a so-called Western country, despite everything and despite us. Turning back to the reason for the motion we have signed, and which we hope will soon be adopted, we must, we must, we must, it is our right and our duty to change the Constitution, to draw up a new form of State, a new model of government, a different parliamentary structure and - I stress at this point - to make a law that regulates the relationship between institutions and the sovereign people. I would like to talk about the electoral law, because we will have to choose between semi-presidency and presidentialism, between Chancellored and Chancellored strong (and there are many systems to inspire ourselves), but beware, this is Italy: we are not Germans, we are not French, we are not Americans. Our electoral law cannot ignore this notation of responsibility with respect to Italianity. In this regard, I mean that in literature and practice electoral laws are basically two categories: proportional and majority laws. The proportional laws, to give an example to those who listen to us outside this House, are like the current one, with their preferences, and are usually combined with the systems of parliamentary democracy. The majority laws, on the other hand, have as the most important subspecies the single laws (to understand us, it was of this type the law with which we voted until 2001), which are combined in literature with semi-presidency systems. They are said to simplify the deployments. However, Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the 12th and 13th legislatures, we voted with a single system, but the parliamentary groups were more than in the 10th and 11th legislatures; there were even 15 groups in the 13th legislature, many more than those in this Parliament today, eight groups, where we vote with proportional law. In essence, the single law, rather than becoming an instrument of simplification, was an instrument of complication. But why? It is my belief that the peculiarity of Italy, the one for which I invite not to copy the other Constitutions, conditions the electoral system. The possibility of parties to mark themselves separately in regional elections, and then to boast the consent received in the attribution of colleges, is a condition to be carefully assessed. I would now like to make another inscription. Germany, in its Constitution (or rather, in the fundamental law, as the Germans rightly call it), envisages something that would make little sense if not brought back to its history and its post-war condition. Then, having to choose between parliamentary democracy and presidential systems, in fear of an oligarchical drift and in terror of a system that concentrated too much power in the government, the Germans opted for the first, for parliamentary democracy. But in order to avoid a proliferation of parties - of which they were afraid for having experienced it in their history - they provided, in the Constitution, the barrier threshold of 5%. That was their peculiarity. In Italy I believe that the peculiarity is represented by the Regions, and we cannot afford not to take it into account. We have seen too many political parties break up alliances, make local authorities ungovernable in order to be able to boast electoral results and condition the political elections. I believe that this principle, i.e. the study of the relationship between the institutions and the political organization, is of major interest. I think it is our duty today to meditate and work, and therefore wish the Committee well, but we must all decide whether in 1947 Francesco Saverio Nitti was right, wrong or almost right, when he attacked the overwhelming power of parliamentary assemblies and the institute of the Regions, which he said was of strange and harmful nature, of exorbitant cost. Or if he was right, almost right, or wrong Togliatti, that absolute parliamentaryism made the apology. Or, again, Orlando, who recalled the need for a controlling parliament of the government, perhaps the role of proxy of the people to whom so much reference is made in literature today. We must - I say this once again - meditate a lot and work a lot, because the Constitution, said the usual Jefferson, is of the children and not of the fathers. [[Applause from the LAG and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u92	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Government and Parliament are faced with unavoidable choices regarding constitutional reforms and electoral law. Unfortunately, in past legislation, and in particular in the previous one, we have wasted too much precious time because we have not been able to respond to the legitimate demands of the population. The fundamental prerequisite for reform is consensus among the major political forces. But if this consensus really existed, it would have been possible to proceed along the normal routes already provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution. On the other hand, the majority felt that it would take a different path, namely to present a constitutional bill allowing the adoption of constitutional reforms within 18 months, providing for an extraordinary procedure in relation to Article 138. We take note of this choice. We hope, however, that these procedures and the role of the Parliamentary Committee will be supported by the search for shared constitutional reforms. Otherwise, everything will be resolved in total failure, as has already been the case in previous legislation. The adoption of reforms that have the greatest political and parliamentary consensus is the only perspective that we want to support, the Group of Independents-PSI. In any case, we share the role with reference and non-drafting functions, which are intended to be entrusted to the Committee of the 40 which will be set up in Parliament. The composition of the Committee must be fully representative of the Groups and Members present in Parliament. We therefore call for the presence of linguistic minorities, like past experience, to be ensured, in order to be able to represent the views of the regions with special status. Since the linguistic minorities are not present in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in both Chambers, in the motion that we have tabled, as the Group for the Autonomies-PSI, we ask that our representative also be chosen from among the non-members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Form of State and form of Government, overcoming the bicameralism of equality with a reform that leads to a Senate no longer elected that is Chamber of representation of territorial autonomy, reduction of the number of parliamentarians are the fundamental aspects of a process of constitutional revision. The identification of new institutional structures cannot be without the full recognition of the autonomy, their constitutional role, their governance model and their competences. In a reform process, such as what we intend to do as a Parliament, the role of the regions, including special regions, and that of the municipalities, must be enhanced. And we will fight in this direction because respect for territorial autonomy is an opportunity for reference and reflection for the country. The Group for the Autonomies-PSI and linguistic minorities, to whom Article 6 of the Constitution recognises an indispensable obligation to protect, will be able to assume their responsibilities, as always has been in Parliament and in the government of the territory, so that this legislature is finally a constituent legislature. We must put an end to the contradictions and immobility that in previous legislation has prevented the adoption of reformist guidelines in relation to the increasingly serious crisis in our political system. The renewal of the organs and powers of the State is the indispensable condition for the survival of parliamentary democracy. There is a common work of the Senate of the Republic and of the Chamber of Deputies, whose obligations are the identification of shared solutions, through a confrontation without prejudice and logic of partisan. It will follow the debate on the new electoral law, which is essentially parliamentary and which must be part of the reform process and must be consistent with the constitutional model chosen. In order not to risk having to proceed for the third time to the political elections under the current electoral law, this must be repealed or in any case be profoundly modified in order to eliminate the profiles of suspected inconstitutionality and to return to the citizens finally the faculty of choice of their parliamentarians. In this spirit, we have signed the majority motion and we call for a consensus on the motion that we have tabled with the amendments requested by the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u95	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Letta, the vote of the North League on the day of the inauguration of your Government should have been and wanted to be a vote against. We opened her up of credit and we voted in favour of abstaining because in her speech you spoke of constitutional reforms, of the instruments with which to implement them, of reducing the number of parliamentarians and the costs of politics, of overcoming the perfect bicameralism, of the federal Senate, of changing the form of government; all things that - I would like to remind you once again - would have already been in force since 2008 if the party with which you were elected had not promoted no in the 2006 popular referendum on the reform that I had written and that had been approved by the then majority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I do not blame you personally, but I would certainly like to be able to calculate today the economic damage that that rejection has caused to families, businesses and the country. How much did it cost to keep almost twice as many Members for more than five years? How much did it cost to have a Parliament playing ping-pong with laws between branches of Parliament? How much has a government that can't decide but by means of an urgent decree and a vote of confidence? How much has it cost, even in terms of democracy, a Parliament that no longer matters anything but in terms of being here to press a button or express indigestible confidences, which have brought ulcers to Members and senators and to disaster the country? The calculation and judgment on all these costs will be the responsibility of history, but today this premise serves to make everyone understand, even the ordinary citizen, that we are not crazy to be here talking about constitutional reforms when the obvious emergencies seem to be others: the job, the reduction of the tax burden and the growth, just to name a few. I want to make it clear to everyone that if reforms do not lead this state and public administration to cost less, to leave the idlers at home and to be more efficient, not even the good God will be able to reduce the tax burden of this country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Companione]] I would like to make it clear to everyone that if the government and Parliament, by reforming themselves, do not support business activities, freeing them from laces and laces that seem to be created in art only to put them in difficulty, no job will ever be created and businesses will go to waste. I want to know with this intervention that no recovery will ever be possible if not by reforming a state that itself represents the ball to the foot that is sinking the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That's why reforms are not only a desirable thing, but they are a ne-ces-sa-ria thing, indispensable as oxygen for life. You're told by an elected Norther, that is, that part of the country that, running more, needs more oxygen. The president of the Confindustria Squinzi said that the companies of the North are also on the edge of the abyss. And if it sinks the North - I add - it goes down the whole country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Scavone]] These reforms will finally have to give, with a true federalism, the answers to the northern and southern issues. Federalism can represent not only an armistice, but also an alliance between North and South of the country; otherwise everything skips and someone will pay the consequences. I want to take Obama as model: "Today we can," that is, today we can, that I translate into: "Now or never." If you will, President Letta (and I believe you will, having given an opinion in favour of our motion), we too will be of the game making a fundamental contribution to the reform process, which at this point will become of everyone. But it is good to remember also other passages that you have made in your programmatic discourse: fiscal federalism, revision of the fiscal relationship between center and periphery, reorganization of the Regions and the relationship between them, that for us mean complete implementation of fiscal federalism, financial autonomy of income and spending of local authorities and regions, standard costs that finally reward the virtuous and capable [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , respect and valorization of the local autonomy, macro-regions or processes of aggregation and confederative between the Regions, that could favor both the North and the South of the Country, since in the current situation the Regions are too large to be able to administer and too small to be able to legislate. It is a great challenge that we face: we know and we accept it and we are willing to continue our credit opening. If it were otherwise to play, as always, with reforms pretending to do nothing, we would move on to a very hard opposition that would send you home immediately. This government would have already gone home today if we had wanted to, presenting a motion that would address immediately the nerves discovered among the various components of this curious and - let me say - precarious majority. We did not want to bring down the government today because of a sense of responsibility, not towards a system that I personally believe must be burned, but out of respect for the citizens. But our openness of credit and patience have limits. If we are to verify that there is no desire to carry out reforms that create the basis for reducing the tax burden, creating jobs, determining recovery and resurrecting our families and businesses, if it is not possible through federalism to overcome the northern and southern issues, then the North will have to acknowledge that it would be masochistic to continue to belong to a Republic that wants to kill itself and kill its children. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] and will have to take the subsequent decisions. The movement I represent has a motto, dear President Letta: "Before the North!" I would have liked very much to hear the pride of my fellow Members in the districts of the Mezzogiorno today in saying: First the South! Only with the reforms that we are discussing here will they not be antithetical and allow everyone to feel a little better. Dear President Letta, you come from the city of the famous hanging tower, which however has been secured and therefore never falls. Now you're leading a country that's hanging and that's actually gonna fall. So, I hope that with these reforms we will finally secure our country, because otherwise it will come down. Stay up the tower of Pisa, but the country comes down! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Scavone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u98	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my colleagues in the Lanzillotta Group, Della Vedova and Maran have already made it abundantly clear that the Civic Choice Group for Italy attaches too much importance to this issue in order to assume irrital, discounted attitudes, which, if not formally, would certainly be intrinsically dilatory. The fact that we have managed to give life to an exceptional Government, to avoid a ruinous return to the ballot box, to avoid the quicksand that would have sucked us into the underworld of politics cannot allow us to appear in the eyes of the people who look at us like those who dry their foreheads and take breath to start again with bad habits. My colleagues have said this well: we would have preferred that the common and strong political will expressed with such conviction by you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the presentation of the Government to the Chambers allow us to incardinate with the ordinary forms three draft laws on the three qualifying points and on this measure our commitment as a majority in order to quickly re-establish a new trust pact between the sovereign people and its representatives to be submitted then, with a shared decision, to the referendum, freeing us also from those baroque constructions that were justifiable in the attempt of the Bersani Government, but that today are no longer on the agenda. We adhere, however, to the decision taken to take a perhaps more realistic path, probably less agile and straight, in the conviction that it is the very foundation of the raison d'etre of Civic Choice, that our future is given, together with the renewed European protagonism and the commitment on the economic and social front, by the ability to reform politics, Parliament, the Government, the local and regional self-governments in a plan to recompose the indispensable unity that must exist between citizens and institutions. However, in this context, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us not lose sight of the fact that, in accordance with ordinary procedures and a framework of priority majority solidarity, in society and in the institutions, our ideas, which will soon be translated into draft laws on electoral matters, in the key area of justice, in the economic and social field, so that the new pact between the people and Parliament that we are beginning to write today may be enriched by other elements which are not in the name of the'so much worse', the better or the mere protest that - as we have seen - does not even pay in the ballot boxes anymore. Yesterday's vote on the other, that great vacuum of participation recorded, even, in elections in which the citizen is called to choose directly his local government is a silent cry of pain to politics so that it becomes able to resolve the problems that afflict people and communities, it becomes again a place of representation and synthesis of particular interests in a more general common interest and seat of decisions in the interests of all daily and qualitatively authoritative. I come back to say: we hope that we have not celebrated a discounted rite, a liturgy without substance. We know that we are not numerically decisive, Mr President-in-Office of the Council (even yesterday at some meeting we were reminded of this). However, precisely because we are not numerically determining how Civic Choice we feel even more the duty incumbent upon us by participating in this Government and we claim the freedom to stay in it only if and until we see it contradicted, not only in the letter but also in the spirit of the things we do, the true sense of our being there, which is that - even rowing against the current - we have tried to represent in recent months and which we claim today: that of a reforming force committed to reconstruct the reasons for a civil coexistence based on mutual respect, to reform in depth the state and public administration in general, to remove the obstacles that prevent the good governance of public spending. Even the decisions taken today in the European Union show that telling the truth, making painful but useful choices, ultimately pays. We will ensure that the ways and, above all, the times of this partial but significant reform are respected. If this is not the case, we hope that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will confirm what has been said in this House on the day of trust. But be assured that if the spirit in which the reforms were promised by you to the country disappears that day, we, even before you, will draw the necessary consequences. It is with this commitment that we would like to spread in the country so that it has certainty and confidence in the scope of what we are doing, that we will vote in favour of the motion that we have also signed and the others to which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion, renewing with this decision also the confidence that we voted to it at the time of its installation. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u101	CRIMI (M5S). President Letta, today you are announcing the beginning of a constituent phase, of a constituent process. In fact, we are far from that, because today we simply delegate the Government to propose a bill to modify the timing and manner in which - perhaps - the real constituent phase will begin in six months' time. At the end of the complex debate on institutional reforms, we are about to vote on motions that commit the government to presenting a bill. We distinguish, therefore, two aspects: the contents of the motions (which I will address later) and the general system underlying their presentation. On this second point, we believe that the motions that commit the Government on this issue here are in itself inadmissible, as they commit the Government to carrying out a legislative initiative activity, which is already its prerogative, among other things. The bill, subsequently, should then be submitted to the examination of the Chambers in order to be integrated, amended and approved. But, then, why does Parliament and its majority, who seem to have the clear ideas from the reading of the motion on what the content of the government's bill should be, not directly translate these contents into a constitutional bill? That's the question we ask ourselves. Why delegate the constitutional legislative initiative to the government when it could come directly from this House? Why can't it be built directly here, since the majority have clear ideas and in the motion has indicated the clear elements for this bill? We wonder if it is already written: if the bill has not already been written by the Government, which requires only preventive legitimization in the Chambers, thus forming a fake parliamentary initiative. The majority motion seems to sum up a draft law already defined and seems to be written directly by the Government. In fact, you too, Mr Letta, spoke of the so-called Committee of the 40 taking for granted the outcome of the parliamentary vote at this sitting. We are even more convinced that all the words spent on the centrality of Parliament are fictitious: a fake centrality of Parliament that supports in advance the legislative initiatives of the Government. While the country suffers from the economic crisis, we are turning into a spiral of discussions on the path to reform, with a vote to delegate to the government the legislative initiative that will then be the subject of a path in the House that will lead to a vote and - after three months - to another vote and - perhaps - at that point you can start - yes, you understand well: you can start - the path of reforms. We devote ourselves to all this byzantine activity when much more time should be spent on issues that are much closer to citizens, such as citizenship income and initiatives to support small and medium-sized enterprises. We would like a wide-ranging debate - much broader - on the necessary, urgent and indifferent measures to support those who have remained behind; to support those who do not have the resources to deal with this crisis; to offer guarantees of the future to small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent the real productive backbone of the country. We need a much more urgent debate for that country that is most agonizing every day. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is for these reasons that we will not vote for the motions that commit the Government, although we share some of the content. I shall now turn to the content of the motions. First of all, we express our opinion against the establishment of any bicameral special body, committee, convention or commission - whatever it may be called - that subtracts the reforms from the path provided for in the Constitution. It is the will of men and not the cold application of regulatory procedures that completes a path. If there is a real need for reform, change and renewal in this House, there is no need for any forceful procedure to begin quickly: it is enough to carry it forward. The realization of accelerated institutes or regulations only reveals the awareness that, without an obligatory path and the pungole of a deadline (the famous eighteen months), it would hardly come to a conclusion. So, we don't make fun of citizens. Let it be clear that there is no clear desire to carry out those reforms that are so flagrant. The people's consultation of guidelines which is in our motion also responds to the possibility that the confirmed referendum that you propose will not accept the reforms. That could be a much more serious situation. We see in a positive sense, and we will be ready to approve them in the appropriate fora, all proposals aimed at strengthening the scope of popular participation in this reform process. In this sense in the motion Zanda and others we find positive point d) (prevision of the faculty to request the confirmation referendum regardless of the attainment of the deliberative quorums for constitutional reforms), while we find points b) and c) superfluous as manageable with simple regulatory changes of the two Chambers. On the other hand, we do not agree, for the reasons set out in the general debate, with the creation of bodies other than those already existing, confirming the desire for reform to take place in the wake of the constitutional dictation. In the De Petris motion we agree on the points that reaffirm the centrality of the Parliament, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the obligatory examination in certain times of the proposals of law of popular initiative, the introduction of stricter limits on the use of the decree of urgency, the revision of the matters of exclusive competence of the Regions, the abolition of the Provinces and subjection to popular referendum confirmation with separate questions for homogeneity of matter. On this last point, we call for careful consideration. We also believe that a split vote, which we will be asking for expressly, will allow colleagues to consider approving the point of our motion for a resolution which provides for a People's Address Consultation and also for us to be able to vote on the parts of the other motions that we share. To Senator De Petris, regarding the agenda on amendments to the Porcellum law, I represent that this is not a minimum maintenance, because our proposals are a real twist of the current electoral law and respond to all the critical issues raised. We hope, however, that we will soon be able to overcome this barren phase of debate in order to move on to a serious, organic and proper parliamentary forum, a debate which, if really desired, could have an immediate impact on the issues that are known to all about this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u104	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President, we are and will be there. The People of Freedom will participate and will give their maximum, loyal, transparent contribution to this path that begins today. It begins to make sure that the overall functioning of the whole state can be reformed. This is the great bet that we have shared, that we intend to accept and that we intend to pursue with conviction and with a sense of responsibility. Mr President, the Head of State's strong call is true: the credibility of our institutions is at stake here. The anti-politics, the protest against the country system, fomented by certain scandals but also by certain communication that has entered all the homes of the Italians, puts to a hard test the transparency and efficiency of our model State: we cannot afford this! We, who participate in the life of this Parliament and who represent the Italians, represent the guarantee of the functioning of the legislative model and the guarantee of the Commission, cannot lose this bet. Mr President, I would like to remind you - and I am speaking as a parliamentarians convinced - that the path of reform has never failed because of individual Members or because of the House or the Senate: it has failed, and you will know it well, because of the policy that has never, at the appropriate time, found the final points of understanding in order to arrive at reforms that are widely desired and shared at the same time. The Bicameral failed, to which I had the honour of taking part. The path activated in 2006 has failed with a reform approved by majority and rejected by a referendum promoted by the center-left. Negotiations on electoral reform and constitutional reforms failed in 2012. Well, it was the policy that failed. We cannot cry at this point: we must give, at this moment when we have reached the highest point of crisis of our credibility, a blow to the kidneys. We need a shot at the kidneys, we need to know that we have a task that we cannot and must not give up. I would call it, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a 'Bicameraline', a small Bicameral, which will work in a spirit, I hope, of great cooperation in order to exploit and draw inspiration from all that Parliament's work has produced over decades of activity and debate on reforms. There has been a great deal of work, particularly in this area of Parliament; and even with the high level of advice that the experts appointed by the Government will give, I believe that it will be possible to do well and soon. We also accept the bet - we wanted it to be written - of the 18 months. We have accepted the bet to shorten the deadlines currently provided for in Article 138, for the second resolution of constitutional laws after only 60 days and not 90 days. We are giving a serious signal, a shared signal, because the vast majority of Members of this House will share and vote for this path. We also hope that those who do not share this will be able to make a serious contribution to the debate even during work in the Committee and in this House. Mr President, allow me also to make a few remarks on the sidelines of the vote which we shall be expressing with conviction and transparency unanimously. We must proceed - I said at the beginning of my speech - to a liberal revolution of the whole system; then we must also shake about the functioning of the entire public administration. We are asking you for a commitment, Mr President; you have already made it in this House. We must shake the speed, the speed, the transparency of the responses that the public administration must give to the citizens. We ask you for this effort, we ask you for a commitment, including by urgent decree, to activate procedures for simplifying and speeding up the response, administrative controls that take place after the start of the activity. We value the silent assent, making sure that the citizen, within a certain period of time, can know whether his own request, his own question to the State (because the public administration represents the State) has been accepted or not; we value the conferences of the services; we monitor the state of implementation of those liberalizations that we have strongly wanted and voted in this House, which open to the market, open to competition, determine processes of growth of our economy, inserting models of competition. Let us verify and value what has also been done in the previous parliamentary term. Mr President, it is not just the laws that are enough, we all know that they must be implemented, implemented, monitored, verified, the state of implementation, the state of efficiency and the state of exploitation, the result that we have obtained from those laws. So we are asking for this on the occasion of our speech. Let us talk for a moment, Mr President, about the process of reform. You said well: the electoral law must follow the process of constitutional reform. We will assess, vote on the new form of government, we will measure ourselves, I hope, by a large majority; on the basis of the model of the form of government, based on the form of the new parliamentary system, we will find together the best electoral law that fits perfectly with that form of executive. We'll have to do it later. So, that is why I say that we should be careful when we talk about reform of the electoral law even before the adoption of constitutional reform. There is an appeal pending before the Court, we know that, but on this occasion I would like to establish two principles, Mr President. With the perfect bicameral system there is no perfect electoral law, which can guarantee two similar majorities in the House and Senate. On this I believe that we cannot disagree; this is an axiomatic postulate to which we do not escape. In the past we had the "Mattarellum," then the current system called "Porcellum," which gave majorities and executives who at times were able to govern and sometimes not. Let me give you an example: in the event that the agreement on electoral reform had been reached almost in the Senate Commission a few months ago, in the previous legislature, if that agreement had been adopted, Mr President, we would have found, under this bicameral system, two different majorities: one in the House and one in the Senate, a premiere given to the Democratic Party in the Senate as the first party and a premiere given to the 5 Star Movement in the House. That is, to say, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, how we must be very careful; I also say this to my colleagues in the majority who support it, drawing attention to the points concerning the amendment of the electoral law even before the change in the form of government. We do not make a question of it: let us make it a matter of attention. That is why we believe that we must adhere to the call of the Constitutional Court, which has repeatedly said that there is a part of the current law that is unconstitutional, the one that does not provide for a threshold of access to obtain the majority prize. Well, that's our position, open to confrontation. In the confrontation that yesterday there was within the majority, in fact, we have foreseen that within our motion we trace a path of broad sharing of an amendment of the electoral law, if necessary should intervene before the decision of the Constitutional Court, or even after. There is a majority constraint and there is a coalition constraint - I say this to colleagues other than my Group - and I believe that we must also stick to this constraint on the subject of electoral reform. It is a matter of the serenity of your Executive - allow me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - and of the serenity of the work of our majority, not least because I am not happy with the calls and the return to the past, with the return to the past of a law such as the Mattarellum, which provided for the famous figure of the candidate parachuted, that is, of the one who was nominated from the North to colleges of the South, or on the contrary. This is to tell you that even with that law there was no election: there was the appointment of parliamentarians not rooted in the territory candidates in secure colleges depending on which coalition they were part of. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli.]] That's the truth! Let us tell the truth, as is the case, to ensure that the debate is calm and free from infancy. [[Applause from the PdL Group and the Senators Calderoli and Crosio.]] We expect you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to take pride in our interest. Today the European Commissioner for Energy Oettinger said that our country is ungovernable and compared it to Bulgaria and Romania. We are a healthy country, we have a great democracy and we have a healthy constitution, which we will try to change in its Part II to improve the functioning of the country. So, we are proud of this, we are proud of our country and we ask you to claim in Europe our dignity, our authority and the ability to get out of the infringement procedure, having done well at home. Good work, Mr President-in-Office. [[Applause from the PdL Group and the Senators Tremonti and Naccarato. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u107	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I too would like to point out, as President Schifani did just now, that only a few hours ago the European Commission proposed the closure of the infringement procedure which has been imposed on Italy since October 2009 because of the excessive deficits in our public accounts. Our debt is still very high, the economy does not grow, but the closure of the procedure is the first good news after many years: thanks to the Italians burdened by tax, unemployment and the consequences of a crisis whose duration is causing structural damage to the overall system of our society. With the closure of the procedure, Europe asks us not to interrupt the recovery, but to make it more structural, laying the stable foundations for our country and Europe no longer have to live such black times. This debate will end with a vote which does not yet come to the substance of institutional reforms. The motion that the Senators of the Democratic Party will vote and that has been signed by the Groups that support the Letta Government indicates the goal, the way to go, the procedure to follow. We will talk about reforms soon afterwards and we can be sure that it will be a very lively debate on the future of our institutions. The restoration work that Italy is now serving has been compared to the national reconstruction of the last post-war period and, like all historical comparisons, this is also very daring, because the differences are numerous. But between such different facts there is a point of relation. When seventy years ago, after the disaster of the Second World War, the anti-fascist political forces began to set Italy back on track, they soon realized that economic and social revival would lead to nothing without a deeply renewed political and institutional structure. They understood that the work of material and social reconstruction would not bear fruit if it had not been accompanied by that political project that they knew to be in the solid building of the Constitution, in a renewed public administration, in a ruling class that lived up to the problems. Italy needed to equip itself with an institutional architecture and a new political fabric consistent with the challenge of modernization that was being laboriously pursued. This simultaneity, this link between the economic crisis and the institutional crisis, is the common point between now and then, it is the point that we must keep in mind today: the close relationship between the reform of the institutional system and the renewal of the economic system. Today, with the motion that we will shortly approve, Parliament commits the Government and itself to start a solution what Leopoldo Elia called our infinite constitutional transition. In some ways, this long transition, which has accompanied a large part of our republican history, today can come to maturity precisely because of the pressure of the crisis. When it is said that something positive can come from crises, it alludes to this drive, to the strength of reformism and change, without which no great obstacle can be overcome. Just think of Perassi's intuition that, with his agenda in the constituent Assembly, aimed to protect the needs of stability of government action and to avoid degenerations from parliamentarism. From then on, the rationalization of the parliamentary system and its democratic relationship with the Government has remained on the reform agenda; but, alongside it, other maintenance needs of the Constitutional Charter have in the meantime emerged, linking with each other at various levels. Thus, the need to recognise wider margins of autonomy for local authorities, in the face of greater accountability in the stabilisation of public accounts, aimed at the path that started in 2001 and remained unfinished. This is linked to the question of overcoming the bicameralism of equality and the overall reduction of parliamentary representation. And it is from these measures, as well as from the adaptation of the form of state and government and parliamentary regulations, that passes the drive to restart the path of reforms. The crisis of legitimacy of the system of political representation, so visible in the strong abstentionism recorded in the local elections last Sunday, which President Letta recalled just now, is not only the last, heavy price paid for the failed reforms, but is also the poisoned result of the numerous Italian anomalies and the most recent changes suffered by the Constitution material and moral of the country. One of the main political meanings of the exceptional majority that allowed the birth of the Government of President Letta can be precisely the overcoming of some of these anomalies. Today a completely new political space can be opened for institutional and constitutional reforms; a space that for the Democratic Party must include, first of all, the majority of government, but also, with equal dignity, the parliamentary opposition groups. All the more so, it is important to clearly identify the objectives and recognise the levels of connection of each theme, so as to keep together the threads of a sensible and coherent reform path. In this context, the reform of the electoral law, to which President Schifani also referred just now, will be a fundamental step, also for the same holding of the whole process. It is natural - I would say of course - to underline the close connection between the new electoral law and the form that will take the House and the Senate, but it is equally necessary to remember that for every intervention on the current law, that the Democratic Party has never wanted and of which the constitutionality is even doubtful, the political forces will never proceed again with majority blows. Let's repeat it to boredom: the rules of the game are all written together! [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Formigoni and Ruvolo]] . IT WANTS FROM THE BANKS OF THE PD GROUP. Bravo! ZANDA (PD). Reforms of the Constitution and major economic policy decisions need a broad consensus, which goes beyond institutional levels, and a consensus and participation of the people is needed. All major reform processes are born weak and grow badly if they fail to bring the Palace closer to the citizens. Reforms need a stable political majority, Parliament needs a positive spirit, constructive opposition, but that is not enough. It is necessary for policy to be able to show that reforms are necessary and that they really are to be achieved. We must be able to explain: when citizens do not understand or know, it always means that we have not been able to make ourselves understood. [[Applause from Senators Finocchiaro, Sonego and Calderoli]] This is the point of the motion, which confirms the procedure of Article 138 of the Constitution, including special majorities and double reading, with the novelty of the introduction of a narrow committee common between the Constitutional Affairs Committees of the House and Senate, necessary to give equal representation to the two branches of Parliament and unitity to their reference work. This is above all the sense of the reinforced prediction of the referendum and the decision to use totally innovative procedures of public consultation, with a broad involvement of civil society in the debate on reforms, to which it reminded us, in a spirit that I have greatly appreciated here, the motion tabled by the 5 Star Movement. We need a very open parliamentary path, inclusive for anyone who wants to make a serious contribution. The more inclusive we are, the easier we will be able to achieve effectively the ambitious goal we have set ourselves. If the Italians, in fact, were to recognize, at the end of this path, that the political forces were not up to the task they gave themselves, they would not hesitate to tell us in the referendum. It has already happened, Mr President, and it must not happen again. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u108	I'm warning you, with Senator Zanda's explanation of vote, that live television ends.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u110	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u111	AMATI (PD). Mr President, our Constitution, adopted more than sixty years ago by the constituent Assembly with a very large majority, is still strong in the conscience of the citizens, as demonstrated by the referendum confirmation of June 2006, with which presidentialism was strongly and seriously defeated. In the last fifteen years, the Italian community's adherence to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, but the guarantee of its rigidity, has weakened. In other words, it has become too easy to change the constitutional rules, since the election system that had governed our political life for forty-seven years has been abandoned. As you know, the rigid nature of the Constitutional Charter represents, together with the independence of the guarantee bodies, the most robust garrison of democracy. Democratic Constitutions, in fact, recognize and enunciate the principles and values shared by the whole national community. They represent the fundamental element of identity and unity of a nation, which cannot be affected either by the diversity of cultures and political opinions, or by the extemporaneous absolutistic temptations of assemblies, even of elective ones. In a democracy no one, not even the legislator, can feel or, worse, be legibus solutus. I think it is obvious to anyone who is the history of the Italian Constitution (which identifies precisely in the flexibility of the Albertino Statute the legal presupposition of the smooth rise of fascism) and the examination of the solutions adopted by other countries of mature democracy advise to ensure the rigidity of constitutional review procedures. This applies to the German Constitution, the Constitution of Norway and the Constitution of the United States. On the basis of these considerations and on the basis of the evaluation of the method alone, I have decided not to vote in favour of the motion on the start of the reform process. It is a vote on constitutional changes, therefore a vote of conscience because it is on a non-negotiable principle. With regard to Parliament's constitutional centrality, I am not convinced by the chosen revision procedure. The approval of a motion addressed to the Government, which is given the task of presenting to the Chambers by June 2013 a constitutional bill for the approval of constitutional reform, is an extraordinary procedure that clearly exceeds the parliamentary initiative and the ordinary work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There is therefore an overrun of the ordinary and guarantee procedure laid down in Article 138. I am not indifferent to the opposition expressed in a manner defined by so many constitutionalists and important democratic associations, among which I would like to remind the Dossetti Committees for the Constitution, Freedom and Justice, if not now when and the AMPI. For this reason, moreover, on 2 June in Bologna a meeting was organized, under the title "It is not Cosa Yours," to which I joined firmly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u112	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. After the vote on the motions under Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the agendas will be put to the vote, also for the parties not excluded nor absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 31 (text 3). Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Calderoli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 31 (text 3), tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 289 Senators voting 287 Majority 144 Favorable 224 Contrars 59 Absent 4]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Rizzotti and Giro.]] Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 31 (text 3), 44, 46, 47 and 48 I put to the vote motion 44 (text 2), tabled by Senator Zeller and other senators. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 46.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u115	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are asking for the separate vote on the motion tabled by us, in its premises and in points 1), (2) and (3). It also announces the request for an electronic vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u116	In accordance with Rule 102 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, if there are no comments, separate votes will be taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u119	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I would like to ask the authors for clarification: does the request to vote separately mean that points 1), (2) and (3) must be voted separately?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u120	Senator Santangelo, I invite you to explain your request, so that colleagues can better understand what are the points of which you are asking for a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u121	The parties to vote separately are the premises and points (1), (2) and (3). In total, therefore, there are four votes. I repeat my request for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u122	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u125	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask whether it is possible not to vote on point 1 as a whole, because I am personally in favour of the first period, where we are talking about the call for a referendum on the people, but not the following letters.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u128	FALANGA (PdL). In fact, I would like to understand what it means to put the premise of a motion to the vote. I do not understand what it means to approve a premise if that is prodromic of something that comes after. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u129	Senator Crimes, please explain your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u130	It is simply a division into four parts; on the premises you may not vote or approve them. We have made this request, it has been accepted and we therefore ask that the part of the premises be put to the vote, which - I repeat - can also be rejected. No one requested a vote. We would simply like to distinguish the three parts, which I would like to mention in order to clarify. Point 1) concerns the indication of the People's Guide consultation; in point 2) there are indications of the reforms that we are asking for; in point 3) we are asking for everything to be kept in the wake of the constitutional order. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] RUVOLO (PdL). President, what about the government's opinion? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The representative of the Government has already voiced the opposite opinion on the whole motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u131	However, the opinion is against it. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u132	I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the premises of motion No 46 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, except for the paragraph which goes from I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 290 Senators voting 288 Majority 145 Favorables 51 Contrari 219 Absent 18]] The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 31 (text 3), 44, 46, 47 and 48 (president). We shall now proceed to the vote on point 1 of the motion for a resolution No 46. I would ask Minister Quagliariello if the Government confirms the contrary opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u133	Yes, Mr President, I confirm the government's opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u134	We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u135	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of point 1 of the motion No 46 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 289 Senators voting 288 Majority 145 Favorable 52 Contrari 217 Absent 19]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 31 (text 3), 44, 46, 47 and 48. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on point 2 of the motion for a resolution No 46. I would ask Minister Quagliariello if the Government confirms the contrary opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u136	Yes, Mr President, I confirm the government's opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u137	We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u138	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of point 2 of the motion No 46 tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 293 Senators voting 291 Majority 146 Favorable 59 Contrari 212 Absent 20]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 31 (text 3), 44, 46, 47 and 48. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Point 3 of the motion for a resolution No 46 is excluded from the approval of the previous motions and will therefore not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u141	MASTRANGELI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to point out that during the last vote my card did not work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u142	The Presidency takes note of this. You may, however, have the card replaced. Let us turn to the amendments tabled to motion 47. I would remind you that the Government has expressed its opposition to all three amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u145	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, since I have tabled two amendments, three opposing opinions seem to me to be somewhat excessive as an expression of opposition. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Calderoli, you cannot presume to table the amendments alone: there is a third one you may not know. I assure you that there are three amendments and they are distributed. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I did not receive the third amendment at the end of the debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please send Senator Calderoli amendment 47.3. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, in the meantime, so that we usefully fill this space, I would like to make a few comments. We have just voted on motion No 31 (text 3), which I tabled, which has had a favourable outcome. You said at the beginning of the vote that the motions will be voted in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. If we have adopted a motion which specifically refers to the Convention, it seems strange to me that I should be asked to withdraw an amendment providing for the change of the term: 'Committee' by the term: 'Convention'. However, since there has been such a courteous request from President Letta and, precisely so as not to start with an opposition on a subject that must belong to all, I am willing to withdraw the amendments 47.1 and 47.2 tabled by me, but making a point regarding the part of motion No. 47 in which the Government undertakes to submit to the Chambers, by June 2013, a constitutional bill. Frankly, Mr President, I believe that we need a reflection on the part of Parliament - which, however, is not preclusive to our attitude - about wanting to deprive ourselves of the possibility of a legislative initiative, in the sense mentioned by the President-in-Office of the Council in his speech, which called for the centrality of Parliament to set up this Committee. I cannot frankly understand why this could not be a parliamentary initiative and, since the deadline for June 2013 has been set, perhaps even time is wasted compared to an initiative that could start right away in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In order to live quietly, however, I withdraw Amendments 47.1 and 47.2. I would also like to remind you that the motion is an instrument for the Senate to take decisions; to write: "The Government is committed" rather reminds me of an agenda. This strange majority when they write things, should write them a little better and not hastyly. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u146	We thank Senator Calderoli for his lecture on parliamentary law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u149	Barani (GAL). Mr President, since we are referring in motion 47 to the examination of draft laws for the constitutional revision of Titles I, II, III and V and Title IV are missing, while there are draft laws relating to this Title, I did not want to force them to include with my amendment 47.3 a reference also to Title IV, but I have foreseen that the bicameral committee should have, as legal members, also the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate Justice Commissions, precisely to bring their contribution, which is always necessary when such an important revision is made, in order to ensure a rebalancing of powers. I realize that it takes courage to do this. Of course, certain powers, which I believe to be strong, prevent us from putting our hands on Title IV and the way to bypass this forcing that they make us is to foresee in this Committee also the presence of the two Presidents of the Justice Commissions of the Chamber and Senate as members of the law. That is what I was asking for in Amendment 47.3. Therefore, Mr President, following my illustration, I would ask that the Government's opinion be changed. I conclude my speech with a joke; since I feel like a pisan too, don't make me agree with the people of Livorno! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the government representative to comment on Senator Barani's request.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u150	Mr President, the government cannot change its opinion for a simple fact: in this case the Committee would become a Bicameral, where the logic behind it is to approach the Committees of Constitutional Affairs. Therefore, while considering Senator Barani's proposal animated by a collaborative spirit and ensuring that it is taken into account, it would obviously break the agreement reached with the majority groups as well. The opinion therefore remains opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u153	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I accept the commitment and withdraw Amendment 47.3. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u156	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, I asked to speak first, but then I changed my mind because of Senator Barani's speech. Now, however, I would like to know whether we are going to vote on the Zanda and others motion or on the Zanda, Schifani and others motion. I ask, Mr President, only to be able to regulate myself. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u157	To be clear, we are about to vote on the motion tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani, Susta, Ferrara Mario, Zeller, Finocchiaro, Bruno, Martini, Esposito Giuseppe. [[Applause from the PD, SCPI and M5S groups.]] Okay? Are they all or are they missing someone?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u158	Excuse me, Mr President, I want to say something very quietly and calmly. I have asked you for a clarification, and thank you for explaining the names of all the signatories to the motion. Let me remind you that you probably need from that bench not to trigger unnecessary controversy against a legitimate request that I made to you... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u159	Senator Palma, the answer is just as legitimate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u160	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, excuse me, let me finish talking and then you will speak. I said that in the face of a legitimate request that I made to her, that is to know if besides Senator Zanda there was also as a signatory Senator Schifani, she explained to me - and I thank her for this - all the other signatories. I would be grateful, however, Mr President, personally but also as a senator, and I believe on behalf of this House, if you could avoid the controversy, especially after the incidents you have been in with Senator Compagna in recent days. [[Ironic applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u161	Senator Palma, alluding to other things that are foreign to this debate doesn't seem like a class of style.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u162	PALMA (PdL). You don't have to teach me style either! [[Live comments from PD, M5S and SCpI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u165	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, with regard to motion No 47 - and I would like to make this clear in order to avoid any misunderstanding and doubt - we are asking for a split vote, and more precisely for the part that is included in point (a) and then, jointly, for points (b), (c) and (d). I would also ask for a roll-call vote by simultaneous vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u168	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, we call for motion No 47 to be voted on in its entirety. We are not prepared to vote separately. [[Applause from the Pd and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u169	The Assembly must give its opinion on the possibility of voting on the motion for a separate part or in its full version. PALMA (PdL). But the request for a split vote was not accepted. [[Brusio.]] Sorry, just vote for show of hands to decide whether to vote for separate parts or not. Should we read the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u172	Mr Schifani (PdL). Mr President, I too, on behalf of my group, declare that we are opposed to voting separately. I would therefore like to stress that, in view of the statements made by the exponent of the Democratic Party and myself, there is a large majority in favour of this request. [[Comments of the M5S Group. Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u173	Thank you for the clarification, but we are voting by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u174	Formigoni (PdL). But no!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u177	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, if possible, we would always like to be able to vote by simultaneous ballot. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It must be asked every time, because then it must be checked if there is support. SANTANGELO (M5S). But that's how we spend more time. So, we ask, if that's possible... PRESIDENT. Don't worry... SANTANGELO (M5S). No, no, in Italy we need to be quick, Mr President. However, we are calling for a simultaneous vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u178	You may request a simultaneous vote only on the motion, not on the request to vote on the text separately or in full. That is what is provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u180	Sorry, there is no possibility of debate on the subject; if we want to say something we do, but we do.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u181	However, he has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u182	Orellana (M5S). Mr President, we would like to insist on the request to vote on the motion for separate parts in the spirit of being able to achieve greater sharing, not to divide. That was our motivation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u183	The reasons why there is a favourable or contrary voting orientation on the individual parts of the motion have been explained in the explanation of vote, so this has certainly been clarified. However, from the procedural point of view, the subject of the vote is now the request to vote separately. I therefore put to the vote the proposal to vote on motion 47 for separate parts, tabled by Senator Santangelo. It's not approved. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 47, tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 291 Senators voting 289 Majority 145 Favorable 224 Contrars 61 Absent 4]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and LN-Aut groups.]] Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 31 (text 3), 44, 46, 47 and 48
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u186	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, on a point of order. Since Senator Nitto Palma's request has been accepted and you have read all the co-signators of motion No 47, I would be grateful if you would also list the co-signators of motion No 31 (text 3) that I have tabled, so that they may remain in history. [[Applause from the M5S and SCpI groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u187	Senator Calderoli, the co-signators of your motion all belong to the same Group and, therefore, I should make a list of members of your Group. The situation was different before.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u188	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). There is also an outsider, a GAL Galletto: Senator Tremonti. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u189	We confirm that Senator Tremonti is also among the co-signators of his motion. We shall then proceed to the vote on motion No 48 (text 2), on which I ask the representative of the Government to confirm the previous opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u190	I confirm the opposite view.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u191	I would remind you that, following the approval of the previous motions in the premises of motion 48 (text 2) the following words are precluded, in the sixth paragraph, from the following words: "and in compliance with the regulatory framework provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution."
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u194	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am asking for a simultaneous vote. We are also asking for a separate vote on the motion. [[Comments from PD and PdL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u195	Colleagues, please, it is a faculty to ask for a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u196	SANTANGELO (M5S). The first part includes the premises up to and including point 2; the second part includes points 3 and 4, together with all the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u199	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, we have not heard and I ask that the division of the parts of the motion be repeated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Sant'Angelo, can you repeat that?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u200	The first part includes the premises up to and including point 2; the second part includes points 3 and 4, together with all other points.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u201	Senator Santangelo, you refer, however, to the original text of the motion, not to the new text.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u202	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in view of the change made, we withdraw the request for a split vote. [[Comments from PD and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u203	Motion No 48 (text 2) is then voted in full. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 48 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 287 Senators voting 286 Majority 144 Favorables 7 Contrari 277 Absent 2]] The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 31 (text 3), 44, 46, 47 and 48 (president). Senator Nencini withdrew the agenda G.1. We shall now proceed to the discussion of agenda G.2 on which the Government has previously given an opinion. Minister, do you confirm your opinion?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u204	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u205	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G2 agenda. I would remind you that in the third paragraph the words 'in its own parliamentary seats' are precluded. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of agenda G.2 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 286 Senators voting 285 Majority 143 Favorables 52 Contrari 232 Absent 1]] The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 31 (text 3), 44, 46, 47 and 48 (president). Let us turn to agenda G.3 presented by Senator Barani and other senators. Does the Government confirm its previous opinion?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u206	Yes, Mr President, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u209	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I am speaking briefly because this agenda wanted to invite the Government to consider a new amendment to Title V of the Constitution. In fact, President Letta himself explicitly said in his speech that the rules should all be written together. In 2001, that rule was written with only four majority votes, and it would therefore be appropriate for it to be reviewed. One last consideration out loud. Mr President, I would like to commend both Barbara Stella and Luigi Cattel who yesterday were awarded, as silent Italian scientists and researchers, the European Inventor Award, the most important European recognition in scientific matters, proving that local researchers are also good researchers.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u210	Senator Barani, excuse me, but do you insist on voting on the agenda? Barani (GAL). No, Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, we have thus completed the examination of motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u213	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their attention and I would like to thank the Government for the fine words of the opening report, as well as Mr Orlando for the fine words he has spoken to the House when he met the members of the Environment Commission. But words are not enough for us: we follow the facts, because deeds do not lie. As in all advanced democracies, it is useful to put under the magnifying glass those who finance... (Brussio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, a little silence. Please, Senator, I apologise on behalf of this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] NUGNES (M5S). Thank you, President. I said that, as in all advanced democracies, it is useful to put under the magnifying glass those who finance foundations and politicians. This is important in order to better monitor government actions in the environmental, energy, gambling, information, transport and public works fields. A legitimate and particular attention must be paid in this regard to the Fondazione veDrò, the association of Enrico Letta founded in 2005, defined as a think-net, a thinker. Among the sponsors of the Foundation, colleagues, true union of the PD-PdL Government, we have the giants of the game of chance SISAL and Lottomatica; for energy and environment we have ENEL, ENI, Edison; for the transports Motorways for Italy; for the food sector Nestlè. 5.50 p.m. (Nugnes follow). Seven cross-cutting personalities of the Government are part of the Fondazione veDrò: the president of the Council Enrico Letta, the vice-president and minister of the interior Alfano, the minister of the environment Andrea Orlando, that of the infrastructures Lupi, the minister of agriculture De Girolamo, the equal opportunities Idem, the health Beatrice Lorenzin, former ministers like Corrado Passera and several important politicians... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u214	You need to complete the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u215	NUGNES (M5S). ...of PD-PdL-Lega, Civic Choice, such as Polverini, Bernini, Boccia, Carfagna, Dambruoso, the European Parliamentary former minister De Castro, Della Vedova, the leghist Giorgetti, Madia, Melandri, the former minister Patroni Griffi, Ravetto, the president of Friuli Serracchiani; and also the mayor of Florence Matteo Renzi, that of Verona Tosi, that of Naples De Magistris, that of Bari Emiliano, with the illustrious participation of the son of the president of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano; many distinguished journalists such as Curzio Maltese, Filippo Facci, David Poreč and Giuseppe Cruciani, all engaged in a legitimate common political design that disturbs us. The legitimate but for us not acceptable proposal of veDrà regarding energy undoubtedly favours gas and hydrocarbons over renewables and energy saving, in full harmony with the past policies... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u216	Senator Nugnes, the time for late-session speeches is limited, there will be further opportunities. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u219	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Mr President, we have already mentioned Franca Rame this morning. That of Franca Rame was a life spent between civil and political engagement and passion for theatre. It is impossible to retrace all the stages of his life: a woman of culture and charism, who has been able to reconcile art and civil commitment. As well as actress and author, she was also senator of the 15th legislature, as President Grasso reminded us this morning. Of her I want to remember the great courage that prompted her to make public her personal drama, the rape suffered in 1973 by right-wing extremists, who wanted to share with so many men and women in one of her theatrical monologues. A woman who has therefore paid a high price and who has expressed her courage in so many battles for rights; a woman who has experienced the nightmare of kidnapping and the brutality of violence in the darkest years of our recent past. But Franca was this and much more. With her goes one of the women symbol of the world of culture, politics and Italian feminism. Franca Rame leaves us an important legacy; a constant contribution of ideas, values, emotions, which we have the duty to hand over to the new generations. His life, always at the forefront, can comfort and motivate all victims of oppression and violence. Cordoglio and closeness to his son Jacopo and her husband, the Nobel Prize winner Dario Fo, always together in life, social commitment and work. I remember Franca Rame's enthusiasm and sensitive closeness when Dario Fo was recently awarded honorary citizenship to Oleggio, a recognition that, as mayor of the city of Novara in which the master lived for a short period of his childhood, it was natural to attribute him as a reference to his important career, but also to raise awareness of the importance of culture and theater in particular. I think that the love of the theater, to which Franca Rame dedicated her life, must be for us all a reason for reflection. The great Italian school of entertainment and art in the broad sense, in fact, risks being stifled by the crisis of the sector; a heritage of knowledge and traditions recognized at international level that must be supported by politics and institutions. A commitment that Franca, born in a family that had its roots in the theatrical tradition, cultivated with courage, intelligence and great personality. We owe it to her, too. Thank you, Franca. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u220	As Senator Ferrara will recall, this morning the House observed a minute's silence in memory of the missing senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u221	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u223	MUSSINI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of the senators and senators who have still remained (few) on the latest events and decisions that have been taken (and which are serious) on Monday, following the meeting of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the European Union, where a first document has been produced, an articulated declaration of principle in which aspects such as - I quote only a few - the defence of human rights violated in Syria, but also the protection of religious and ethnic minorities against all forms of fundamentalism, and others, are highlighted. A second document, however, quite contrary to these declarations of principle, is the one which contains the renewal of restrictive measures, which paradoxically remain so only to the extent of their economic nature, while those relating to the supply of arms have in fact been withdrawn, with an immediate effect, and postponed with effect from 1 August, in the alternative to a series of verifications. In essence, this embargo is relaxed with the worst formula that could be found. Unanimity has been found on the formula which effectively gives each Member State the right to decide independently on the sale of various weapons and equipment, indicating a few general control measures on the legality of the end user. The timing of these events disturbs us and the way it fits leaves room for a sad observation: the European Union's embargo on Syria expires on 31 May, while the date for the peace conference in Geneva is set for mid-June. Meanwhile, the European Union declares the green light to the Member States, in order to supply weapons to the coalition from 1 August onwards. Now, if the first purpose of the embargo is to exert pressure, in order to induce those who are the subject of this embargo to take better behavior, we do not see how this road map could lead to reflection even one of the parties involved. Thus we see the emergence of yet another chessboard in which the strategic, political and military objectives of the usual actors play, which, gathered in diplomatic circles, are far from the living flesh that pays the price of all this. It is therefore weakening a peace conference and even setting an expiry date for it, where, as Mr Bonino said, it is very clear that the time for negotiation is its guarantee of success. We want to express our desolation in seeing how once again the logic of the strategic opposition of great and medium-sized powers in the Middle East prevail and how Europe misses an important opportunity... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u224	I would ask you to hand over the text of your speech to the Presidency, because we have already given more time than is the case in practice for the speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u225	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u226	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u227	CALIENDO (PdL). Mr President, I must point out that we have introduced the practice of giving an indication of the reason for this intervention in this parliamentary term. Having given as an indication of the reason for my speech the criticism of the way in which we debate today, I think it was appropriate for me to intervene immediately, otherwise there is a union on what the senator intends to say. Apart from this, I voted with conviction on the majority motion, but I believe, Mr President, that it was a mistake for the Conference of the Leaders and the Presidency to have reserved the same time for this debate as for any motion: it was for constitutional reform. I hope that at the forthcoming meetings at which we will have to discuss constitutional reforms, more time will be needed. Mr President, I would also like to urge that at the next meeting of the Conference of Leaders the request for one or more sessions be placed on the agenda, because before the work of the Commissions and the Committee begins, we are debating the issue of constitutional reform, so that each Member may have the opportunity to express his or her opinion or give his or her views without the discipline of the Group, which will work once the Committee is there. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Aiello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u228	Senator Caliendo, your understandable motivations will be represented at the next Conference of Leaders. Today saw a calendar conditioned by the interweaving of the Senate's work and those of the House, with the need of the Government to follow them properly, to make statements and to make replies. Therefore, probably wanting to concentrate everything on a single day has compressed the time of the debate, which, however, on the substance, will certainly be broad and comprehensive and will allow all parliamentarians to participate, with the faculties that must be recognized and guaranteed to all.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u229	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u231	Barani (GAL). Mr President, in the course of my speech on the motions for institutional reforms, I referred to two researchers, who I believe deserve a few more words: Barbara Stella and Luigi Cattel from the Faculty of Chemistry and Pharmaceutical Technology at the University of Turin. These are local researchers - the "Corriere della Sera" writes "the victory of the tricolor" - who, underpaid, gave glory to the country, having received in Amsterdam the European Inventor Award, the most important European recognition given to scientists and researchers. It is the revenge of these researchers, who get up early in the morning and go to bed at sunset, underpaid, who have to face every day even those Italian researchers, more paid, who have chosen to go abroad and who all want back in Italy. By this I mean that it is important that the research funds are greater, but it is also important to remember that with little money you can do great things, as these two researchers have done, which is obviously to be welcomed by the Group I represent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u232	Thank you, Senator Barani.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u233	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-30.ana.u234	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 30 May, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.04 p.m.
