ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 3 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u4	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, before you give your opinion, with due respect, we allow ourselves to ask that with particular and careful attention, if you have not already done so, with the power of unappellability that is recognized to you pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, consider the inadmissibility of amendment 5.50 (text 5), because it is absolutely unrelated to the subject of the debate and for which the prerequisites of necessity and urgency do not exist. An amendment that is in a decree that is already very heterogeneous in itself, which is based on environmental needs, demands, for the execution of the project referred to in Resolution CIPE No 57 of 3 August 2011, that is for the new international connection Turin-Lion (read also TAV) that expenses for compensation works be allowed up to 10 million euros for each year of the three-year period 2013-2015, i.e. an expense of 30 million euros, in a decree that for several weeks is unable to find items of expenditure to solve situations of serious discomfort of the populations that have suffered the earthquake and in which it is considered not to fall within Article 81 of the Constitution the separate collection of the rubble and recycling C&D. To this end, the 5th Commission's opinion of opposition is also mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u5	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u6	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 17.07).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on draft law No 576. The speakers, Senators De Siano and Esposito Stefano, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator De Siano.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commissions meeting 8th and 13th today report on the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 43 of 26 April 2013 laying down urgent provisions for the relaunch of the industrial area of Piombino, to combat environmental emergencies, in favour of the earthquake zones of May 2012 and to accelerate the reconstruction in Abruzzo and the implementation of interventions for Expo 2015. In particular, the paragraph 1 of Article 1 declares the industrial area of Piombino area in a situation of complex industrial crisis for the purposes of the application of Article 27 of Decree-Law No 83 of 2012, which authorizes the Ministry of Economic Development to adopt industrial conversion and redevelopment projects related to specific territories subject to economic recession and loss of employment of national importance, resulting from the crisis of one or more large or medium-sized enterprises with effects on the induced or a specific industrial sector with high specialisation in the territory. The explanatory report underlines that the crisis of the main enterprises in the area is causing a serious situation of occupational suffering for more than 5,500 employees, direct and indirect, with a serious impact on the entire economy of the area. In order to revive the productive activities of the zone of Piombino, the measure under consideration aims to the potenziamento of the harbour infrastructures and to the realization of the road connection between the steel and harbour area and the road axis Cecina-Civitavecchia. For this reason, the paragraph 2 - in order to accelerate the realization of the plan of modernization already previewed from the harbour Town development plan - demands to a decree of the President of the Council the nomination of the President of the Tuscany Region to extraordinary Commissioner for the realization of the necessary participations to the attainment of the harbour and environmental purposes previewed from the aforementioned Town development plan. The resources for the implementation of such participations, also in derogation to eventual different finalizations previewed from the current norm, will be defined through an agreement of framework program between Ministry of the environment, Ministry of Infrastructures, Tuscany Region, Harbour Authority of Piombino and Municipality of Piombino, that it will have to be concluded within 30 days from the entry into force of the decree-law in examination. Payments for the implementation of interventions that are financed by State resources to the Tuscany Region or to the Municipality of Piombino are excluded, for the year 2013, within the limit of 40,7 million euros, from the Stability Pact (Councils 6 and 7). As the technical report points out, the constraints of the Internal Stability Pact remain firm for regional resources and local authorities. Finally, to the aim to allow the realization of the infrastructural participations destined to the harbour area of Piombino, the paragraph 5 establishes that within the 27 May 2013 the CIPE deliberi in order to the relative definitive plan to the breeze of connection, integral part of the Cecina-Civitavecchia highway, united to the schema of additional act to the single convention between ANAS and Società Tirrenica Spa in force, with annex the new financial economic plan reported to the tracts already in exercise (Livorno-Rosignano and Rosignano-San Pietro in Palazzi) and to those already approved from CIPE (Ansedonia-Pescia Romana, Pescia Romana-Tarquinia and Civitavecchia-Tarquinia, in addition to the foretold breeze of Piombino). This economic and financial plan will have to be consistent with the plan relating to the entire work that will also have to be submitted to CIPE and for which the requirements dictated by CIPE itself remain firm with resolutions 78 of 2010 and 85 of 2010 in relation to the total cost of the work and the zeroing of the sub-introduction value. The technical report clarifies that this provision therefore intervenes on the procedure of approval of the tract and does not involve burdens for the public finance, considering that the realization of the Bretella, constituting integral part of the realization of the highway axis Cecina-Civitavecchia, is placed to the concessionary, in accordance with the economic-financial plan total. In particular, Article 2 lays down rules to avoid interruption of the municipal waste collection and management service in the territory of Palermo. Expected the continuation of the conditions of environmental emergency and considered the extraordinary necessity and urgency to avoid the occurrence of continuity solutions in the interventions put in place during the management of the same environmental emergency, it is expected that until 31 December 2013 continue to produce effects the provisions of the order of the President of the Council of Ministers n. 3887 of 9 July 2010, published in the Official Gazette n. 170 of 23 July 2010, limited to some necessary interventions, such as those relating to the completion of the realization and authorization of the so-called sixth tank of the landfill of Bellolampo in the Municipality of Palermo, and, in the more of the full functionality of the aforementioned sixth tank, of special forms of waste management, and the safety of the entire landfill. The related financial charges shall be provided with the resources already provided for the financial coverage of the aforementioned order of the President of the Council of Ministers No 3887 of 2010. Article 3 contains provisions to deal with the environmental emergency in the Campania Region. In particular, in paragraphs 1 and 2 it provides that - in relation to the emergency in the management of the collection and purification plants of Acerra, Marcianise, Naples Nord, Foce Regi Lagni, Cuma and the grilling and derivation plant of Succivo - the provisions of the Order of the President of the Council of Ministers No 4022 of 9 May 2012 continue to produce effect until 31 March 2014; the related charges are provided with the resources already provided for the coverage of the aforementioned order. Paragraph 3 differs by 12 months the term of the appointment, arranged by the President of the Campania Region, of the extraordinary commissioners for the implementation of the interventions provided for by the same decree. Article 4 extends the state of emergency in relation to the seismic vulnerability of the Pavoncelli tunnel, which conducts the water resources of the Apulian aqueduct and refers to a programme agreement between the regions concerned, in agreement with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, after consulting the Apulian Aqueduct SpA, the identification of the subject competent to the sub-introduction in the activities and initiatives aimed at overcoming the critical situation. Article 5 contains provisions aimed at speeding up the implementation of Expo Milano 2015. The letter a) unites the figures of the extraordinary commissioner of the Government with that of the commissioner general of the Exposition. The forecast that established the institutional table for the overall government of regional and supraregional interventions chaired by the President of the Lombardy Region remains unchanged. The new single commissioner, appointed by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, is assigned all the powers and functions already assigned to the Extraordinary Commissioner and all the powers of the Commissioner General, except those referred to in Articles 12 and 13 of the Paris Convention of 22 November 1928 on Universal Exhibitions, which will be identified by a special decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. The single Commissioner may exercise substitute powers to resolve situations or events that hinder the execution of essential and related works, the participation of States and registered bodies or the smooth running of the Expo. Where necessary, he may derogate from the legislation in force by means of an order, within the limits indicated by a resolution of the Council of Ministers, after consulting the President of the Lombardy Region. By 31 May 2013, the single commissioner will have to appoint up to three delegates for the specific functions of guarantee and control of the progress of the works of works strictly functional to the event and to ensure the correct and efficient use of derogations and commissioner powers. The letter b) authorizes Expo 2015 Spa to use the race economies, as well as for the realization of the works, as already provided for by the legislation in force, also - in a subordinate way - for the carrying out of the activities strictly necessary for the management of the Expo. Letter c) extends to the contracts of Expo 2015 Spa the regulatory derogations already provided for in the matter of public contracts in favor of the extraordinary commissioner. The company may also derogate from certain provisions relating to: design levels; custody procedures in the event of bankruptcy of the performer or termination of the contract; use of land and excavation rocks; temporary works. Finally, the company will be able to apply Article 59 of the Code of Public Contracts, in the field of framework contracts, also for works other than maintenance, as well as Article 253, paragraph 20-a, of the same Code (in the matter of automatic exclusion from the invitation to tender of tenders with a percentage of decrease equal to or greater than the threshold of anomaly), also for contracts above the threshold of Community importance and beyond the date of 31 December 2013. These provisions may also apply to contracting stations in respect of certain works strictly functional to the Expo. Letter d) includes the pavilions of the Countries, the artifacts and any other building to be built, connected to Expo 2015, for which there is the obligation to dismount or to dismantle at the end of the event, among the interventions that, pursuant to article 6, paragraph 2, letter b), of the Single Text of the building, can be carried out without any title, after communication of the beginning of the works to the municipal administration. The same buildings shall not be covered by the rules on compliance with the primary energy requirements limit values, the obligation to certify energy and the fulfilment of the minimum transmission requirements. Point (e) sets out provisions to protect the distinctive signs of Expo Milano 2015. Point (f) extends to judgments concerning the measures and acts of the Single Commissioner and the procedures for entrusting the public contracts of Expo 2015 Spa, the special procedural provisions for disputes relating to strategic infrastructure under Article 125 of the Administrative Process Code. Article 6 contains some divergences, extensions and extinctions of terms relating to the measures taken for seismic events of 20 and 29 May 2012, which occurred in the territories of the Municipalities of the provinces of Bologna, Modena, Ferrara, Mantova, Reggio Emilia and Rovigo. The paragraph 1 extends from 31 May 2013 to 31 December 2014 the deadline of the emergency state. Article 7 provides for a series of interventions in favour of the areas of the Abruzzo Region affected by the earthquake of 6 April 2009, using to this end the resources allocated by the CIPE with resolution n. 135 on 21 December 2012. Specifically, paragraphs 1 and 2 are intended to provide assistance to the population affected by the earthquake, paragraph 3 recognizes a contribution to the Municipality of L'Aquila for municipal rentals, paragraph 4 allocates resources for the restoration of the functionality of the prefecture of L'Aquila, finally paragraphs 5 and 6 identify some competences of the special offices for reconstruction. Article 8 lays down rules for the continued removal of the rubble caused by the earthquake of 6 April 2009 in Abruzzo. In particular, paragraphs 1 and 3 lay down provisions to allow the continued use of Firefighters and Armed Forces in the removal of the rubble produced by the earthquake. These bodies can also be used for the demolition of damaged public buildings. Paragraphs 4 and 5 identify the types of waste subject to handling and transport by the National Corps of Firefighters and Armed Forces. Paragraphs 6 and 8 shall contain financial cover rules. Paragraph 7 lays down the modalities by which the Armed Forces continue to contribute to the surveillance and protection services of the territory of the municipalities earthquakes in anti-crime function, in competition with the Police Forces, authorising for 2013 the use of a quota of 135 personnel units. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot fail to stress in my speech the great synergy between the Commissions meeting 8 a and 13 a and the work that Presidents Matteoli and Senator Esposito have done in Marinello on an extremely complex bill. We have worked, as I said, with a strong synergy, with a great spirit of collaboration, also with the representatives of the Government in recent weeks. The measure had a huge complexity, it required deepening: it worked with self-denial and a sense of responsibility. The requests of populations of territories that, within our country, live moments of difficulty are many. You couldn't and you can't give answers to everyone. Bearing in mind the object of the bill, it has been worked to make possible concrete answers to a part of the population for which it was possible to intervene. I once again thank the members of the Commissions 8a and 13a, the rapporteur Stefano Esposito, the Presidents of the two Commissions and the representatives of the Government for their work. [[Applause from Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u9	I call the rapporteur, Senator Esposito Stefano.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u10	Mr President, I would just like to point out that the decree-law under consideration, as the rapporteur has pointed out, had a level of complexity also linked to the fact that it is a child of the previous experience of government and of the previous legislature. However, I believe that it is worthwhile, without going back to the substance of the issues that have been well explained, to mention a few elements. The first, not secondary, which I believe should be taken into account by the House, is that in the end this measure, which has arrived in the Senate, provides more than one and a half billion euros for sensitive situations, emergency situations affecting the lives of hundreds of thousands of Italian citizens. I believe that this is an important element to be attributed to the complicated and laborious work done in these three weeks, which brings us to this House with a document, very modified, very changed, but which, in our opinion, responds better to the requirements of the decree itself. There are some elements of regret, Mr President, which I think it is right to point out to the House. This is a decree that had at the center the earthquake zones of Emilia and L'Aquila and the very complicated events of the industrial crisis of Piombino. Unfortunately, we couldn't do everything. We were able to give a signal to the earthquake zones of Molise, but we were unable to give an answer, which had also been requested, neither to the citizens of Pollino (provinces of Potenza and Cosenza), hit by the 2012 earthquake, which currently still live a situation of seismic swarms, nor to the citizens affected by the earthquake of Umbria. However, I would like these citizens not to feel like a B-series. They weren't for us. Our commitment has been handled in the same way towards everyone. Unfortunately, objective reasons, which moreover did not depend on the Commissions 8a and 13a, have not allowed us to reach the goal that was desired by us, desired by all the members and all the political forces present within the Commissions and shared, in an open way, also by Presidents Matteoli and Marinello. I believe there is room for these issues and these issues not to be forgotten by the House. We have also given answers to another very important issue. While we were discussing this decree, the tragedy of Genoa occurred. I believe that Parliament and the Government can give an immediate response with this decree, in accordance with the commitment made by the Government in the hours immediately following the events. On the chapter of industrial crises, we have also succeeded in integrating the area of Trieste. We have left out other situations that we hope to recover in the next steps. Allow me, Mr President, in conclusion, to thank the offices of the 8th and 13th Commission and the officials who have followed us and who are continuing to follow us in these hours, who have had, not only a great deal of patience, but also a great deal of professionalism. I believe that on occasions like these we should remember the great professionalism of the employees of the Senate structures, without which we probably would not have worked three weeks, but much more. So a thank you, also on behalf of the House, goes above all to them. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Matteoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u11	Thank you, even on behalf of the employees.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u12	Mr President, we in the 5 Star Movement, on the other hand, express an extremely negative opinion, both on the substance and on the method, on the decree-law in question. With our speeches, my colleagues will try to explain why. Although I have a more general approach, I will focus mainly on two points, the Expo of Milan and the industrial area of Piombino. The first thing we want to point out is that there is neither the ability nor the willingness to comply with the time limits and rules laid down by the measures, in the sense that there are prohibitions of extension, derogations are prohibited and then derogations from those prohibitions are waived. These are texts that can't even be read. In fact, we cannot even get out of the police agencies, which are the clear corollary of a situation that has been allowed to degenerate. So, either there is no ability or there is no will to manage things and bring them back into the hive of ordinary management. Among other things, with the excuse of the commissioners, we always go to Plenipotentiaries Commissioners; and this is something that absolutely cannot be accepted. But what is more serious, in our opinion, is that there is no idea of how to deal with an economic model that has failed. Perhaps it has not even been understood why this economic model has failed; yet just think about it to understand that it has in itself the germ of failure. So let's start by saying why it doesn't work. It does not work because it is based on three pillars: endless resources, infinite space, endless possibilities of spilling waste into the ecosystem. (Brusio). If it's possible to be quiet... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please continue, Senator Martelli. MARTELLI (M5S). This, the principle of endless resources, only works in video games: it does not work in the real world. Now let's go a little bit further, as far as Piombino and the Expo of Milan are concerned. These measures only appear to be designed to make the economy grow with GDP in mind. So, we have to say a few things about GDP. GDP does not even measure people's economic well-being, it shows the real and effective well-being of people themselves, because it is a statistical indicator, and every statistical indicator, dropped on the individual, has no meaning. It's the beginning of chicken: there are those who eat two, and I, who don't eat meat, I ate chicken too, look at that. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The second is the problem of employment. We have a profit-based economic system. In a system based on stable profit, nailed to the current situation, automation processes only reduce the need for jobs gradually. Therefore, it must be understood that, in order to create jobs, the economic system must be completely changed or works must be invented that are of no use at all, such as those contained in Law No 576. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Yet it would be enough to make a simple calculation, a simple relationship, a fraction from primary school, i.e. money invested to create jobs out of jobs created. There are always absurd figures: tens of millions to create a job. So, just the simple arithmetic of the base to realize that we could pay people to do nothing and we would also save resources. We should get through this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let's go to the example. There is the case of Milan. For those who do not know, there is an exhibition center, called Fiera Milano Rho, which is new and hosts 5 million visitors a year. The cycle and motorcycle show alone makes 500,000 in a weekend. The Expo is expected to last 25 weeks; 25 times 500,000 what does it do? That's 12.5 million. Great. Then, this exhibition center would be able alone to hold the load that is expected for the Expo. We are talking about creating new infrastructure for this new Expo. The new infrastructure has already been built when the old exhibition centre was built. There is a new railway station, there are interchange parking spaces, there is the dedicated motorway junction. Yet the solution was: we take a million square meters of agricultural land, we buy them from private individuals at 160 euros per square meter (when agricultural land goes to 20, so 8 times as much) and then what do we do? We build pavilions, partly to be dismantled and partly to be dismantled; dismantling is the same as destroying. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So, let's see the convenience of an economic operation that involves the dismantling of a pavilion: I don't know how many people want to buy a exhibition hall, used and disassembled, to be placed in the garden of the house or in the parking lot. It doesn't make sense. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Moreover, there is not even a subsequent project. It was mandatory to present a project on the use of the post Expo area, which was to be deposited on April 25 of this year; there is no trace of it, but of course it's okay. Moreover, the paradox is that this Expo is called "Feeding the Planet." So, feeding the planet by occupying the ground and putting concrete and steel in it... Either you change your diet, or this doesn't seem good for your health. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And now let's talk about the industrial area of Piombino. Here is a factory of an Italian company that has only the name: the property is of Severstal, it is a multinational Russian company. Even the Russians have understood that we cannot make steel and basic steel in Italy without polluting. And it has been understood, moreover, that while polluting and destroying the environment, it is still not possible to make a profit. So much so that there's a commissioner from this firm who's praying for someone to buy it, because they don't know who to give it to. So, we need to redesign and think about redesigning this basic steel production, because it is a capitalism of robbery. If we want to talk about the environment, we must realise the following: the health of the citizen cannot be traded for jobs. Provocation: is an area of more than a million square meters. Well, if we, instead of trying to nail the poor steel worker to his place of work forever, put ourselves, with the resources we want to commit, to depollution, reclamation and renaturalization of the area (which is the evolution of the economy), we would create a lot of jobs, and they would be lasting jobs. But do we really imagine this future for our fellow citizens? We don't. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to add briefly that there is a motorway in this measure which has nothing to do with it and which is opposed by all citizens. It is true that it is fully financed by private individuals, but there is Aurelia, which has four lanes and could easily be converted. So there is a huge waste of resources for buffer measures that are of no use! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caleo.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, the measure before the House, after a long period of work in the Committees on Public Works and the Environment, and effective cooperation, as the rapporteurs, including the Budget Committee, said, is one of the last acts of the Monti Government. Of course, the plurality of the issues addressed, linked to serious environmental, infrastructural and economic critical situations, requires adequate and fast responses from the State. It is in this spirit that the Commissions have moved, trying, through careful and continuous work, to improve the text of the decree, inserting elements of novelty or clarification and proposing solutions that, although in line with what was initially decided by the Government and taking due account of the situation of difficulties in public finances, could really contribute to solving emergencies, in the hope that these same responses are sufficient to heal them, allowing the return to a management no longer emergent, but carried out with the ordinary tools that the system makes available to the institutions and citizens. Allow me to thank the rapporteurs - in particular Senator Esposito - and all the members of the Commission, many of whom, like me, are at their first experience in Parliament. This work of modification and improvement of the text has been made possible thanks also - and above all - to the cycle of hearings held, which allowed the Commissioners to learn from the loud voice of the interested - the governors, the representatives of the Regions Tuscany, Campania, Emilia-Romagna and Veneto and the Mayor of L'Aquila - what were the elements of strength of the text and what, instead, the problematic elements that required further improvements and corrective interventions or the introduction of new cases, since the effective management of the criticalities and emergencies often puts the local administrators to grips with regulatory or financial deficiencies and allows to grasp - and attempt to resolve - the unresolved nodes. (17.39) (Followed by Caleo). For the achievement of this important result was also the will of the new Government, which decided to make the measure its own, to arrive at solutions adapted to the critical issues in the field, even with an effort from an economic and financial point of view that, although not enough to fully satisfy the real needs of the areas in crisis, represents, in this sense, a first but decisive step. It is certain that the territories expected and expect more. In the current situation, however, work in the Commission has produced remarkable results compared to the forecasts on the eve, and we hope that the House will confirm them. At the same time, however, it must be stressed strongly in this House, which in recent years has unfortunately witnessed the use and abuse of the urgent decree, which is felt to be necessary for this custom to give way to an organic planning of interventions. We must draw from this measure useful insights into the future of this country. Inside it there are industrial redevelopment actions and this is a significant and current theme. The industrial conversion and redevelopment project of Piombino, declared a complex industrial crisis area, and the related concrete actions also allow to address the issue of the crisis in the steel sector of this country. Those provided by the measure, unfortunately, are not exhaustive answers, in particular because of the scarcity of resources freed from the constraints of the Stability Pact. Also in this case however, thanks to the work in the Commission and to the availability of the Government, it has been tried to anticipate a path that aims to the complete achievement of the objectives in order to be able to allow the commissioner - and this is the real objective - to identify potential investors for a definitive plan of throw again that sees in the streets, the port and the industrial redevelopment the assets on which to aim. There is a part of the measure dedicated to environmental redevelopment, connected to the conditions of environmental emergency in Campania and Palermo, due to the difficulties of waste management in the two areas, and seismic vulnerability of the Galleria Pavoncelli, which conveys the water resources of the Apulian aqueduct. Commissioner's managements have been extended with the Commissioner's obligation to report to Parliament every six months. Medesima need is recognized with regard to that important and extraordinary international event that is Expo 2015, Senator Martelli: that must be a world showcase for our country. The purpose of this measure is to ensure that the works and activities necessary for the success of the event are carried out quickly. The changes made improve the text of the decree, even if not completely, allowing the commissioner to facilitate the procedures and thus allow this important and, I would say, only manifestation to take off and open to the world a window on our country. Allow me to reflect here: I believe that the appointment is not just about Lombardy. Especially with regard to reception, it is important that all our regions, at least neighbouring ones, are equipped. We are talking about tourism: this must be a good opportunity to show that it is capable of doing so. An essential part of the decree-law is dedicated to the reconstruction of the territories of Eagle and Emilia devastated by earthquakes of April 2009 and May 2012. In the original text of the decree there was a series of extensions, starting from the extension of the state of emergency and the times to access the subsidised financing for the companies and citizens of Emilia-Romagna, Veneto and Lombardy affected by seismic events. And in favor of the Eagle and the municipalities of the crater of the earthquake of 6 April 2009 some measures were planned to facilitate the assistance to the population and the removal of the rubble. Much more important, however, is what has been included, as the rapporteurs recalled, in favour of all these earthquake-torn territories thanks to the continuous work and the constant interest of all parties in the field. Firstly, it is important to highlight the derogation from the Internal Stability Pact for the year 2013 planned for both areas. These resources are necessary for the reconstruction and resumption of activities. For L'Aquila and the municipalities of the crater was then provided the allocation of 1.2 billion euros that we hope will all be sufficient to restore minimum conditions of livability in those territories where, to be honest, errors and underestimates were also committed. Now, however, they need Italy and Italians to start again. According to an evaluation by the Ministry for Territorial Cohesion, EUR 11 billion is said for reconstruction. There are substantial improvements also for Emilia, both from the point of view of support for businesses and the extension of the recruitment of the staff of the municipalities and from the point of view of support for agricultural and livestock farms. These are important signs in a territory vital to the economy of Italy. I would like to remember, moreover, an intervention in favor of Genoa, absolutely necessary, in consequence of the marine left occurred 7 May 2013, in order to restore the efficiency and the operativity of the port of the chief town, let alone all the participations of restoration of competence of the harbour authority of Genoa necessary in order to guarantee the indispensable activities connected to the safeguard of the human life at sea and the safety of the marine navigation. I would like to thank the Government, on behalf of the other representatives of Liguria, but also all the political forces present in Parliament for their sensitivity and for having considered that sad affair a national fact. There is also an intervention regarding the transfer of functions in the field of tourism to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage that seems a necessary reorder to allow cultural assets, which are an element of irreplaceable wealth for our Country, to be worthily valued through elements of tourism promotion and to contribute with the take-off of a strategic sector to the relaunch of our economy. Therefore, industrial and economic revival, reconstruction, environmental redevelopment, valorization of our best energies and traditions: these are all elements present in the decree-law. And they represent an important part, a road map for our country if it wants to get out of the crisis that has long gripped it. This measure also leads us to a reflection on the use of police agencies in derogation from Decree-Law No 59 of 15 May 2012, which reformed Civil Protection, and a different cultural and political approach towards qualified programming to gradually return to normality. It is not possible to govern only with emergent, short-sighted and difficult to control measures. That is why we have included the obligation to report to the relevant ministers and to Parliament what the Commissioners will do, as well as the fulfilment of the Commissioner's duties of transparency. The above themes are essential for our country, beautiful but often mistreated, where the word "emergency" must be replaced with the word "prevention": at all levels, starting from the environmental one (so, from the hydrogeological failure that causes to the territory the disasters of these years) up to an action of strong programming in nerve sectors such as industry. Much depends on how the resources will be used, which will be freed from the long-awaited closure of the excessive deficit procedure. Such resources must be devoted to productive investments, which create good employment and outline a path for the safety of our country. The choices we will make in the coming months will be decisive and we will have to reverse a course. Italy offers us with its beauties, its traditions, its extraordinary assets the opportunity to restart the machine of the economy: an economy where they can virtuously coexist (and here is the node) industry, environment, valorization of territorial and landscape resources and that sees in the territory and in the local autonomy, freed at least in the part of productive investments from the constraint of the Stability Pact, the real engine of development to which we cannot give up. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u15	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u16	Mr President, limited time obliges me to address only two issues contained in this decree-law which, as usual, has become an omnibus measure and which therefore, as such, refers to many important issues such as, for example, the earthquake in Emilia-Romagna. Two legal aspects related to it, I think, have rather general reflections on the legal civilization and the way in which the problems are dealt with in Italy. As you know, unfortunately, as far as reconstruction is concerned, in Modena we stand by the stakes, in the sense that the famous EUR 6 billion that would be allocated by the Cassa depositi e loani on that August night are largely unused, because neither the companies nor the families have applied, or have submitted it to a very limited extent. Why is that? Because - and I turn to the government - after almost a year it has not yet been understood how the mechanism that regulates the use of those 6 billions works. But it's not that I didn't understand it: no one understood it! Today if a citizen or a company goes to the bank to ask for access to this contribution that the banks should use to serve the famous Errani bills, that is to say to pay the bills, it is to have to sign a contract in which the applicant person and his heirs undertake for 25 years to return the sum at the simple request of the bank, which can withdraw at any time from this which considers a financing, just change the legislation or a national regulation. So, is that a contribution? Is that funding? The law says that only the tax credit for the beneficiary, i.e. the citizen, who is applying for the loan, can be discounted. A few months later a Befera circular established that this is not the case, that everything can be passed on to banks and that it would be the bank's tax credit. This circular would have been hired under a law, even if it is not clear, if the banks do not have a tax credit capacity, where they go to take the tax credit. The fact is that we are in June and these knots have not yet been dissolved. I have with me a small manifesto that was shown to the President of the Council when he visited those areas, in which we talk about an incredible mockery of the State to the earthquake victims of Emilia, who, in order to have the contributions must sign a bond that for 25 years obliges them, their heirs and companies to return the money. I appeal to the Government to ask it to solve this problem because the people, the citizens, do not know how much the State compensates for the restructuring work that they have to do, if 100, 80 or 70 percent. The tax credit must also be clarified. I remind my colleagues that in this decree, as in many others, every time you go looking for a cover, this is always found in the famous 6 billion, which run like Mussolini's planes. So, what are we uploading on these six billions? What amounts are we loading? How long is it really left for the earthquake victims? It is urgent to dissolve these regulatory nodes, otherwise it is clear that at the end of the year, out of 6 billion, we will get to pay about 60 or 70 million and next year we will perhaps reach 200 million: they are theoretically allocated resources, but they remain unused. I would also like to focus on a second aspect, and I would like to turn to President Grasso (who will read the report), since he has a particular experience in this area. I recall once again that the legislation of the white list, currently in force, was introduced into the legal system last August and obliges all companies working for reconstruction after the earthquake to register on this list and pass an anti-mafia exam. The anti-Mafia ban takes place on the basis of these assumptions that I remind you for the umpteenth time, because I believe that Parliament must also have confidence that, when the Constitution and democratic guarantees are being bypassed, the results are then devastating, like those that are happening. The prefect of Modena in an interdictative wrote that, as repeatedly reported by doctrine and jurisprudence, the concept of attempt at mafia infiltration (we are to those measures made to prevent the "danger of"), as a sociological and non-legal matrix, is extremely nuanced and differentiated from the investigation carried out by the criminal court, which is lord of the fact, and that the norm (that of the danger) does not require that we find ourselves in the presence of a criminal undertaking, neither does it require proof of the intervention of the mafia occupation, nor is it assumed that the criminal responsibilities at the head of the owners of the suspected undertaking, being sufficient that from the information acquired through the police bodies (not from the judiciary, but from the police), a circumstantial framework that, overall understood, but however plausible, is symptomatic of the danger of any link between the enterprise and organized crime. The prefect continues, then, stating that, considering that, due to constant jurisprudence, anti-mafia protection does not aim to ascertain the responsibilities, but is placed as the form of maximum anticipation of the preventive action, inherent in the function of safety, for which they take importance by law even merely symptomatic and circumstantial facts, the information may be based on facts and events having a symptomatic and inditiary value because they aim at prevention, regardless of concrete investigations in criminal matters. The southern colleagues will tell me that I am not saying anything new, but we in the North were perhaps used to it differently and we thought, as I think, that the fight against the mafia, the camorra and the 'ndrangheta, should not be done on the basis of suspicion, but on concrete facts, very strict and ruthless. Falcone said the suspect was the antechamber of slander. Is there a damage? A capital thing? Is there an intimidation? Is there staffing? We are speaking with the utmost determination. But, written this way, any enterprise can be the object of the interdictive, as happened to a company in Modena with 500 workers who risk to fail for this reason, on the basis of assumptions. Moreover, of course, every prefect is absolutely free to apply as he considers this legislation to be. The other day, in the Commission, an agenda of mine was accepted by the Government with which the Government is committed on three issues. The first commitment is to specify in a better way, when the interdictive measures are taken, what are the concrete and relevant facts, as planned for the municipal councils. I remember that a city council can be dissolved in the presence of concrete and relevant elements that can lead to think that there is a danger of infiltration, not an episodic relationship. I assure you that this is the case: it is sufficient that a company has a relationship with another company with an anti-mafia certificate, but whose owner has a relationship with a person who works in another company who has nothing to do with the first and second that triggers the ban to avoid the "danger of". You can well understand that, like these connections, no one can be sure to incur situations that could cause damage of tens or hundreds of millions of euros precisely in the earthquake zones. I'm talking about a reality that involves the first company in the province of Modena. The State, therefore, must give greater precision, in order to avoid the "danger of" when it intervenes in the preventive phase. Secondly, when the State intervenes, it must put the prefect and the owner of the undertaking in a position to appoint a commissioner, a person of trust for both, who can, at the moment when the existence of the danger actually occurs or the danger is removed because the board of directors is renewed or the employee possibly suspected is removed, let the company work in the meantime, carry out the contacts and be paid. I would remind you that the interdictment prevents those who have made use of the company's work from making payments, thus creating an unemployment problem and preventing the use of the integration fund. Mr President, I would like to point out that we have reached the paradox that, if a company in Mantua, Modenese or Veneto has relations with another company with the anti-mafia certificate - and therefore it is absolutely regular - which, in turn, is "suspected" by, it is given the interdictive measure, while that of the South continues to work because it has the certificate. Therefore, the company that would represent "the link with" will continue to work, unlike the other company in the territory to which every possibility is inhibited. The commitments of the Government are therefore those to be more precise; to allow the company, at the time when it is banned, to continue to exercise its activity using a third person and therefore not to fail and to guarantee employment; finally to ensure that the company, which, on the indication of the prefect, has fulfilled all that has been required of it (it has renewed the board of directors and has removed the causes of the danger of infiltration), can submit an application for the revocation of the interdictive measure. They seem to me to be these three very important aspects, including legal civilization. Parliament should focus on this, calling on the Government to set the stakes by decree-law as quickly as possible - I repeat - for a fight against the mafia, the camorrah and the 'ndrangheta', which serves to strike crime and not to favor it. When you kill healthy companies in the North, I wonder who can then take their place. In this way, we are probably doing organised crime a favor by fighting crime that is not accurate and precise, but based only - as the premises say - on smoky sociological analyses. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u17	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure that this House is preparing to debate is a regulatory instrument to restart an important part of the country. I am referring above all to areas affected by disasters, which are still waiting for effective interventions and adequate resources, or to those areas, such as the Campania region, where we want to speed up the exit from the waste management deficit or, again, speed up the procedures for the Expo in Milan. The measure addresses multiple critical issues that affect different local and national realities. For these reasons, during the process in the Commissions gathered environment and public works, it was possible to address different aspects and points of view, listening to the instances of representative realities such as the ANCI, the Regions and the Municipalities. Thanks also to these important comparisons, Chosen Civics has tabled some amendments to ensure clear interventions and lighten the bureaucratic process, but also to increase controls, asking local authorities to report regularly in Parliament on the respect of time programmes. Many of these proposals, especially on the question of the safety of retraining measures, revolve around the need to derogate from the Internal Stability Pact, which now represents a limit on the functionality and real capacity of local authorities to intervene, especially in particularly sensitive and complex areas, where rapid and unbureaucratic measures are needed. But the derogation from the Stability Pact must also be taken into account for environmental measures which, having the investment feature, can allow for large savings in the future. Consider, for example, hydrogeological interventions. It is a matter of spending now to save much more in the near future. In this scenario is included the agenda G102, presented together with colleagues Di Biagio and De Poli, with which we ask the Government to undertake to prepare measures to allow the derogation from the discipline of the Internal Stability Pact for the expenses incurred by the regions and local authorities for payments related to investments in the prevention and security of the territory and public buildings. One more word on the part of the decree-law concerning the reconstruction of the area of L'Aquila. The management of the emergency and the measures of the past four years, in addition to bringing limited decisive approaches, have defined a complex scenario with substantial pockets of delays and inefficiency. The weakness of the actions planned over the years is also to be found in the confusion of legislation resulting from the overlap of ordinary national, regional legislation with ministerial and municipal measures, with a high level of indeterminate procedures, creating a conflict between bodies and parties; in some cases there has been a real operational impasse. The reconstruction operations of the affected areas continue to be particularly slow, as well as the resources made available in the context of those planned by the CIPE deliberations are not satisfactory in relation to the objectives of the reconstruction. Perhaps there has been talk on several occasions of producing a single text concerning interventions following earthquakes, but at the moment this perspective seems to be still far away. And it is precisely on this point that there is a further agenda that we have presented precisely to ask the Government to take a step forward in the path of management of the Abruzzo emergency and, more generally, seismic emergencies. We are also not entirely satisfied with the way in which the funds for L'Aquila have been found. A billion euros in five years for reconstruction thanks to this bill will be guaranteed by modest but definitive increases in stamp taxes. In our view, it would have been much more appropriate to raise the funds by means of expenditure savings. We are also not satisfied with the inclusion in the measure of aspects that have little to do with the emergency, such as the transfer of skills on tourism to cultural heritage, the forecast of compensatory resources for Piedmont and resources to complete the reconstruction after the earthquake in Molise 12 years ago. These actions are the result of amendments that have partly changed the nature of a measure that the Monti Government had limited to actual emergencies. Of course, the delicacy of the moment and the considerable time lost in this first half of the year for political and institutional reasons require action by way of derogation to give a rapid response to issues with significant repercussions in terms of production, employment and the environment. But it is certainly not a matter of good practice: in this way of operating Civic Choice will try to oppose in the continuation of the legislature. The process of this decree-law has been tribulated, both because of the great expectations and pressures of the local realities involved, and because of the continuous balling between the Government, the Budget Commission and the Commissions of merit in order to reach a text as shared as possible, but respectful at the same time of the constraints caused by the scarcity of resources. This process must also be rationalised in order to avoid wasting time and giving birth to confused regulatory systems. As I have already said in this House on the recent floods in Veneto, it is important to reflect rationally and more coldly on the destination of resources and the consequent tax collection. According to Civic Choice it is crucial that the Government, in reorganizing the system of local taxation on the house and on the local services, avoids, yes, in a senseless and counterproductive way the citizens and the productive activities, but at the same time guarantees sufficient resources for a preventive approach to the hydrogeological failure and, more generally, to build an environment to measure the citizen, to avoid the birth of continuous new emergencies. It is a commitment that must be reiterated today, June 5, World Environment Day. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u19	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u20	Mr President, distinguished colleagues, the draft law under consideration is aimed at converting Decree-Law No 43 of 2013, with urgent provisions for the relaunch of the industrial area of Piombino, to combat environmental emergencies in favour of the earthquake zones of May 2012 and to accelerate the reconstruction in Abruzzo and the implementation of interventions for Expo 2015. In the referee, in the Commissions meeting 8a and 13a, a close work was carried out after the necessary hearings of the competent authorities, which amended, improved and corrected the text of the Decree-Law. The Commission has also dealt with and dealt with problems related to events which have occurred in the blackberries of the approval of the decree; think, for example, of the disaster in the port of Genoa. The decree deals with heterogeneous subjects in territories with totally different dynamics and needs, from Sicily to Lombardy. From the first reading emerges a glimpse of the picture Italy: emergencies to be faced deriving from recent unforeseen events (such as the case of the Eagle and the earthquake of 2012 of the Regions of the Center-North), others from lack of programming, from underestimation of the problems, from the absence of system actions, as in the case of Piombino, Campania and Sicily. With regard to the industrial area of Piombino, it is known that the steel sector is experiencing a serious and profound industrial and employment crisis which has progressively affected not only the sector concerned but also the whole industry. In this sense the urgent actions of throw again of the iron and steel field, requalification and redestination of the area appear indisferable, and this also in a wider picture of redefining of the Italian portualità. As is well known, the second Italian steel plant with more than 2,000 direct employees and as many indirect: it is the situation of Lucchini Spa, whose extraordinary commissioner, appointed by decree of the Minister of Economic Development of 2012, will have to present to the Government the plan of restructuring company by June 22, 2013, as foreseen by the so-called Marzano law. The situation of Mittal Spa, former Magona Spa, with 450 employees, of which more than half already in the integration fund, is equally critical. As I said, the crisis of the main companies in the area, has employment repercussions that are currently estimated at more than 5,500 units; this consequently leads to a serious impact on the entire economy of the area, historically dependent on steel activities, with problems of keeping as well as economic also social. The crisis of system, the absence of programming in the realization of the necessary infrastructural works road, roadways, harbours emerges so in all its drama and places the necessity of the adoption of extraordinary measures, that they are strictly necessary to the throw again of the productive activities of the area. In this context, the recognition of the Piombino area is defined as a complex industrial crisis area. Necessary therefore do not turn off the blast furnaces, unlock the financial resources identified through a special interinstitutional understanding between the interested Ministries, the Region and the Municipality, allow the immediate start of the infrastructural participations previewed from the new harbour plan regulator (already approved), guarantee the maintenance and the potenziamento of the occupational levels, reclaim the site strongly polluted, favor the competitive development of the industrial and harbour context and safeguard the sustainable increase of the area. I would like to stress that the payments for the implementation of the interventions that are borne by state resources in favour of the Tuscany Region and the Municipality of Piombino were excluded in the original forecast of the decree for the year 2013, within the limit of 40,7 million euros, from the Internal Stability Pact. With appropriate work done in the Commission, these sums have been increased in order to allow for the immediateness and expedition in the execution of the works that the appointed commissioner and President of the Region had manifested in the hearing in the Commissions reunited 8a and 13a. In the system of the portualità and the services to return, the requalification of the port of Piombino could constitute a unicum. The possibility to "free" the island of Giglio from Concordia, its transfer to the near port of Piombino, the possible processing of the ferrous material of the ship in a port without tourist and/or passenger shipping, the bestowal in blast furnace, for example, I repeat, could constitute a specificity of Piombino also for the future. With regard to the environmental issue in Sicily, the decree then addresses an emergency that, in my opinion, has now become systemic. It qualifies in all its dramatic evidence in a waste plan which provides in fact only the allocation of increasingly large sites of municipal waste, the absence of separate collection, the absence of treatment, the absence of heat-to-energy, a succession of extensions and nominations that go towards the direction of the announced environmental disaster. It is a disturbing picture what I describe and denounce, which could soon sink this beautiful territory and this Region in a condition similar to that already faced in Campania. In this direction of march, inverse to the correct planning and the solution of the problems, is inserted this normative intervention aimed precisely to resolve the daily, the impellent and the contingent, but complicated the environmental future of the island: I refer to the completion of the realization and authorization of the so-called sixth tank of the landfill of Bellolampo in the Municipality of Palermo. The dramatic absence of a solution to the problem must prompt each of us in this House not to allow the seventh, eighth, perhaps tenth tank for the collection and management of municipal waste to be allowed to continue. At the same time, I would like to see the implementation of a waste plan which does not appear to exist only in words but translates into concrete actions. With regard to the environmental emergency in Campania, register, on the other hand, the move towards its solution, after decades of bad management. In this sense it has its reason to be the extension of the commissionerial effects referred to in the order of the President of the Council of Ministers n. 4022 of 2012, and this in order to avoid the occurrence of continuity solutions in the managements of the collection and purification plants of Acerra, Marcianise, Napoli Nord, Foce Regi Lagni, Cuma and plant of grilling and derivation of Succivo, this until 31 March 2014, except early completion of the procedures for the selection of the entrusted subject of the adaptation and management of the plants. With regard to the extraordinary provisions for Expo Milano 2015, I stress that this event represents an extraordinary opportunity for economic development, for functional redevelopment of the territory, urban planning, for relaunching the European centrality of the area, for global attention, an opportunity that must be fully exploited not only by the Lombardy Region concerned, but by the country system as a whole. In this framework are inserted the norms contained in the decree in question that are aimed to satisfy the particular requirements of the complex organization of the event and the necessity to respect the time set for the development of the Expo, in fulfillment of the international obligations assumed by the Government towards the BIE ( Bureau International des Expositions). By decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, after hearing the President of the Lombardy Region, the Mayor of Milan and the representatives of the local authorities concerned, are set up the bodies for the management of the activities; it is also planned the creation of an institutional table for the government of regional and supraregional interventions, chaired by the President of the Lombardy Region protempore; finally, the criteria of distribution and the modalities of the disbursement of the financing are established. In order to make the procedure more streamlined and simpler, I agree, therefore, with the need to change the governance of the company and to appoint a single commissioner delegate of the Government for Expo 2015, to which all the powers and all the functions already conferred to the extraordinary commissioner delegate of the Government for Expo Milano 2015 and to the commissioner general for the Exposition. Regarding the provisions for the areas affected by the seismic events of May 2012, I would point out that the earthquake that occurred in the regions of the Centre-North, and especially in Emilia-Romagna, has not only struck at the heart an important productive area of our country, but has also made us understand that no territory is free from trauma, that the territories have become fragile, that we must seriously address the issue of the safety of the buildings and of the built, to rethink the theme of the government of the territory and to become aware of the need to face also that of the hydrogeological failure. In this context, it appears necessary to extend the deadline for the end of the state of emergency until 31 December 2014, as well as the extension of the time limits for access to finance and the suspension of the obligations to pay taxes, social security contributions and welfare contributions, as well as the premiums for compulsory insurance. In this context is included the amending activity aimed at allocating more economic resources, hiring staff, increasing the volume of works related to the productive activities in the reconstruction phase. With regard to the provisions to promote reconstruction in Abruzzo, I stress that the earthquake that occurred in this region, which with its violence has mainly affected L'Aquila, has bent a territory, humiliated the art, the ingenuity and the history of a city, has reduced to a pile of rubble what seemed left to posterity as evidence of a correct harmonious urbanization with the territory and the environment. This act of the Government therefore moves in the wake of the continuation of the assistance to the population in the earthquake zones, the maintenance of the right to the contribution to the autonomous accommodation, or of the free assistance to private or public facilities. In addition, the leases provided for in the order of the President of the Council of Ministers No 3769 of 2009 may be extended, subject to the express consent of the owner, to 31 December 2014. With this in mind, the contribution assigned to the Municipality of L'Aquila is also included, pending the reconstruction of the offices intended for office, in order to allow the performance with the maximum efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the institutional functions. I also press in closing emphasize that the bill of conversion of the decree under consideration is necessary occasion in order to regulate and to finance the participations of restoration of the functionalities of the systems of control and management of the naval traffic in the area of the port of Genoa after the recently happened disaster and represents an opportunity in order to refinance the continuation of the public service of marine transport, tied to the increase of the traffic passenger deriving from the approach of the summer period, in respect of the principle of territorial continuity in the area of the Strait of Messina between the peninsula and Sicily. It is also an opportunity to devote additional funding to Molise's earthquake-stricken areas. With regard to taxation on insurance and public compensation, however, I would like to point out what has not been defined and which the Government will have to commit for the future, also and especially with regard to the European Commission: it is necessary to provide for provisions to avoid taxation, both for the purposes of income taxes, and for the purposes of IRAP, compensation and compensation for insurance and public contributions for damage suffered to property, tangible movable property and stocks, limited to the part exceeding the value already deducted in respect of tangible property and movable property and, for stocks, limited to the part exceeding the value entered in the balance sheet. It should be pointed out that the sums collected as compensation in the event of loss or damage of goods must be considered as revenue when referring to productive assets such as stocks; they must be considered as capital gain (or surplus if the revenue is generated at a time after the end of the financial year) when referring to real estate and tangible movable property. This includes active excesses which do not contribute to the formation of taxable income for the purposes of income tax and regional tax on productive activities, including compensation, compensation, contributions or other amounts received in connection with the interruption of business activity following seismic events. I therefore consider it necessary to allow the deduction also for IRAP purposes of losses related to seismic events for the part not covered by compensation and insurance compensation and public contributions, thus assimilating the IRAP discipline to that on income taxes. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u22	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, after the conversion of the decree on public administration debts, we are again faced with a legislative text to be converted into law. Also in this case the surreal events that marked the beginning of the legislature forced us to a controversial process of examination, modifications and approvals of the decree issued on April 26 by the previous Government in limine mortis. This consideration is taken not to justify the possible imperfections or apparent contradictions of the text before the House today, but to highlight how complex the work that all the Commissions and all the Groups (majority and opposition) have had to face has been. In this respect, endless discussions could be opened - on the lines of previous and consolidated debates - on the desirability of the use of the urgent decree and its limitations. But, without resuming such questions (it also re-emerged copiously in the final part of the last legislature), in the case that concerns us it is necessary to emphasize that Decree-Law No. 43 of 2013, as can be seen from its own epigraph, addresses a series of emerging issues, found in our country, completely heterogeneous between them. It is no coincidence that the deepening of the substance has been put back to the joint evaluation of the Commissions meeting 8a and 13a. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] The subjects covered by the decree, the places concerned by the decree, the social, economic and environmental issues are the most diverse and have, among them, the only common denominator in the particular and objective criticality of the same and in the need for urgent (even partial) measures and solutions. Before expressing some substantive judgements on the measures taken, allow me to express my closeness and solidarity with all the administrators of the local authorities who are confronted daily with the problems covered by this decree, apologizing to them for the partial and not fully resolving answers offered with the text today to our examination. These considerations are particularly significant for the municipalities of the earthquake areas; but the text under consideration could only give urgent and limited answers to the financial capacities at the moment available to the Government. And here there is a necessary and inevitable finding on the scarcity of resources that grabs our country and that has a harmful effect on local authorities, depriving the same of any minimum ability to act and to be able to give solutions to the problems of the citizens. In this respect, it is emblematic that the Internal Stability Pact's limits are repeated. All the articles of the decree being converted and much of the amendments have been confronted with the often insurmountable bulwark of the limits set by the Pact. The draft law which we are voting on today has had to take account of this question, seeking a virtuous balance and setting the necessary priorities between the urgent measures proposed by Decree-Law No 43 and the amendments which have been produced so far and the financial requirements arising from them. In this regard, it is good to stress the sense of responsibility of many fellow senators, who wanted to avoid an indecent assault on diligence, involving the extension of the forecasts of the decree and its financial chances to other areas of Italy. If he had succumbed to this temptation (which some have cultivated) the normative text would have become a battlefield for demagogic actions, of which one should do without in times of crisis like the present. Therefore, this is an opportunity to acknowledge colleagues from the PdL Group that they wanted to solve the most complicated issues, giving up individualistic battles out of maximum time. Having said that, the positive aspects of the text that we are now converting into law must be highlighted. First of all, the decree aims to address the crisis in the industrial area of Piombino, promoting the conversion and redevelopment of existing industries. This objective will be even more valuable where the resulting projects should focus on innovation and environmental recovery. Significant and worthy of importance is the infrastructural strategy, aimed to connect the harbour area with the highway axis Cecina-Civitavecchia. Even with all the environmental cautions and the due attention, one could not fail to anticipate and favor such infrastructural work, without which the port would remain deprived of every economic and productive vocation. The decree, as is well known, also deals with the Expo 2015 with provisions aimed at speeding up the realization of the related projects, both with the forecast of a single commissioner, and with the simplification of the contractual procedures. In this connection, further general consideration should be given. In view of the concern about the introduction of new derogations from administrative procedures, the need to have the Expo yards implemented within the planned time frame demonstrates the need for a complete review of all the rules governing the subject matter of public works in Italy. This is the theme of simplification and bureaucracy, which indeed concerns not only public activities but also private companies today at the center of a renewed and shared attention of the Government and its majority. Similar issues are also implied in the articles dedicated to the territories of Emilia and Abruzzo affected by seismic events, for which - in addition to new funding - there is a need to reduce the heavy bureaucratic burdens often placed on ordinary citizens who have not yet enjoyed the financial and tax benefits assumed at the time. Finally, we must mention the waste emergency in Palermo and the environmental emergency in Campania (as well as an amendment dealing with the purifiers of Puglia). Beyond the concrete forecasts contained in Articles 2 and 3 of the decree, it is right to point out that, periodically, the legislator must pose the problem of emergent situations in the field of the environment and that this has involved and involves the continuation of various commissionerial managements. Such exceptional administrative regimes lead to permanent uncertainty and reduce the responsibility of the ruling classes of local authorities, which are in a sort of limbo, which does not allow them to give the right answers to citizens, in the face of increasing and unbearable environmental costs reported in the various local taxes and tariffs. After the experience of this decree, the time has come, as far as waste and purification are concerned, to deepen all the matter, starting a necessary reflection from the forecasts implemented by the environmental code seven years after its entry into force. There are many other issues to discuss, which come from today's decree. For the sake of brevity, however, they must refer to the next weeks and months, limiting themselves, with moderate and limited satisfaction, to the conversion of this text, on which everyone has worked with commitment and dedication. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u23	Mr President, citizens of the Senate, good evening. I wrote this text ten days ago, when I thought that the bill would come to the House, before I ended up in this mischievous molasses which was the process of this measure, and so I read it to you. This is the first time I have spoken in this House and you will forgive me for a brief introduction. At this time, as well as studying and working together with the five-star citizens, I had the opportunity to realize that what I thought when I was out of here is largely true. There are those who have complained because the additional allowance they receive is not enough, there are those who do not have the courage to change, there are those who wave the flag to show and demonstrate their belonging, there are those who come to the Chamber as a member of the Government and do not listen to the speeches, there are those who plan to have a night session in the Commission starting at 8 p.m. and ending at 9.30 p.m. Before I joined the Senate I did my free profession and for me a night session ends not before 2:00 a.m. I do not know how you are used to working, but the terrible and fantastic responsibility that rests on our shoulders should lead us to unravel the problems to the very end, having a vision that is free from the positions that each of us has in this House. A good idea, a good amendment is good beyond those who propose it. But it does not seem to work that way, since the changes tabled by our Group have been rejected. An example was the process in the Commissions meeting 8a and 13a, where the analysis of all the amendments and the subsequent vote took place at a speed that reminded the theater of the absurd. Preconceived positions that raised hands beyond the logic of an amendment. You have stimulated in us a mixture of laughter and anger which eventually exploded in a reference to the responsibilities of those present in the Commission to the exercise of their duty. If you wanted to make us feel useless, well, you were wrong: we are and will be much more determined than you think and we will push you with our proposals, our amendments, with the taste of a cocktail made of anger and humility. A cocktail that will stun you! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] VOICE FROM THE PDL GROUP. Bravo! CIOFFI (M5S). Can the honor and discipline referred to in Article 54 of the Constitution be represented by what is written at the head of some articles of the provision, namely: "By way of derogation from the prohibition of extension or renewal"? What discipline is there in non-compliance with the rules that we have given ourselves? Is the disapplication of the Code of Public Contracts with regard to the works for the realization of Expo 2015 honorable? Deregulation has become a rule in this country. We live in an oxymoron all the time. The word "deroga" and its synonyms appear 6,000 times in the legislative acts of the State and if we add also the exceptions, the "except" and the exclusions, to all the state, regional and implementing laws, we have the monstrous total of 60,000 derogations! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And this, fine citizens of the Senate, seems right to you? How can a citizen live in compliance with the law if the law itself is indigestible and impenetrable? How much does such a tangled skein cost the country system? In Article 4, where we talk about the Galleria Pavoncelli, another force is carried out, incorporating an order from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in a law. In this way the ordinary hierarchy of sources established by our Constitution is subverted and it is removed from the control of the TAR and the Council of State. Translated by the bureaucrat, this means that the people are denied the right of verification and control over an administrative act. It is precisely on the issue of derogations and respect for the legislative hierarchy that we have presented the agenda G105, which we ask the Government to accept. With regard to the specific works of Expo 2015, referred to in Article 5, we want to reiterate here the clear opposition of the Group to an event that has been completely upset in its initial programmatic lines. If the title of the event is to feed the planet, energy for life and was born with the planetary garden project, how is it possible that it became a simple and great building speculation? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] What will happen on Expo soils once the event is over? Why link to the event works such as the metro line M4, which will never see the light in 2015, but perhaps only in 2020? Do we really need many new connecting roads, connected works and remote parking when there are already those of the adjacent Fair? If we're gonna feed the planet, what are we gonna do? We're gonna eat cement? There where the grass was now there is a city, Celentano sang in 1966, and we are still here to glorify the new building. A true fair of vanities this Expo, which brings nothing new to the transformation of Italian society and which appears anachronistic and the daughter of a productive logic that does not in any way reflect the pentastellated vision of the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In 1889 the Expo was held in Paris and for the occasion the Eiffel Tower was built. It was the years of the coal boom, the years in which the great industrial machine moved impetuously on the steps towards a radiant future supported by the use of fossil sources. Man wanted to overcome himself, but communication between human beings was still lacking and fragmented. In that context, the universal exhibition was an extraordinary opportunity to meet and exchange knowledge. It was also the year in which the centenary of the French Revolution fell. It's been almost 130 years, and we're still fossilized in that story. Meanwhile computer science, the web, have radically transformed communications between men and what was a useful event has become a container without more content. The theme of the planetary garden had given new energy and new life to the event. The exchange of experiences and production methods in the field of agriculture reinvigorated the hope of a new future with the return to the ancient. Biodiversity, the seeds found, the focus on that primary sector too long forgotten and neglected had revived the Expo, but lorsignori considered not attractive the agricultural theme and very attractive the post Expo, the valorization in the speculative sense of the soil. And once again in agriculture we have replaced land income by building. What then of the continuous attempt, also given the amendments tabled to this decree, to insert in the decree rules, rules, foreign arguments, in order only to make soon, in order only to satisfy aspects and localistic appetites? Gentlemen, if we could bring back the focus of those who sit in this House on the real problems of people, perhaps we could be quick in the evaluation and approval of the bill, finally bring the system back to normal and do our duty as representatives of the people to the full. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u24	Senator Cioffi, the Citizen President thanks you. But for the time being, as long as our constitution speaks of senators, we must continue to be senators. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and LN-Aut groups.]] She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u25	Mr President, Decree-Law No 43, which will shortly become law, contains, among other provisions, the one concerning the acceleration of reconstruction in Abruzzo after the earthquake of 6 April 2009, which, in addition to causing serious mourning, has created serious difficulties for the affected populations, since, after the emergency phase, which - I would like to remind you - was managed in an exemplary way by the Berlusconi Government, is now facing the most difficult and complex phase, that of architectural and structural reconstruction. In this context, I have tabled two amendments, one in favour of the Eagle and the Crater Municipalities and the other in favour of those Municipalities, outside the crater, which are seriously damaged by the earthquake of April 2009. All this in order to guarantee certain and constant financial resources. In fact, the reconstruction phase, entrusted today to the local authorities and to a commissioner appointed by the government, appears to be slow and somewhat confused. So much so that on 24 April 2013, in the course of the information on the state of the post-seismic reconstruction in Emilia, Lombardia, Veneto and Abruzzo, the minister for territorial cohesion Barca, after having deposited a report of the Civil Protection, has focused in a particular way on the situation in Abruzzo and, in the hope of greater coordination and institutional cooperation, has specified that the total needs in order to complete the reconstruction piles to approximately 11 billion euros and that, in order not to block the participations already begun, the new Government will have to make available a billion in the coming months. I would therefore like to reaffirm the need, as my amendments show, to commit the Government to preparing a chapter of expenditure for the coming years (at least six), which guarantees certain and timely financial resources to make the complex phase of reconstruction as fast as possible. We must make sure - I repeat once again - that the people affected by the earthquake, already so tried, no longer live only of hope, but also of certainties. In this regard, I have also presented two draft laws that promote, respectively, the reconstruction of the Eagle and the municipalities of the crater and those municipalities of the four Provinces of Abruzzo, equally affected by the effects of the strong earthquake of 2009. The commitment that the Government must make for the next few years will be to have a special attention for Abruzzo through specific and exclusive legislative measures, so that we can witness a gradual resumption of the socio-economic fabric of a territory that, even before the earthquake, was already experiencing a period of great crisis and that, after the tragic event, has naturally seen its condition worsen even more. Our region, which has always been devoted to tourism, needs, also in order to counter the moment of crisis so heavy, that not only the largest municipalities, but also those small towns and villages, characteristic especially of the internal and mountain areas of Abruzzo, included in the four Provinces, living in seasonal tourism and that, in addition to giving Abruzzo a beautiful image, give employment and boost to the local economy. I would also like to point out - and I should like to conclude, Mr President - that the Aquila area is now the largest construction site in Europe and that continuous activity supported by certain and constant financial resources can give employment to about 30,000 workers, also from many parts of Italy. This is no small thing, if we look at the data so distressing about unemployment in our country. Accelerating the reconstruction process also means giving Abruzzo and Abruzzo the dignity that such a tragic event has taken away from them. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u26	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u27	Mr President, Senators and Senators, we have done a very intense job in the Commissions and I thank all the members and, in particular, the Presidents and rapporteurs for this. It was an unpredicted job, which began to determine those forms of mutual listening necessary to fully fulfil the function that has been assigned to us, that of being able to intervene in a lively, real, concrete way on measures that are proposed to us, all the more so when a very delicate measure is proposed and with the characteristics of being a measure thought by the old Government and that the current, however, has not been able to fully renew, in the sense of giving, in a delicate situation of scarce resources (to use euphemism) that clear reversal of direction (to give, that is, a mission). We left Piombino and then took an excessive tour of the country, failing to give a clear and clear center of direction and direction. We thought that this center was the dramatic events of the earthquake of Abruzzo, L'Aquila and the municipalities of the crater, and of the earthquake of Emilia-Romagna. These are dramatic events which not only justify but impose exceptional measures. We have seen, in a non-formal way - on this I would return, because even personally I have not come out indifferent because it was an experience on which it is necessary, I believe, also collectively to reason - to very important hearings of women and men representing our country in a first line of problems that, in some cases, are reaching the level of exasperation. I'm thinking about what the mayor of the eagle told us in a serious way. However, we risk not being able to correspond to this extraordinaryness. It can be done in two ways, and I absolutely do not accuse the Commissions, nor the Government, of having done so in a way and, that is, of not having listened. However, it can also be done by putting it in a provision that is now made up of things of both tenor, of everything and the opposite, of emergency and normality. In a situation of little or no resources I do not say that we must fully correspond to what the former minister Barca referred to us (i.e. a spending capacity of around 10 billion), but we cannot fail to have a level of estimate that has a connection with what is necessary. Let no one say that all the proposed interventions are useful and even necessary. There would be no doubt: an earthquake is an earthquake; it is a bearer of mourning and disasters. That's not what we're talking about. I really urge everyone not to use these arguments. Rather, we have the responsibility to intervene in a strong, exceptional and structural way on an emergency identified and shared in terms of solutions and not some palliatives, at the cost of saying no and taking responsibility. Today, for other worthy situations, which can and must find solutions to their problems in the course of our work, we must in this House, which is sovereign, continue the work and take advantage of the positive ideas coming from the Commissions. 18.45 (Following CERVELLINI). It is clear that we have given answers to the events of the Expo and to delays accumulated by previous administrations. Let us say that we have a dream, namely that a large scheduled event should not always use special procedures. There is a strong theme in this regard because it is necessary to be able to plan using ordinary laws, but there is also a theme of transparency with respect to important, important but programmed events that do not fall under the headings "tragedia" or "calamity." In these cases we must operate through the ordinary legislative method. This also applies to the events in Genoa on which a terrible tragedy has recently struck. We should be able to make it a positive and virtuous opportunity to deal with the problems, to give answers and to buffer with interventions to the structures, but it is also necessary to discuss the modalities of safety, the procedures because sometimes certain situations occur also for carelessness, for lack of attention. This practice, which is likely to weigh heavily on the measure, has manifested itself in the course of the emergency waste of Campania and Sicily (in Palermo, in particular) with endless extensions and Commissariats that risk damaging the existing virtuous political actions that should be encouraged and even rewarded because they would make us understand what the right direction is. I mean, you risk putting so much lead on the fragile wings of this decree-law. I believe that this House should not miss the opportunity to continue to improve, as has been done too partially in the Commission, by making choices, otherwise we risk jeopardising the identification of a rational policy of priorities. We are on the eve of, in particular, the members of the 8th Commission, a confrontation with Minister Lupi following his copious report, a confrontation that will surely delight the Commission with public works and transport and the House. However, continuing to devote the few resources available (I refer to before this comparison) practically only to the High speed it is obvious that this will improve more and more, but further splitting our country, divided between High speed and absolute slowness, because this is the really dramatic data, regarding the transports. This is not good at all. Reformist governments don't behave like that. Policies, reform measures tend to bring harmony and unity to the country. The propaganda works are not proper to reformist governments (which, moreover, operate with ordinary laws and in absolute transparency). This is the reform aspect that we must pursue and begin to undertake. This House can therefore continue in one direction or in the opposite direction the work undertaken by the Commissions. The outcome of this work in which the House is sovereign will result and, as far as we are concerned, our judgment. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u29	Madam President, I would like to make a few comments, including on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The decree-law under consideration today, approved by the previous Government, had the task of addressing some emergency situations, primarily of an environmental nature, but which also touched on aspects of a more social and economic nature, such as the 2012 earthquake, the reconstruction in Abruzzo and the relaunch of the industrial area of Piombino, as well as some environmental emergencies, such as the extension of the commissioning of some landfills in Campania and Sicily and the commissioner of the Galleria Pavoncelli, in Puglia. Finally, the interventions for the Expo in Milan 2015. In the course of the discussion have been added other emergencies regarding other territories and, last, the very serious tragedy that has occurred in the port of Genoa. For the truth, the measure in the course of the discussion has become almost an omnibus and I must also point out that often we have gone further, and from the emergency we have then made an overtaking in the assistance. As I have had the opportunity to say today during the examination of the measure at the Commissions, I believe that emergencies must be resolved quickly, and thinking of resolving emergencies after more than ten years gives me some doubt. In any case, the text that came out of the Commissions is articulated, and has tried to respond seriously to the emergencies that were expressed during the hearings. We have also had the opportunity to listen to some Presidents of the Region and various representatives of the Municipalities, in particular the mayors, who have shown us a situation of great drama. These were hearings which, on the one hand, made us aware of the still dramatic situation in the earthquake zones, but, on the other hand, also of the impossibility for our nation to respond with appropriate rules. The hearings, from this point of view, have set out a very bleak picture because even in the face of natural disasters, Parliament has proved itself able to respond with clear, simple and fast rules, but, vice versa, we have had the clear impression - rather than an impression, a certainty - that the rules even hinder reconstruction. The extreme act of the mayor of L'Aquila who returned the tricolor band to the President of the Republic seems to me to express the degree of exasperation that these communities have reached. It has also been said, even though we were already aware of it, that the rules on the Internal Stability Pact are completely inadequate, and that they do not adapt above all to the situation of the small municipalities. This creates an absurd situation, with municipalities having resources and funds allocated, but which in fact cannot spend them, because the rules on the Stability Pact prevent them. If this is really absurd in the case of municipalities operating in normal situations, let us try to imagine ourselves in situations of local authorities operating in the emergency of the earthquake. I have to say that the government has not had a great deal of openness on this, but often a closure to the possibility of derogating from the Internal Stability Pact. I would also like to point out that this was a rather complex and, to some extent, an obstacle course. The members of our Commissions have lived these days with great difficulty, with Commissions convened, disconcerted, postponed, with Commissions waiting for the response of other Commissions. Even today there was the same climate of expectation. However, the examination of the 5th Commission is not complete and there will be a further postponement of the vote until tomorrow. With regard to the continuing opinions of the 5th Commission, which blocked everything, I wonder whether it is necessary to uncomfortable a whole Commission for financial sustainability opinions or whether the opinion of the Accounting Office or the Budget Offices is not sufficient. I believe that technical advice is sufficient and that it is not necessary to convene a Commission every time which, in fact, slows down the work of all the other Commissions. I then thought of the content of that document which we discussed here together with President Letta and which was approved by the House of Deputies to make legislative procedures more streamlined and procedures more effective. I have a clear perception that, in the process of approving this bill, we have followed exactly the opposite procedure. I would therefore not like to see that document which we have approved, which contains concrete rules, clear procedures and which is intended to reduce the costs of policy really, in fact, only words remain and we cannot translate it into action. I would therefore like to make an appeal to President Grasso through those who are now replacing him in this Chamber. We have begun this parliamentary term with the intention of working very hard, of passing the laws quickly and of shortening the time, but unfortunately it seems to me that we are not moving in this direction: the call therefore is to really put in place a different and faster organization, which avoids duplications and passages from one Commission to another and tries to clarify who is competent to debate and decide, which will have to assume its responsibility. The experience lived in the 8th and 13th Commissions was absolutely positive, also for the responsible relationship between majority and opposition: each, in their respective roles, gave its own contribution. The Undersecretary himself, almost always present at the various meetings, pointed out the positiveness of the speeches of the Commissions. Therefore, this constructive and positive contribution has led to a clear improvement in the text. Therefore, there is the will and the will to do and I can say that I have found Commissioners absolutely committed, and that they want to work, even in the evening, offering full availability of their time also to speed up the work. I should also like to thank the rapporteurs, in particular Mr Esposito, who has worked very competently. I believe that this is the place where the costs of politics are really inflated, but where it is possible to intervene with ease and where it is absolutely necessary to do so promptly, and I believe that the contact with the administrators of the earthquake zones clarifies how embarrassing this is for them and how these attitudes are then those that also trigger the episodes of violence and rebellion. And we owe it also to the thousands and thousands of volunteers who have worked to help the affected populations, who have put in place a network of formidable solidarity of which we are all proud, I first coming from Trentino, land always in the front row. I remember that next June 29 will be inaugurated a multipurpose center in Rovereto di Novi, Emilia, which was built entirely by the craftsmen of the Valle di Non, my land, demonstrating that the solidarity network is continuing to go on. Members who have spoken before me have thoroughly examined the text of the Decree-Law, so I will not dwell on aspects that have already been analysed. I will only deal with some of them which have not been touched upon and which relate mainly to particular situations, which have been dealt with in some of the amendments, which I hope will then be adopted by the House and can therefore be implemented. First of all, I would like to highlight the amendment 8.0.500, tabled by the two rapporteurs and approved this morning by the Commissions meeting, which deals with the so-called land and rock excavation, which is also the subject of my own specific legislative initiative (but I think there are also other senators and Members). This is a problem which has been going on for years and which has not yet been resolved. I believe that Ministerial Decree No 161 of 2012 effectively blocked all yards, especially small ones. This is a problem that we absolutely must tackle, especially in the presence of a serious economic crisis that puts craft companies in difficulty. The amendment tabled by Senator Esposito partially solves this problem, limiting the application of Ministerial Decree No 161 to the execution of works subject to integrated environmental authorisation or environmental impact assessment. For the Group For the Autonomies I have tabled a sub-amendment, which will then be put to the vote, which introduces an additional paragraph that provides for the application for small yards under 6,000 cubic meters of the previous regime established by the environmental code, simplifying the whole issue. Moreover, with regard to the amendment tabled and approved by the two Commissions, it also fills the regulatory gaps that are created, thus completing all the legislation. I realize that it is partly removed from the subject of the decree-law, but I think it solves a problem that has been dragging for years and that has created a dramatic situation especially in the building sector. I think that the possibility of dealing with it and solving it today must be taken into account, precisely in order to make a contribution to speeding up legislative processes. It is clear that if it were not approved, the draft law No 402, which I tabled on the subject, would still remain in place, so we will have the opportunity to resume the matter. I believe, however, that the pressing appeal that comes to us from the craft sector and in general also from that of the public administrations and the private ones must be collected today, also because it is not clear why the earthquake zones could be entitled to a derogation on the excavation lands while other areas do not, since the excavated land is the same in Abruzzo, Trentino or Piemonte. I would also like to mention other amendments which I tabled, in particular on 5.0.201, concerning the extension of the time limits for the declaration to the urban building register of rural buildings, especially in mountain areas, where scattered farms are often spread and therefore rural buildings are different, articulated, often scattered throughout the territory even in areas difficult to reach. It is late on the stacking because actually a farm often owns more than one building. Therefore, the request is not to repeal this rule, but vice versa to extend it until, and no later than, 31 December 2013 to give the possibility to all farmers to complete the stages of stacking. This amending proposal, moreover, has been submitted to me by my colleague, Mr Berger, who is particularly aware of this problem in the province of Bolzano. I would also like to express my satisfaction with the proposal on investments in the rail sector, in particular the financing for the quadrupling of the Verona-Fortezza railway section of south access to the Brenner base tunnel. It has been visited by the parliamentarians of the Region these days: it is a work of European importance that assumes a strategic importance not only for the connections between North and South of Europe, but also from the point of view of environmental sustainability. Finally, I have also tabled an amendment in this House containing measures to allow the disposal of biodegradable diapers through the collection circuit provided specifically for by the European Waste Code. In fact, a number of companies that produce this type of diapers are being created, but the impossibility to dispose of them in the appropriate sites of disposal of biodegradable material is leading these companies to bankruptcy, risking really compromising an initiative such as this one which, in my opinion, should be - supported. Finally, let me mention the amendment which provides for the transfer of tourism skills to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, although it has little to do with the issue of the decree-law. In my opinion, the amalgamation of these two important competences for our country is absolutely strategic and goes in the right direction: that of a country like Italy, which has a historical, artistic, cultural, archaeological and architectural heritage of great importance, which must be valued today first for its conservation, but also in a tourist key. We often talk about Italy, about cultural tourism and in this sense the characteristic that distinguishes our tourism from that of the whole world is precisely this. It is absolutely important to invest also in order to increase the period of permanence of tourists in the locality of our country, to enhance all the peculiarities and wealth of which each Region, each country, every single village has, also in order to be able to give strength to the restoration and the restoration of these great testimonies that sometimes today risk to disappear or to be irremediably compromised. I realize that someone who brings an economic sector closer to the cultural sector may appear to be a beast. In fact, I believe, instead, that today we must all set ourselves the objective that culture can also contribute to the economic development and employment of the country and that, above all, culture can also enhance and enrich the tourist offer. In fact, the structures, services, the environment, and sport are important, it is important to diversify the tourist offer as much as possible, but it is equally important to be able to enrich it with history, content and make the tourist know the soul and history of a territory. In this way I believe that we will also give much more perspective to our tourism and perhaps we will also be able to find the resources to restore and preserve our extraordinary heritage. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and M5S and Senator Zin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u30	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u31	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law is a measure of the Monti Government confirmed, in its structure and content, by the Government in office. It is an omnibus decree-law that deals with emergency situations from different content: each article contains a new commissioner or an extension of an existing commissionership or an extension of the statement of the state of emergency of a different event. These extensions of the commissionerial situations contradict the work of the Monti Government itself which, with Decree-Law No. 59 last year, declared that it wanted to impose absolute prohibitions on the extension of the police stations, extending them even to some road works. In order to remove these prohibitions, Parliament had to intervene later. This confirms that concrete action is needed to simplify the procedures of our entire authorization system, to carry out public works and to reconstruct the territory. We need less bureaucracy. We need to simplify the ordinary system so that we do not have to resort to the Commission. Unfortunately, we have to note that, in the end, the Commissioner's management is still being extended in the past situations, such as the management of waste in Palermo and Campania, which are struggling to return to the ordinary regime. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Yet experience should teach that the statements of emergency that have been dragging for years, in fact involve the dereliction of the responsible institutional actors in ordinary ways, such as Municipalities, Provinces and Regions and that above all, given that the police agencies allow to derogate from the rules governing the authorization procedures and public evidence, they favour illegal activities, as emerged in 2010 from the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the activities related to the waste cycle. We welcome the points made in the report on the reporting of the expenditure and activities carried out by the Commissioners, also to keep the Government and Parliament informed of the progress of the interventions in the Commissariat areas. Unfortunately, however, we must note once again that the country is divided into two in waste management: the municipalities of the North have long put in place concrete initiatives and have achieved an excellent quality of service, treating waste as a resource rather than as a waste to be disposed of. This is not the case in the South of the country: Campania, Calabria, Sicily, but also Lazio, are in a chronic waste crisis, with enormous and continuous expenses to the detriment of taxpayers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Nugnes]] Not to mention that the gravity of these situations, and that of Naples is a clear example, has not only compromised for years the fundamental rights of the populations of those territories, exposing them to risks of sanitary and environmental nature, but has also damaged the image of the entire country, creating serious damage to the tourist sector and the general economy. Clearly different is the question of the extension planned for the state of emergency following the earthquake of May 2012, for the distribution of CIPE funding directed to the assistance to earthquake victims of L'Aquila, as well as for the use of the Armed Forces for the removal of the rubble and for the supervision of the earthquakeed Abruzzo territories. The earthquake that hit Abruzzo on 6 April 2009 destroyed the historic centre of L'Aquila, creating considerable damage in all municipalities of the crater, resulting in the fifth most destructive earthquake in Italy in contemporary times. There is still a lot to be done and we must support the affected population in every way, which is losing hope for its future. During the discussion we tabled and supported the amendments which resolve some crucial issues that emerged during the hearings. Regarding the earthquakes in the provinces of Emilia-Romagna, Mantua and Rovigo, affected by the earthquakes of 2012, it is known to all that the method of intermediary of the credit institutions for the payment of taxes and contributions suspended following the emergency, as invented by the Government of the technicians, has left bitter citizens who felt discriminated against other situations of the past where repeated extensions and reductions in percentage of the amounts due to the treasury and the INPS; We therefore welcome the extension of the documentation required for access to soft loans and for the payment of taxes and contributions: it is right to respond to the earthquake-stricken companies who have declared that they want to leave immediately and to remain there, where they have their roots, in their places and in their history. In the context of the hearings held before the Commissions, requests for derogation from the Stability Pact for infrastructure interventions and land restructuring came from all audit entities. However, the Government has stated that it cannot meet them, in view of the strict budgetary rules which Italy is subject to following the excessive deficit procedure. Only in the last few hours has a ceiling of 90 million been granted by way of derogation from the Pact, but only for the local authorities of the earthquake zones, not for the Regions: a positive signal but definitely insufficient: it is the confirmation that the Pact is the most urgent and indifferent issue that the Government must resolve in the Community. In addition to the impossibility to give orders to companies and therefore to support the work, it is unacceptable that, while having the necessary financing, the agencies cannot carry out interventions of prevention against the hydrogeological risk or to rebuild the territory devastated by floods and earthquakes. For this reason too, our Group has abandoned the work of the Commissions as a sign of protest against the Government [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , which for weeks now was unable to give certain answers on the existence of resources to meet the legitimate demands of the earthquake victims. With regard to the recognition of the industrial area of Piombino as an area of complex industrial crisis, I recall the similar strategies adopted by the Monti Government for the industrial area of Taranto, with the aim of requalifying the territory, avoiding the closure of the Ilva - since yesterday commissioner - and allowing the reclamation of the site of national interest. Like Taranto, Piombino also highlights a disastrous environmental situation. Here we want to remember that in similar situations of environmental emergency there are 57 other sites of national interest, mostly located in the North of the country, to which the Government must intervene with concrete answers, to protect the health of the citizens. In this respect, we recognise that the Commission has tabled an amendment for the redevelopment of industrial and port activities and the environmental recovery of Trieste. Therefore, we want to hope - and this is why we have tabled an agenda - that the same solicitude of intervention adopted for Taranto and Piombino will also be used for the redevelopment and environmental reclamation of other sites in industrial crisis situations located in the North. The Lega Nord and Autonomie Group certainly welcomes the provisions of Article 5, which, starting with the single Commissioner, are intended to facilitate the implementation of the measures planned for the Expo. The Expo is seen as a possibility of recovery of our economy also by the new Government. President Letta himself, on the occasion of the programme statements of 29 April, stated that: The Expo is a great opportunity that we must not miss, defining it as a strategic event and stressing that the Expo does not end in 2015, but must have a future. The provisions introduced by Article 5 were requested by the Executive both by the mayor of Milan and by Governor Maroni to succeed in achieving the objective of completing in time the planned infrastructure works, since only two years from the event are missing. Milan's universal exhibition is therefore a real priority. The Government seems willing to resolve some issues that remain open; however, we stress that unfortunately our amendment, tabled also by other Groups, has not been accepted, which asked to exclude from the Stability Pact the expenses incurred by the Municipality, the Province of Milan and the Lombardy Region for the realization of the related works. Moreover, another important amendment of ours was not accepted, which accelerated the procedures for the immediate completion of an important artery of the Lombardy territory, the Lombard Pedemontana, closely connected to the event and absolutely necessary, like many other roads that are missing in the North. There are not only useless works, dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The last question that I would like to raise is that of the very recent and exceptional alluvial events that took place from 16 to 20 May, in the territory of the Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy, Piedmont, Veneto and Trentino Regions, which have produced floods, with significant damage to people and buildings, overflows, landslides and landslides, bringing back the territories affected in the disastrous situation that occurred in 2010: they have been estimated damages for over 600 million euros in a context of the economy already on its knees. With an agenda presented by our Group, we ask the Government to assume its responsibilities and, as in the past for other calamitous events, to have the necessary rules and funding for reconstruction, assistance to the population, compensation for damages and economic recovery. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u32	Senator Rossi Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for someone who is in the first term of office in the Senate, going to the Commission to deal with such a complicated bill was an extraordinary school. But the school lesson, for me working for thirty-five years in business, I must say that President Matteoli, President Marinello, the rapporteur Stefano Esposito, people who really had the opportunity to appreciate, as well as all the offices, who worked in an incredible way on this bill. I have to say, as an entrepreneur, that many of them would like them in a private company, and I have to admit that there are extraordinary people and that maybe very often from outside this is not understood. Then there may be a problem that concerns the number of people or the possibility of reducing the costs of the structure, but this gratification is absolutely due to people who have done a great job. I would also like to remind you that we have worked very well for three weeks with all the realities of majority and opposition. Having said that, I want to dwell first of all on the serious topic of Genoa, which you know and on which, together with my colleagues Caleo and Vattuone of the Democratic Party, we have insisted to introduce the amendment 1.25 (text 2) (then done own from the speakers, and it has been even better), fundamental in order to try to restore is the radar of the port of Genoa, that unfortunately has fallen the night of 7 May (tomorrow will have passed a month from that tragic event) is the pilots that have been destroyed, besides the many intense activities that have been made in the port of Genoa in this period. I must say that it has been a bit difficult moments, in the sense that we have all had to battle a bit, but it seems to me that at least in this phase the Government has managed to hold true to the engagements taken on the port of Genoa, with the harbour authority, with Admiral Angrisano, with the commander of the pilots. For this I would like to thank the Government and I hope that it can move forward, as it does in all its processes. In the case of Genoa it is not so much a matter of giving an economic acknowledgment, as you can imagine: the problematic ones of the port of Genoa amount to hundreds and hundreds of million, if not beyond the billion, but there is the necessity to remain to the pace with Europe, otherwise within a few years, with the increase of the tonnage of the ships, it will have of the grave difficulties. But we will of course have to talk about this elsewhere. However, I would like to make it clear, since we are talking about emergencies, that there is a problem, which was also raised during the hearing at 8 a.m. Commission of Minister Lupi, who has clearly said that it is not true that there is no money: on many occasions there is money, but it has not yet been used, sometimes by the Region and sometimes by other structures. This is a statement that touched us. Very often it is really thought that the problem is only money; instead there is money blocked, which do not therefore give the opportunity to start work and to give work in Italy. This is the first real emergency that Minister Lupi committed himself in the 8th Commission and I greatly appreciated his commitment: he will even ask the regions that keep the figures blocked to dedicate them possibly to another work, provided that he can start immediately and give work in view of the emergency; then let's face these emergencies. Another emergency we faced in the draft law under consideration was the one related to the Expo. A person who lived the 1992 Expo in Genoa tells you this, with an extraordinary project by Renzo Piano. Unlike the Expo, whose pavilions in the so-called island of the Cartuja of Seville, were made of paper rags and cost twenty times more than spent for the show in Genoa and in the end were thrown down and no longer serving anything (long this area remained a wasteland), Renzo Piano gave our city an opportunity. The Expo did not go very well in 1992: there were great controversy and a mayor fell for the Exposition of Genoa; but today, after that Expo, the Aquarium and the City of children and children are the main attractions of the city: they have made Genoa truly a tourist city. That is why I have tabled Amendment No 5,300, which is divided into two points, which are also supported by friends and colleagues from various parties, because they do not cost at all either the government or the regions. It is simply necessary to set up technical tables. One of the two points basically calls for the establishment of technical tables in the areas adjacent to the Lombardy Region. Milan will not be able to have a hotel structure that can receive the tens of millions of people who will arrive for the Expo; we are talking about 20-25 million visitors. So one could think of expanding the hospitality hotel, but in my opinion also of putting it under the same booking, giving possibilities to the surrounding areas, from the mountain, to the lakes, to the sea, over the course of 150-200 kilometers. We ask to create a table, together with CIPE, with the neighbouring regions to try to understand what is the actual hotel capacity (we are careful, because it happens also in Liguria) that occupies the summer periods. There will already be a situation of occupation of the hotels and I really invite you to be very careful about this situation, because if you do not organize the booking well during the Expo, in the summer there will be big problems and maybe they will take advantage of other realities, probably not even in Italy, maybe close. So with Amendment 5,300 I asked first for these technical tables to be set up. At the other point of the amendment, instead, I ask that technical tables be created so that all the Regions of Italy are involved in this huge investment of the country (it is not an investment of Milan or Lombardy). We actually give the regions the opportunity to participate, even in this case at no cost, in a tourist package project to be offered to practically all those who want to arrive from the world. According to Eurisko's data, 71 percent Chinese, 50 percent Russian, 40 percent Canadians will arrive at the Expo. So, I think this should actually be put to the system. I was also very pleased to note that the decree-law speaks precisely of the transfer of the tourism sector to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage (I believe that there is absolutely a strong link), but it is essential that this happens as soon as possible, because in this way we can finally have those who really coordinate all these tourist activities closely linked to the Expo. [[Applause from SCPI and PD groups and Senators Airola and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u34	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u35	Madam President, does Mr Arrigoni think that the Campanians or the Sicilians do not agree with him that the waste emergencies have been and are a huge 20-year disaster? I don't think so, but perhaps what he misses is that the waste emergencies are only part of an accurate industrial plan for the low-cost disposal of hazardous and toxic industrial waste, mainly for the benefit of the North and part of Europe, which began and lasts at least since 1992, when the death of Ilaria Alpi stopped the disposal in North Africa. The examination of Decree-Law No. 43 places us in front of the eternal Italian problem of emergencies. My colleagues do not believe that we do not appreciate speeches about culture, the Ministry, the disposal of diapers, but a decree is born because there is an emergency; this is the instrument that regulates it. The Law of 12 July 2012, n. 100, of conversion of Decree-Law No. 59 of the same year, last July had finally provided clarity on a given Italian confusion, the definition of emergency, precisely an exceptional and unforeseen calamitous event, and the determination of a certain duration, fixed, as a rule, for a period of ninety days, not extendable for more than sixty days. Finally, we said, above all we who have experienced the eternal waste emergencies in Campania and Palermo, now more than adult, that in some ways and in some clothes still last. But here, basically, in Articles 2 and 3 of Decree-Law No. 43, we read: By way of derogation from the prohibition of extension or renewal... pending the continuation of the emergency condition... shall continue to have So yes, it extends: poor Italian language and poor us legislators of laws that we do not respect that are of no use! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why is Italy not able to operate under ordinary conditions? What good is the state of emergency not determined by exceptional calamitous events, if not to derogate from the rules and provisions that we ourselves are here to define? Above all, President, who needs it? Monti once said that only in a state of serious crisis are the populations willing to surrender part of their national sovereignty. This is only the theory of shock economy, the strategy of terror, the application of the liberal theories of Milton Friedman and the Chicago school. It does not matter whether the state of crisis or imminent risk is determined by a calamitous event, such as the Abruzzo earthquake (which after four years, of emergency, alas, has very little) or the most recent one in Emilia, or by a waste crisis or an economic crisis; the important thing is to give the impression of the non-tendability of solutions. It doesn't matter if the solutions, on the contrary, will only be announced and never reached for decades, as in Campania and Palermo or in the construction of the now legendary Galleria Pavoncelli of the Apulian Aqueduct, which traces the biblical times of the Salerno-Reggio Calabria highway. It doesn't matter if these are exceptional events, such as those of Expo 2015, that could have found their natural and right place in an ordinary management of an event, yes of global scope - who denies it and why not? - but for which there should not necessarily be an exceptional regime of rules and derogations, even above the threshold, and of extraordinary management in order to realize even roads, highways, metropolitan lines, which, I think, have nothing exceptional. As is well known, the Chicago school theory teaches us that only by placing individuals in a state of inevitable stress and imminence can one pursue the aim of imposing on them the proposed solution as the only possible, inevitable, unavoidable, to be implemented quickly, overstepping rules, limits and laws, to the detriment of many and in favor of few; few or null controls; few or none rules. But we scroll with order the decree and we read: " (...) by way of derogation to any different finalizations provided for by the current legislation (...)" and later: The Commissioner may, by way of derogation from the legislation in force by means of an order and then: to resolve situations or events hindering the implementation of the works. It is also expected that the regulatory derogations in the field of public contracts will apply directly to contracts for works, services and supplies..................................................................................................................................................................................... Or, as far as waste management is concerned, there is talk of derogations from existing urban planning instruments, derogation from the Single Environmental Text, derogation from specific environmental, landscape, territorial, planning and sanitation laws and regulations, derogation from environmental impact assessment and relevant regional legislation. To do what? To open landfills and build extremely impacting plants for the territories. But what does "derogation" mean? "Derogato" means, in the Italian language, differences, partial or total, from what is laid down in a law or regulation. What are the rules then? What are they for? The rules, gentlemen, are important; the rules serve to protect the law. Ultimately, therefore, the derogation from the rule means that certain rights of some will not be protected for the benefit of certain others, indisputably. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In the Commission, however, we all voted against our amendments. For example, when we asked for a road or a metro line to be implemented according to the rules and rules, they asked us: Are you against the subway? We said no: it is because the achievements of the metropolitans follow the rules, because if they are done by way of derogation from the contracts they are dangerous and uncertain. We asked that at least the rule that this derogation should take place once should be accepted; no: rejected. We then asked that the audit procedure of the Court of Auditors, which supervises the expenditure of public money, should not be baffled by simplification or impediments: rejected. We have been rejected by the amendment calling for the construction of composting sites, the construction of selection and recovery plants and the achievement of separate collection levels in line with the regulatory plan: rejected. Because then it is known that, within a few years, that landfill will also be full and, if you do not do otherwise, you will have to open another one. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The Government has said that the decree has been improved thanks to the work of the Commission: it is not true, it has been worse, because inside this decree it has been put in everything, and the Government has moved in line with the previous Governments of the last twenty years. Not in line with the Monti Government, absolutely not: this is an old practice, which has been established, to proceed with decrees-laws to expel Parliament. And so it was, and amendments have been adopted that are outside the decree and do not have any urgency value. But, gentlemen, what we want to tell you is that the country looks at you and, with the 5 Star Movement inside, looks at you more closely. [[Extended applause from the M5S Group. Some Senators of the M5S Group stand up. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so. [[Applause from the M5S Group continues.]] Can you listen to the other senators? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Please, Senator Mirabelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u37	Madam President, I believe, like many others, as the rapporteurs have rightly said, as the leader in the Caleo Environment Commission has said, that this is an important and necessary decree, which addresses emergencies linked to the dramatic consequences of certain natural events. But it is also a decree that addresses, unfortunately as emergencies, but necessarily as emergencies, some opportunities and opportunities for development and growth that this country cannot miss. I am thinking in particular of the issue of the Expo. I want to intervene on this, because I have heard things that - frankly - do not correspond to the reality of the facts. First of all, I would like to say that, even on Expo, but overall, I find that on this decree, thanks to the work of the Commission and the commitment of all the Commissioners, there has been an important work, which has led to a significant improvement of the legislation. Maybe more could be done on Expo, but we are glad that the Government's commitment to do more in the next steps, even if, even on this, the measure has greatly improved. Unfortunately, on Expo, the Commissioner's management was necessary. Unfortunately, I am saying this because I do not think anyone wanted to be in charge. I believe that no one wanted the derogation and I think that this issue also raises a question: how to guarantee speed to the contracts without having to go away every time in order to ensure that the commitments made are speedy. It is necessary because we have made commitments, first of all with the international community, with the BIE, with those who entrusted us with this extraordinary international exhibition, that Italy has earned with great effort: in 2015, 130 countries will come to Milan and will build and set up at their expense the pavilions in the Expo area. Those pavilions will then be disassembled, but they will bring a great heritage of knowledge and intelligence to our country. Above all, the Expo will be a great opportunity for our country, as has already been said here by President Letta and Minister Giovannini: the Expo can be a great opportunity to relaunch the development and growth of this country. We are talking about the construction of jobs. Citizens ( Turning to the Senators of the M5S Group), I tell you with great serenity, reason: see that thinking of the Expo as a speculation makes you deviate. The Expo is not speculation. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. No! MIRABELLI (PD). I'll show you. First of all, there is an important issue, which concerns the planet, which concerns the future. In 2015, when the world will have to reflect on the new patterns of consumption and growth, Milan - our country - will become the center of this work, the reference point of this discussion. This is an important point. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] I'm sorry, but look, I don't see speculation in this. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. No! MIRABELLI (PD). Well, now if it's speculation to think that in our country... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please! Senator Mirabelli, move on. MIRABELLI (PD). There is a great opportunity to enhance a sector such as agri-food, where in our country there is excellence, and it is a great opportunity for tourism. And then, excuse me: what cement and what pollution? I don't know what you're reading. I simply know that the Expo will not leave us the Eiffel Tower: it will leave in Milan two metropolitan lines, that is, the possibility to move without using the machine and without polluting. It will leave new railway stops. Iron: the care of iron to avoid pollution. This will leave. He will leave correspondence parking spaces in order to leave the car and not enter Milan, avoiding polluting Milan and the hinterland: this will leave. I don't understand. I repeat: I don't understand. All pavilions will be built according to strict criteria, which must ensure the sustainability of everything. There will be new waterways, and in the end - it is true - there will be a project, we hope a great public service; but 70% of the area used by the Expo - it is already decided - will be a park. In the farmhouse there will be the museum of nutrition and there will be the center for research on these things. And then, in a food research center and in all this there is an idea of development that looks at sustainability, which can make Italy an excellence on these issues. I think there must be this awareness. This is the real idea of sustainable development: new patterns of consumption, food health. On these things we will measure ourselves and we will do at the Expo, concretely. Why don't you want to be there, you guys talking about these things? [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] This is the concreteness of the things that can be done. This is the excellence that can be built for our country. This is the protagonism of those who want to build a model of different development of consumption, nutrition, health and nutrition. This is concreteness, not words, and I think it would be nice and useful if, instead of using excuses, we were all on this front and we all made an effective contribution so that this opportunity was not really lost. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u38	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the afternoon I listened to a number of speeches, and I have to say that many of the comments I have heard are of absolute common sense, which is acceptable, even when they criticized the measure because it could probably contain other ideas that unfortunately could not be welcomed. I have also heard speeches criticising the measure from another point of view. These, to tell you the truth, I can't share them for a very simple reason. Mr President, the issue is always the same: there are those who mean development and progress as an increase or an opportunity to improve living, economic, social and cultural conditions and there are those who have a completely different view. I respect you, but I don't share you. We must understand that this measure has had to impact with a number of difficulties. It is always a difficult, difficult and ungrateful task to try to give priority to emerging situations, to determine what is emerging, what is urgent, what is dramatically distressing for the country or the territory, what is and what is less. We sometimes have to consider the very concept of emergency: the emergency can be something that happens immediately, momentarily and in a sudden way, while sometimes it can be emergent to give answers compared to situations that are more dated over time but that continue to be emergent because the state or institutions as a whole have not been able to give concrete answers in real time. Appreciate these circumstances, we must consider that the Government - the current Government - has, in our opinion, worked well, making a significant effort in the direction of trying to give answers, accepting the amending proposals (at least those acceptable), trying to understand the mood of the parliamentarians who, in fact, represent the mood of the territories and the country. But let's proceed with order. Before starting the examination in the contact person, the Commissions gathered 8th and 13th have carried out a series of hearings of the representatives of the institutions concerned by the provisions contained in the measure, and all this has enabled us to grasp, once again, the sensibilities experienced in the country and in the territory, which we have tried to translate into amending proposals, which we have tried to incorporate in the beehive of the proposed amendments and, sometimes, accepted by the Government. The work carried out in the Commissions gathered by the parliamentarians was extremely difficult and complex, because it concentrated mainly on the evaluation of the contents of Decree-Law 26 April 2013, n. 43 and on the verification of the possibility of making changes to this decree-law aimed at strengthening its driving force to the economy and therefore on the provisions to deal with environmental emergencies already present in the original basic text. All this has always been done in a rather complex context, because the current difficulties of the state budget due to an economic contingency still difficult to overcome are clearly present. Among other things, it has certainly weighed on the criteria by which the measure was instructed by the Commissions (in particular, as far as the 5th Commission is concerned), the expectation for the conclusion of the infringement procedure for excessive deficits which limits the possibility for the Government to exclude further amounts of expenditure at the level of state, regional and local government authorities from the Internal Stability Pact. This objective difficulty has sometimes also given the 5th Commission a perhaps unfriendly role: sometimes it even seemed to be a conflicting role with the 8th and 13th Commissions. Evidently, however, the conditions given were these, and from what world and world the dress is prepared with the cloth available. It is desirable, however, that, once the Community procedure has been successfully completed, the areas of financial manoeuvre can regain the consistency necessary to give shape to concrete economic policy interventions geared to support and recovery, which today represents the priority of the country, which as such is perceived by at least 70% of the population. In this context, among other things, the resources necessary to give substance to the instruments provided for in Article 27 of Decree-Law No 83 of 22 June 2012 (Decree Development), for the reorganization of the discipline on the conversion and redevelopment of productive areas of industrial and complex crisis. We know that there is a budget, but we also know that it is absolutely not enough to give the answers that the country needs. Obviously, we have the task of identifying those additional resources that can contribute to the country's economic recovery. The proposed amendments approved by the Commissions that will be later illustrated are mainly focused on post-emergency situations related to certain seismic events, in particular the Eagle and Emilia-Romagna, but also Molise. They had particular regard then the amending proposals relative to the crisis that concerns the harbour area of Piombino. Among other things, I note as very positive the fact that the crisis area of Trieste has also been included, precisely because of the connection that a large company today in crisis operating in the area of Piombino has equally important economic interests, important in the industrial area of Trieste. There is therefore a clear connection, albeit in independence, between the two issues. And in the awareness that the same urgency is experienced in similar situations of industrial crisis and economic difficulties in other parts of the country we have, more importantly, the need to implement the resources available in the aforementioned article 27 of Decree-Law No. 83 of 2012 precisely to deal at later times with the integrity of the issues. In my opinion, the amending proposals, which I would like to mention in particular in order to respond to Mr Nugnes' demands, have also dealt with Article 2 of the measure, which concerns the waste emergency in Sicily, which is particularly relevant to the territory of Palermo. We have done an extraordinary job in the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, because we have basically improved the text with the effort of all, assuming that an emergency situation which dates back to 1999, i.e. 14 years, must nevertheless find strict control by Parliament. We have included in the text a rule which will have to allow the control of Parliament, the committees responsible and the Ministry responsible for the management of the commissioner in Sicily, but we have also included the improved rules of the text to the extent that it is necessary to provide for a series of initiatives a prior agreement by the extraordinary commissioner with the prefectures of the territories interested in the interventions. I would like to mention these examples precisely to say that we were not distracted by the solicitation of the territories and by the demands made during the debate. Other amendments tabled contain a number of legal provisions, the approval of which is a further step towards a path of recovery and economic development. In my opinion, this is very little compared to what was to be done, but the maximum compared to what could be done with the available resources. Ladies and gentlemen, just from the experience which, modestly, I have of the parliamentary classrooms, which I have been attending for over a decade, I can say, and we all know this, how difficult it is to get through the ordinary legislative channels and, sometimes, the decrees are the means by which we can give those answers that otherwise would not be addressed at all. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before the Senate Assembly today is certainly multifaceted, certainly complicated, but, in my opinion, absolutely enriched with respect to the original drafting. I conclude, then, by saying that it is very easy to ride the wind of anti-politics; it is very easy to ride the wind of those who want to destroy everything without having in mind the idea of a country project, which can replace the current one. As far as we are concerned, we are aware that the sense of responsibility that we are in charge of, the place and, above all, the historical moment that the country is experiencing, must determine us to move forward on this path because, precisely from this example, from the work that we have done together in the Commissions together, in these weeks of intense work - as many senators have recalled that I want to thank for the words they have spoken in this House - we must continue to move forward with determination and force; that serene force that arises from the awareness of working well in the exclusive interest of our country. It is with this wish that I conclude my speech, hoping that on this road we will continue to go on, because the country asks us to do so, the territories ask us and the citizens ask us to do so. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups and the Senators Ferrara Mario, Rossi Maurizio and Berger. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u40	Senator Ranucci is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u41	Madam President, last of all I would like to make some general comments on this decree. First of all, I would like to thank President Marinello, President Matteoli and the rapporteurs for their work in the Commission. This is an important and necessary decree, and I would like to take the opportunity to give some thought to it, addressing the Government and, perhaps, to all of us. Once again we put together two words: urgency and emergency. I remember how many times, in the last legislature, we contested the activity of Civil Protection, which dealt with so many issues that were urgent, but it was not an emergency. I think we need to take this as a starting point to ask the government for planning. It is certainly not possible to refer to the measures concerning earthquakes, because they cannot be planned, but if we are talking about an earthquake 12 years ago we cannot talk about an emergency decree. The idea of continuing to use Commissioners to solve environmental problems in Palermo or Campania or even those related to the Expo is wrong. Our country must become familiar with the fact that we can operate with ordinary laws. I remember that, for the Jubilee of 2000, many works were carried out in Rome with ordinary laws. We certainly made the work of the Commissioners more transparent when we included the forecast that economic resources should be reported quarterly. Of course, we are frightened at the very moment when we say that there is a derogation from the procurement code procedures, so we have asked for checks to be made in this regard too. I want to say loud and clear that the Expo represents an extraordinary opportunity for our country, and must become the symbol of Italian efficiency, ability and pride. With it we must show the world how good and capable we are from the realization and organizational point of view. We must regain pride in the Expo and on other great occasions and show it to the world. We must regain our pride in transparency. I think this is really important. Alongside programming there must also be vision. As we all know, Piombino is a degraded area. We have all heard the President of the Region talk about reclamation and job protection. However, he has also given us a vision: the conversion of the port of Piombino to a port that can undertake a new activity. He spoke to us about the possibility of the port of Piombino to become an important center for the demolition of the ships: not even one of them exists in the Mediterranean, so often the ships are brought to the East. And this could be an asset for our entire territory, for our country. We have to put a vision in everything that is done: we cannot think only of reclamation and not of what comes after; if we think of safeguarding jobs, we must also think of how, because we cannot put everything on the shoulders of the State and the Government. But the government must have a vision that goes beyond the emergency and urgency of that moment. In this decree we talked about a derogation from the Stability Pact for some funding and some regions. This is an invitation to the government. We've done this so many times. I would remind you that in the past legislature, here in the Senate, we voted unanimously for the Stability Pact to be exempted for all the activities and investments of the local authorities, for all the projects that can be immediately sunk, for everything that concerns the security of the territory. Some colleagues have said this before: the security of the territory does not only mean investing, but also saving, because every time the territory is devastated there is an emergency and we have immediate costs that multiply. We must strongly ask Europe for the derogation from the Stability Pact for investment by local authorities. 20 o'clock, followed by RANUCCI. There is another point in the measure before us that has nothing to do with the emergency or the urgency. The Government wanted to move the tourism sector from the Presidency of the Council to the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities. I would like to say to the Government that a Undersecretary for Cultural Heritage, in an interview given to a well-known weekly, to the question of what she thought of the cuisine of our country, replied that in our country we eat badly and that our cooks cannot cook. Well, I'd like this to be avoided - and I'm addressing the government - because I think it's a blow to the culture, economy and food and wine of our country. I believe that tourism must be promoted in all its sources and in all its various facets, because tourism is important for Italy. In this regard, I would like to mention some data from the Bank of Italy for 2012. Foreign travellers' spending in Italy amounted to 32 billion euros, with an increase of 3.8 percent, or about 1.2 billion euros more than in 2011. The World travel andtourism council drew up a report on the economic impact of the tourism sector enlarged in 2012, highlighting the following data: the impact on the enlarged economy of the travel and tourism sector amounted to EUR 161 billion, with a GDP impact of 10.3% of tourist employment (i.e. 2,600,000 workers) and an impact on the entire national employment of 11.7%. In essence, I think it is important that our country points to this sector and raises it. It is necessary to take extraordinary economic measures in order to remove the criticalities that limit their strengthening and development. A strategic plan must be drawn up as a matter of urgency. Now, with regard to this last point, I have been told that the Minister of the previous Government has formulated one of them, and I would therefore like to say that I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. To know him. I therefore ask the Government to inform us of the strategic plan for tourism in the headquarters of the Reference Commissions, because it is important to know that this sector is not left aside. Finally, I would like to add something about the identification of the most urgent measures linked to the transport and infrastructure system. This is because you can't do tourism without an infrastructure and you can't grow the country in general without infrastructure. I think they should be targeted. In essence, whenever we think of realizing something in our country we must also think of the economic relapse that it can have in the field of trade, tourism and industry. We must not create infrastructures that remain on their own, and that do not have the capacity to develop and advance our country. Well, I really ask the government to have planning and vision. This country needs to look at a comprehensive and comprehensive vision. When we break in so many small commissioners the activities we do, we do damage to the country. These are emergencies, so I absolutely agree, but it is necessary for the country to have the opportunity to look at its growth, which can only be general. In this regard, I should like to express a little personal, not political, thought about tourism: perhaps the political vision of tourism should be recentralised and not left to so many small opportunities that happen in the various local authorities. There may be reception, but the promotion and political vision of tourism must be recentralised. Therefore, we need a political vision of our country, in the economy, in the industrial plans. Here, Piombino is an industrial plan. Where does our country go? To what does our country go? What are the industrial plans you want to marry? Steel, aluminium, wood, tourism, infrastructure? We, I believe, must have the ability to say where our country goes, with what resources and with what means. But above all, since we Italians have the ability to lift ourselves up, let's say: give everyone, entrepreneurs and workers, the opportunity to get together to raise Italy, which has all the skills to become again one of the leaders of the world. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u42	The general debate is closed. Given the high number of interventions at the end of the session, the replies of the speakers and the Government will take place in the afternoon session of tomorrow. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u45	MALAN (PdL). Mr President, thank you for your personal presence at this time. Yesterday, while you were presiding like today, there was a time for discussion, where no names were mentioned, where a senator said someone was voting for an absent colleague. I, to my great surprise, found out that he was referring to me. This has been clarified in this House, because I was simply sitting in another place, I got up and, without touching anything else, I put my hand in the place that was assigned to me, I did it twice and I thought that the matter was over, because, when there is no complete bad faith, a possible accusation - even if before making accusations you should be sure of what you say - should stop. On the other hand, the Espresso website publishes an article entitled: "The Senate wins the pianist" where there is my photograph while I actually vote in that position "overtaking." In addition, a video was also released from which we can see very clearly that it happened exactly as I said, i.e. I got up, because I was talking to a colleague, and I voted from my place, so I did something totally regular. I voted exclusively for myself, from my place, so everything was totally regular. The Espresso website publishes this photograph and this video which, from the angle and even from the words that are there, is quite clear that they have been taken in the Chamber. You can easily identify the precise place from which these photographs have been taken and this film, however contrary to the rules that have always been made to observe in this Chamber, but, what is worse, under the title: "In the Senate the pianist wins, "Espresso" writes: The 5 Star Movement immortalizes the pidiellino Lucio Malan while voting in the place of an absent colleague, under Maurizio Gasparri's attentive eye, also involved, even if he was in his place, but being Vice President of the Senate, undoubtedly, if he supports an irregular behavior it would be serious. Following the comments I sent on the site, they modified the subtitle in a sufficiently ambiguous way, writing: " (...) immortalize the pidiellino Lucio Malan as he votes in a place other than the one where he sits. Following are comments, the first of which, President, is of an anonymous nature, like practically everyone else, because the names are fake, which says: And what does the President of the Senate do? The President did exactly his duty: he checked, he saw that everything was regular and he had absolutely nothing else to do. Following are comments such as: "attitudes of the genre" deserve the radiation, "it wants castor oil for those of "PdL". And then it is said that making comparisons with totalitarian movements of the past is out of place: but in this case we are really in the same place, even to the same gastronomic genre, I would say, to be compassionate, although unfortunately here there is really little to laugh about. Threats and insults follow: "Malan" is a thief, "as always the PdL can only do illegal things. PdL embarrassment. In the meantime, Mr President, I will propose, possibly also in writing, to the President-in-Office of the Council, which is the body responsible, to take action against those who not only violate the rule that there has always been a failure to take action, but above all to make false accusations and to provide material which undoubtedly constitutes, as it is presented, a serious damage to me personally but also to the Senate, to you, President, who presided impeccably, to Maurizio Gasparri, Vice President of the Senate, who is involved, all with newspapers that immediately jump on this thing without even having watched the film, because if they had watched it and had used a glimmer or of intelligence or good faith they would have understood that it proved exactly the opposite of what the newspaper headlined. President, there is clearly an attack on the Senate, in particular: against the other constitutional bodies, but in particular against the Senate. I have very clear ideas about why this is happening, but this is my reflection that is outside of this intervention. It is clear that in the face of these attacks we must defend ourselves. I therefore ask you to take legal action against newspapers that write falsehoods against the Senate because, if you do not defend yourself from an attack, you only feed it and make life easier for those who want to destroy the credibility of this institution. [[Applause from the PdL, PD, M5S, SCpI and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u46	As far as the Presidency is concerned, it seems to me that it has been established, in the immediacy of the fact, that you, Senator Malan, had pressed the button for your place. If you will allow me, I have been able to check that, even after the video was there, even from the records (in the event that there had been other votes near the one in question) it turns out, and I can give notice, that everything has actually taken place as it had been established in this House. Therefore, Senator Malan, I acknowledge that you, being temporarily sitting in a different place, voted from your place. Now the Rules of Procedure do not go so far as to predict that you really have to sit in your place: you just have to vote from your place, where your card is inserted. From this point of view, we can only reiterate what has already been established during yesterday's sitting of this House. As regards the follow-up, you, as Senator Commissioner - or even another Senator Commissioner - may make proposals to the Presidency Council. In fact, the practice of not filming or filming in this House is a practice, a rule that has been given to us, but perhaps it would be better to codify it, either within the Rules of Procedure or through a resolution of the Presidency Council, which can be adopted at the initiative of the Quaestors. I think there is a need to prevent discrediting institutions and anti-parliamentary attitudes from taking place. Therefore, any initiatives to be taken in this regard will be evaluated in the Presidency Council. This, to close the matter and give you note that it was so. Then, possibly, Senator Malan, can also intervene to assert the right to have removed the film from the website de "l'Espresso."
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u49	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of what has emerged over the last few hours about my person and the alleged involvement in affairs disputed by the judiciary, I believe it is necessary to share some of the considerations with you, with due respect for this House. Even before I was notified of any act, paradoxically already more than 24 hours had unleashed around me a media carousel that, regardless of the principle of presumption of innocence and in the total absence of a clear accusation, had already tried and condemned me. This says a lot about the Italian media system, in which the first to know about investigations and accusations and convictions are journalists and not those directly concerned. I think this is a democratic vulnus, but it is probably the simple practice that the country unfortunately seems to get used to. I am sure, convinced and aware of my total estrangement to the facts, that I will take care, in the manner and in the time stipulated, to demonstrate and reaffirm in the competent fora, for the respect that I have of this House and the institutions that I have been proudly called upon to represent. What is disputed - and I would like to stress this - is alien to me. The facts at issue, in fact, date back more than ten years and, therefore, beyond their justification, are certainly outside my parliamentary activity. Precisely in the respect I have of this institution, I personally want to give up any form of parliamentary immunity that could slow down or complicate any proceedings, because I believe that before an accusation, beyond its nature, I must be a citizen and not a man of the institutions, and as such I must make myself available to investigators in a fast, transparent and conscious way, because of my total innocence that confirms in me the dignity to renew my sincere willingness. Unfortunately, political speculation has been included to broaden the already critical tones, or rather - allow me - of a little honorable part of politics: jackals ready to throw themselves on the victim on duty, put on the grid by the media even in an attempt to take political advantage of it. All this is shameful and I want to reiterate it in this House, which should protect and protect the rights of citizens in every way, the dignity of people and the fairness of confrontation. I am not a man of apparatus, I am not the adviser to this or that, as some politicians have commented hungry for notoriety. I have always been a man at the disposal of the country, animated by that sincere sense of duty and by the deep respect of the institutions that does not belong in factions, but goes far beyond the fences of the parties. In fact, I belong to the electoral citizens, to all those who have voted for me and who have given me their trust, the same people who are showing me all their closeness at the moment: only to them I have to account. From childhood life has put me in front of hard trials and I want to face this with the dignity, honesty and morality that have always accompanied me and around which I always wanted to build my experience as a man and father; I want to do it first of all for my family, towards which my thoughts go. I ask you for a kind respect, not silence, what you expect from the highest institution in the country, which must be a reference and an example for the individual citizen and for Italy. The trials, ladies and gentlemen, let us leave them to the magistrates. [[Applause from the SCPI, PdL and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u52	Mr Gotor (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor in this House for the first time to record a serious incident this morning in Terni, where a trade union demonstration took place, attended by some 400 employees of the AST, former Thyssen, the steel plant in the city. It was a peaceful demonstration, as evidenced by the presence of the city institutions at the head of the procession. Nevertheless, the police intervened by battling protesters, workers and workers, who had occupied the station tracks as a sign of protest, but symbolically and who, as the testimonies say, had their hands raised. In the course of the clashes the mayor of Terni, Leopoldo Di Girolamo, who suffered a bruised tear to the head, and some city councilors, who were performing a function as peacekeeper between the parties, were also hit. Even though we understand the harsh working conditions in which the police operate, this is incomprehensible violence and unacceptable behaviour, which we condemn severely. On what happened today in Terni we will ask, as elected parliamentarians in Umbria, urgent explanations to the Government, with special question from my colleague Senator Gianluca Rossi, involved in accidents. To the workers and to the Mayor Di Girolamo we wish to express our solidarity, as Senators of the PD, also on behalf of this Assembly. To the citizens of the country, to the representatives of the institutions and to all those who have wished to demonstrate peacefully in defence of the work and industrial activity of the area, I believe that we must renew as a Parliament our full support for their battle in favour of national work and economic development, in a period of economic crisis such as the one we are experiencing. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u55	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have learned from the press that on the night of last Saturday, more than 50 policemen would have taken Mrs Alma Shalabayeva and her only six-year-old daughter from a home in Rome and forced them by force to embark on a private plane waiting for them at Ciampino Airport to take them to Kazakhstan. Mrs. Shalabayeva's husband, the child's father, is one of the main opponents of the Kazakh regime, who was previously imprisoned and subjected to inhuman treatment in Kazakhstan and for this reason enjoys the status of political refugee in Britain. When I heard this, Mr President, I was deeply ashamed of being an Italian citizen. While in these classrooms the Istanbul Convention against Violence against Women was being ratified, our Government, the Italian State used force to hand over a woman and her innocent child to a government that is accused by Amnesty International of trampling on human rights. I wonder, Mr President, how this could have happened. Colleagues, there is no need to mention Article 19 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, according to which it is prohibited to move, expel or extradite a foreigner to a State where there is a serious risk of being subjected to inhuman or degrading treatment. There is no need for this article, Mr President, to be ashamed and deeply indignant about what has happened. Someone has certainly made a mistake and will have to answer for this action. Mrs Shalabayeva, Mr President, and her child have not even been given the opportunity to address a judge to verify the legitimacy of their expulsion. These are acts that disqualify our country and degrade it to the rank of the banana republics, where citizens have no right and where corruption and evil govern, because the black and dark shadow of corruption, Mr President, hovers over this story, perhaps because for someone the life of an innocent woman and child is less important than a gas supply contract. The 5 Star Movement condemns "without if and without but without" this uncivilized and inhuman act of violence that has been consumed against a helpless woman and an innocent child, who mistakenly thought they had found shelter and shelter in a civil and democratic country. And forewarning that the Movement will put everything in place to find out who is responsible for this misdeeds, which stains the name of our country indeliblely, and above all, Mr President, to discover the unconfessible backgrounds of this shameful page of our history. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u58	CARRARO (PdL). Mr President, I am ahead of the years, I am proud to be Italian, to live in a country that is democratic following the struggle that the Resistance has made, I belong to an institution and I assume the correctness and good faith of the other institutions, from the government down. Therefore, if there has been any mistake, it is right to ascertain it, but I am not pleased that it is said that the Government has done something that we should be ashamed of if we do not have proof before that the Government has made a mistake.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u61	BONFRISCO (PdL). Mr President, I add drama to drama. What has just been told by Senator Giarrusso (which, moreover, we have learned from the press) highlights a truly tragic and disturbing case in our country. I think that you too will want to be active in order to be able to clarify and verify as soon as possible everything that you have just concluded to say very well my colleague Carraro, because this is something that must certainly be deepened. Let me also, Mr President, draw your attention as an attentive person, indeed, like many of us, very attentive to the issue brought to light by the movement of the families of children suffering from rare and incurable diseases, which saw the Senate engaged, thanks to its extraordinary commitment, in drawing up a text of amending law of the famous Balduzzi decree, which had a unanimous vote by this Assembly aimed at addressing and resolving, at a legislative level even before health care, this issue. We learn in fact only today of the death, happened last 2 June, of the little Sofia Maria, suffering from SMA 1, a terrible disease, that would have to undertake the cure to the Civil Hospitals of Brescia by order of a judge. This is the first tragic outcome of a law that has failed to guarantee the right to life and to care. As for experimentation, the same bureaucracy that inspired the launch of the law, in particular the Chamber of Deputies, continues on the path of inertia, that inertia that will probably lead to the failure of the experimentation itself. Of course I hope to be wrong, but I am very concerned about the slowness and delay reported by the operators of Stamina in being summoned. They are the central part of this experiment, yet no one calls them. I am very close to the pain and anger of those desperate parents to whom no explanation or excuse can return their poor child. The small Sofia Maria di Civitavecchia was suffering from an incurable disease and, above all, without medicines available on the drug market. But thanks to the Turkish-Fazio decree, a good law of the Italian State on compassionate care of 2006, could be treated with stem cell therapies, just as the Senate had foreseen to amend that decree. Instead, the House wanted to overthrow everything and deprive these patients of the only possibility of treatment. And he also left only the hospital in Brescia: only to face the hundreds of requests that soon became decrees of the judges. If this seems to you a civilized country, not to me: to me it seems just a country that dies of bad bureaucracy! Someone's really dying today. I hope someone wants to make up for this tragic indifference. The little Sofia Maria died on the day of the Feast of the Republic: who knows if even this does not have a meaning! [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u64	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I asked to speak at the end of the sitting because I am not in peace: there is another scandalous sentence, Mr President, on the case of Stefano Cucchi. On behalf of the Italian people, the judges, fortune tellers, Mr President, who did they condemn? They've sentenced six doctors. That's it. Of the injuries of Stefano Cucchi - caused in prison or outside, I don't know, someone else had to ascertain it - the fault is six doctors, including the primary. Is this in the name of the Italian people? Is this Italy born from the Resistance? But do they realize that there is a consensus? If a patient does not want to be treated, the doctor cannot treat him. Do we remember the Englaro case? The judge had to intervene to pull the plug. This is: less than two years at all, without of course the report. Now, every day our doctors, who have a six-year degree plus a five-year specialization, study eleven years and are the most underpaid in Europe, in what spirit do they start working in the emergency room knowing that there is someone who hates them so much that they condemn them? Only them: not nurses, not agents, not custody staff, not outside drug dealers or insiders, I don't know who. Only six doctors. But these doctors must observe precise laws: if a patient does not want to be treated and treated, they cannot do so, because otherwise they commit a crime and are sentenced. If they do they are condemned, if they do not do they are condemned. We have a cost of a few billion euros a year for defensive medicine, because the legal safety of our doctors in the emergency room is put to a hard test and therefore, before treating the patient, they must create the evidence for when they are called in front of judges who obviously do not deserve this name, because they cannot continue to take it out on those who every day, poorly paid, underpaid by taking risks, roll up their sleeves to try to give this country a health care that is the second in the world. And there are in it silent researchers who work underpaid. I said the other day that Stella and Cattel had the biggest recognition in Amsterdam for their ability, without going abroad to earn money, but remaining on patriotic soil. So, Mr President, we owe these doctors respect. That is why I have spoken, because I want this to remain in the report of the sitting. While our medicine is the second in the world, our justice is the worst in Europe. That is the proof. I always say it takes doctors to cure justice. I hope that this Senate and the House will finally make reforms that prevent this evil justice, which, among other things, strikes a category that has always honored our country, always caring for everyone. [[Senator Razzi's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u65	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-35.ana.u66	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 6 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.34 p.m.
