ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, on the Minutes, a change should be made. Yesterday, during the vote on motion No 56, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators, we clearly requested the electronic vote, which was denied; so I would like it to be recorded in this formality. Subsequently, following this incident, the 5 Star Movement left the Chamber, so I would also like this to be recorded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u5	We take note of your comments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u8	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add to what my colleague said that during that vote there were hands raised to request the electronic vote which were confused with votes in favour. I would add that the same vote did not ask who the abstainers were; so, in my opinion, that vote would be invalid, and I would ask that my comment remain in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u9	The Presidency takes note of this, although a number of issues had already been clarified yesterday.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u12	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we also ask that we include in the minutes that we clearly asked for the electronic vote yesterday. It did not convince us - allow me, President - of the President's reference to the inattention of the Secretary Senators. We think there should also be the President's attention when senators raise their hands. Maybe we'll do it more clearly without jumping to avoid trouble, but still we'll try to get noticed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u13	As was said yesterday, I repeat that the Presidency had been able to verify that the request for electronic voting had been made only after the vote on Amendment No 56 was held by show of hands. It was only in that particular circumstance that we could not proceed through simultaneous scrutiny because the vote was already in progress. However, let us record the observations that have been made and confirm that the Secretary Senators and those who chair the Assembly pay as much attention as possible to detect any requests for electronic voting and that there has been and is no intention of criticizing anyone, where, by accident, some indication from the senators can escape. Perfection is not of this world; we will all seek to improve our activity together.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u16	SANTANGELO (M5S). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) Colleagues, as the first vote, we give the senators time to go and get the cards. I pray to those who still have to reach their station to do so immediately. The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u19	COLUCCI (PdL). Mr President, I would like to point out the lack of registration of my presence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. I put to the vote the Minutes, supplemented by the comments that have been made. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u20	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u21	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9.41 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u22	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00037 by Senator Tomaselli and other senators, and 1-00071 by Senator Compagnone and other senators, on the Adriatic rail corridor. I call Senator Tomaselli to explain motion No 37.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this motion, which is signed by several colleagues from the Group of the Democratic Party and other groups, is based on the objectives of the policy of economic, social and territorial cohesion set out in the Lisbon Strategy, one of whose priorities, I would like to remind you, is undoubtedly the strengthening of infrastructure networks. The cohesion policies pursued by the European Union are aimed primarily at creating homogeneity and integration between territories, cultures, traditions, stories and trade, focusing precisely on the integration of the network as a completion activity. In particular, it is necessary to draw attention to Europe's interest in extending the trans-European transport network, the so-called TEN-T, for which the European Union has already provided important financial resources for the coming years. A little over a year ago, in the Senate, the 8th Permanent Commission adopted a resolution on the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on Union guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network. That resolution highlighted our country's national interest in staying fully within the strategic choices promoted by the European Union. These proposals are aimed in particular at the creation by 2050 of a single European transport area, based on a comprehensive, interconnected and intermodal transport network, involving railway, maritime, air and road infrastructure in all Member States, capable of contributing to the improvement of the free movement of goods, services and persons within Member States, between themselves and with neighbouring countries. The Community proposal also provides for an increase in the resources available for the promotion and implementation of these networks. Specifically, these networks will have a progressive expansion in two phases, the first by 2020 and the second by 2050. Among these networks I want to recall the so-called corridors, the subject of our motion, but also a similar address taken up by the Senate about a year ago. I am referring to the Baltic-Adriatic corridor that leaves Helsinki and stops, in the current forecasts, in Ravenna, cutting off a substantial part of the south-central Adriatic quadrant of our country. In that resolution, adopted in the Senate, we noted, with very broad agreement, the need for an additional investigation activity to see the Italian Government engaged with the European Union in order to include in the continuation of the Baltic-Adriatic corridor, along the Adriatic ridge, the entire director Ancona-Pescara-Bari-Taranto-Lecce, as this continuation is a central element, among other things for the system of connections within the so-called Adriatic-Ionian macro-region, which is now soon to be approved. The latter, on which the European Union has strongly insisted and invested in recent years, is one of the interregional strategies open to the Member States but also to neighbouring ones and sees an active and particularly committed protagonism of our country and the whole Adriatic ridge. This extension is of fundamental importance also in view of the fact that, in the new core network of corridors, the famous corridor 8 Bari-Varna is no longer planned, now somewhat abandoned, which played a strategic role of connection between Italy, and therefore Europe itself, and the Balkan regions. Precisely in the perspective of the approval of this important strategy, the Adriatic-Ionian macro-region, and in order to make Italy the center of gravity of the trade between the East and the West, as well as between the Countries of the Europe North and the new economies that face the Mediterranean, we urge once again the Italian Government, also with this new act of address, to an explicit and punctual commitment directed to the promotion and support, in the European context, of the extension of the Baltic-Adriatic corridor along the recalled ridge. It is clear that this macro-region is a decisive chapter for transnational integration, as well as for the growth and economic development of our entire country, which will also foster the same process of accession to the European Union as the Balkan countries. From this perspective it is essential that the whole of Europe, therefore, look with attention and coherent choices both to the Balkans and to the entire area of the Mediterranean, and here the perspective, which is the object of our motion, of an infrastructural strengthening of the Adriatic dorsal, starting with its railway line. That is why in this strategy and in this European context, but with a view to the Mediterranean and the Balkans, we believe it is essential to design, promote, identify resources and projects aimed at modernising our rail network and developing infrastructure connections, particularly along the Adriatic dorsal, which is now objectively penalised compared to other guidelines. It therefore assumes an urgent commitment from the Government, which we want to urge here, to ensure adequate planning for projects aimed at modernising this railway line, with particular reference to the Director of Milan-Lecce, from Friuli, and the interconnection at Emilia-Romagna level, in the light of the next definition, among other things, of the programming of the Structural Funds for the 2014-2020 period. More than at the high speed, of which we understand not only the difficult financial, infrastructural and design sustainability, even from the not short time, we objectively aim to strengthen the so-called high capacity line along the Adriatic backbone; an investment and modernization project that could represent a decisive impulse to that movement of goods, persons and services and to that integration between substantially neighbouring regions of which we have talked so far. The Adriatic dorsal, therefore, is central precisely for the limits it has today but also for the potential it manifests, because it involves regions that go from Friuli-Venezia Giulia, passing through Veneto, Emilia-Romagna, up to Puglia. Among other things, in recent days all the presidents of the Region, from Friuli-Venezia Giulia to Puglia, have agreedly expressed the interest to participate (another point on which we invite the Government to an initiative, to put in place a sort of coordination between the Government, the Regions of which we speak and the Railways of the State), in the realization of feasibility studies and consequent project acts, and also in the identification of the Community resources, national and in charge of the Regions, that in reasonable times and with sustainable resources can lead to the modernization and to achieve the result of which we are talking today. From this point of view, therefore, the consultation promoted in recent weeks is to be welcomed, and on this we intend to entrust the decisive commitment to the Government, and in particular to the competent Ministry, to carry out this coordinating function. This is a challenge that makes the infrastructural modernization of such a decisive part of our country an opportunity for the profound integration of Italy and Europe projecting them towards the Mediterranean and with an absolutely decisive position towards the new world that advances from the Balkan area. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u24	I call Senator Companione to explain motion No 71.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u25	Mr President, this motion is based on a number of assessments which I would like to mention. It considers that the European Parliament's Transport Commission has approved the regulation for the development of the trans-European transport network and notes that corridor 1 Baltic-Adriatic is more than 3,000 kilometres long, with an extension ranging from Helsinki to Bologna, Ravenna and Ancona, through rail connections Vienna-Udine-Venezia-Ravenna-Ancona, inland navigation and the use of motorways of the sea. It is also estimated that Bari, in particular, despite the recently promoted metropolitan city, is not included in the list of central urban nodes, while the same Adriatic backbone is not included in the TEN-T network, since the Baltic-Adriatic corridor stops in Ancona, remembering that the TEN-T corridors are mainly railway and are aimed at strengthening intermodality, extend through 19 regions in 5 Member States, connect more than 40 million inhabitants, connect important nodes between ports of the Baltic Sea and the Adriatic and connect Europe with the markets of Asia. In the motion it is estimated that corridor 5 Helsinki-La Valletta, mainly high-speed and high-capacity railway, winds from north to south through the territory of 6 countries of the European Union, including Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Austria and Italy and that its route has been drawn on the basis of the previous priority projects - we remember the TEN-T 1 (Berlin-Palermo), the TEN-T 11 (Øresund bridge) and so on - including also connections of the type of motorways of the sea between Sicily and Malta. Moreover, the development of the Helsinki-La Valletta corridor is based in particular on the construction of two basic infrastructures, which are the link through the Fehmarn Strait in the Baltic Sea between Germany and Denmark and the Brenner Base Tunnel, between Italy and Austria. As far as Italy is concerned, there are opportunities linked to the implementation of this project, linked both to the possibility of joining two major European regions from the point of view of industrial production, namely the Po Valley and Bavaria, and to the development of the national North-South network. In fact, the Helsinki-La Valletta corridor, on its southern track, is based on the centrality of the high-speed railway axis in Italy, in particular between the nodes of Verona-Bologna-Florence-Rome-Napoli-Reggio Calabria-Messina and Palermo. However, only some of these routes are now completed (for example the Bologna-Naples link). It should also be borne in mind that not only Apulia and Italy would miss a great opportunity, but Europe as a whole would make a serious mistake. In fact, the reasons for the continuation of corridor 1 Baltic-Adriatic to Apulia are, as well as of an economic and transport nature, essentially geopolitical, considering that today the European Union, which has welcomed the countries of Eastern Europe, should look more closely to the Mediterranean and Africa as future basins of economic and commercial development, taking into great consideration two next scenarios, to which it has been working for a long time and which, as has been mentioned, will concern the creation of an ionic-Adriatic macroregion and the accession or pre-accession to the European Union of all the nations of the Balkan area. Europe has already developed regional integration systems based on a vision of a broad sub-national area: just think of the macro-regions of the Baltic and Danube. The process of aggregation of an Ionian-Adriatic macro-region which includes, in addition to all the Italian coastal regions, Slovenia, Croatia, Montenegro, Albania and Greece is already under way. Similarly, the process of enlargement of the Union continues, with Croatia preparing to become the 28th State of the Union and Serbia, ready for accession. Albania, Montenegro, Bosnia and Macedonia will follow. For all these reasons it seems incomprehensible that corridor 1, coming down from the Baltic, stops in Ancona and does not go on for Bari and Brindisi instead. Without prejudice, the European Union would contradict one of the cornerstones of the TEN-T development programme, namely the interconnection of networks. The importance of the Mediterranean in the international trade scene is also demonstrated by the growth of container traffic through the Suez Canal. I remember that between 2000 and 2011 they have touched the 7.178 total passages (North-South and vice versa), with an increase of 55.7% of the ships journeyed regarding 2000. It was noted that, as far as Sicily is concerned, there are no high-speed and high-capacity links, which would also fully fit into the multiannual programming of the resources to be used for the construction of corridor 5 (Helsinki-La Valletta), which represents the southernmost node of the network of the entire area of the Mediterranean basin and fulfils the very important function of connecting peripheral areas of the European continent, and also noted that corridor 5 is considered of absolute importance for the country system, it follows that it must necessarily involve the construction of the bridge over the Strait of Messina, since, if not, the European corridor itself would not make sense. It would be in fact unclear, if not illogical, to imagine the Helsinki-La Valletta corridor, which includes the Naples-Reggio Calabria railway section, as well as the Messina-Palermo section, not specifying how to connect Calabria to Sicily. One wonders, in fact, how the much invoked multimodalità could be realized without filling this cesura of path represented by the arm of sea that separates Calabria from Sicily and on which the fast trains should run. It is worth remembering at this point how the project of the bridge on the Strait, which would run on a distance of about 3 kilometers between the two main pylons, would connect more than 5 million inhabitants to the rest of Europe with definitely positive and huge influences on the development of the South of Italy. Suffice it to say that: Palermo meets the requirements of city "nodo" because its metropolitan area exceeds the million inhabitants; the most direct connections to the island of Malta take place through the ports of Sicily (Pozzallo, Catania, Augusta, Palermo); in order to give realization to the southern part of the European priority project with specific reference to the railway network, have already been supported by Italy considerable investments. In fact, the new European transport network, including the Helsinki-Sicily-Malta corridor, also develops in the Sicilian territory according to the director Messina-Catania-Enna-Palermo to allow to serve the main urban nodes of the island and to improve the railway connections with the ports of Catania, Augusta and Palermo. Given that so far for the bridge on the Strait of Messina have already been spent for the project and the maintenance of the company Strait of Messina 383 million euros, the failure to realize the bridge would lead to the payment of penalties estimated up to an additional 700 million euros. It is recalled, therefore, that against the total cost of the work realized of approximately 6 billion euros, the State would spend more than one billion; that is, it would spend as much as a work costs, without however realizing it. It was noted that Sicily, which has a population of more than 5 million inhabitants, must be guaranteed the same degree of freedom of connection to the continent granted to other European countries, one cannot but mention, for example, the bridge project on the Øresund, which permanently connects Denmark to Sweden. This bridge, co-financed by the European Union, is longer than the one planned on the Strait of Messina (measure in fact 7.8 kilometers), and connects only 3.5 million inhabitants of the Copenhagen-Malmö area, compared to the 5 million Sicilians that the bridge on the Strait would connect (not to mention the population coming from the North African countries that would pass through this corridor). The bridge over the Øresund was built and inaugurated on June 1, 2000, while the bridge over the Strait of Messina suffered impressive and guilty delays. But, indeed, the reasons that push to return more forcefully on the necessity of the realization of the bridge itself are the same reasons that have pushed the Danes and the Swedes to build that on the Øresund, that is, the necessity that the commercial activities no longer suffer the long times of crossing the strait and that finally, thanks to the infrastructural strengthening, Regions like Sicily and Calabria can have the opportunity to drastically reduce the gap of development that separates them from the richest Regions of Italy. Therefore, if this bridge between Denmark and Sweden has been possible, we cannot see why it is not possible to achieve a similar bridge between Sicily and Calabria. We therefore propose to commit the Government to taking strong action in order to extend to Bari and Brindisi Corridor 1, which, as planned, leaves a large part of the South isolated and does not take into account future developments in European policy towards the Mediterranean. We also propose that it undertake to take strong action at European level to ensure that Corridor 5 is included in the European Union's programming for the years 2014-2020, also for the planned link up to Palermo, with resources that lead to opere cantierabile and recompense the realization of the bridge on the Strait. Finally, we propose to commit the Government to direct strong action to involve the European institutions in an evaluation of the benefits that would bring the final realization of the bridge on the Strait for the connections of the Mediterranean countries with Northern Europe. What does "bridge" mean? What is the answer? It responds in the first place to the need for work, of which we speak so much: work for the South. Then to that of economic development: there can be no economic development in a Region if there are no communications. Everyone understands that. There can be no development either for agriculture or for tourism, the two basic levers for the development of the South. Finally, social cohesion. There is a lot of talk about social cohesion, but what greater social cohesion is there than what should be between the South and the North? What social cohesion can be more important than that among the citizens of Italy themselves? [[Applause from the LAG and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u26	I would like to say that the G1 agenda has been presented, which has already been printed and distributed, which Senator Razzi has asked for. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u27	Mr President, I am speaking about the Adriatic rail corridor for the modernisation of the Pescara-Rome line. The speed of the Adriatic railway corridor constitutes a strategic and challenging work for the Italian Government. In this context, adequate modernisation of the Pescara-Rome railway line must be ensured. In fact it is not even conceivable that the two railway corridors (Tyrrain and Adriatic) are modernized and speeded while the possible modernization of the same corridors has times of journey (over five hours) absolutely inadequate and penalising for the travelers. The modernization of the Pescara-Rome railway also constitutes a strategic work for the tourism and the economic development of the entire Abruzzo, and it now works inescapable for the drastic reduction of the phenomenon of congestion of the vehicular traffic to Rome. All this said, the agenda of the G1 is intended to commit the Government, and in particular the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, to proceed as a priority to realize the works of adaptation and speed up the railway line Pescara-Rome. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u28	I declare the debate open. She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that, with a view to the rapid approval by the European Union of the creation of the Adriatic-Ionian macro-region, at its meeting on 18 January 2012, the Senate's Public Works Commission stressed the need to carry out further investigation at European level so that, as part of its work to define the routes to be carried out by 2020, the Director of Ancona-Pescara-Bari-Taranto-Lecce as a continuation of the Baltic-Adriatic corridor, a request which gained further political strength through the unanimous approval by this House on 11 January 2012 of a motion calling on the European Union to approve rapidly the creation of the Adriatic-Ionian macro-region. However, our position is completely unthetical to the inspiring motivation of the motion in question. In fact, the extension of the Baltic-Adriatic corridor must not be understood as an act that transforms Italy into an interchange platform for trade between East and West, as this would be destructive of the territorial fabric because of the enormous impact that the realization of the structures necessary for the completion of the logistic platforms would have. It is a priority instead that the Adriatic backbone is part of the Trans-European rail network project, as Italy needs an efficient connection both in internal terms and in terms of interconnection with the European networks, entering within the framework of a wider connection between the North Sea and the Adriatic Sea. Let us point out to this House, ladies and gentlemen, that the Adriatic ridge is currently very critical, that it is intertwined and goes beyond the European financial programming 2014-2020. Such criticalities also require an overall examination of regional and interregional railway connections, in the firm belief that there can be no cities and users of series A and series B. On this side the delay is very remarkable compared to the offer planned along the central director Naples‐Rome‐Bologna‐Milano. The extension of the Baltic corridor must therefore be seen not with a view to creating a new high-speed-high-capacity line or to convert the current line at exorbitant costs into a high-speed-high-capacity line, but rather with a view to making the railway offer comparable to that of the Tyrrhenian line, both in terms of costs for users and rapid connections. That is the injustice that needs to be put in focus, Mr President, in order to improve the supply of regional and interregional transport services. In addition, fast regional trains are absent along the Adriatic route, which obliges citizens to buy only the most expensive service. If we add the fact that Intercity trains, which run along the Adriatic route, often travel faster than fast regional trains, the damage suffered by citizens is very obvious. To suffer from this situation are above all the Regions like the Marches, the Molise and in particular the Abruzzo, penalized to such point - I would like to emphasize - that the cities suffer the isolation. By way of example, I quote Pescara, which, although it represents a commercial reference, is neglected by the Italian Railway Network (RFI) regarding connections to and from the city, in total violation of the service contract. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u30	You've run out of time. There are other colleagues from your Group who are members to speak, so I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u31	BLUNDO (M5S). All right, ma'am. It is therefore necessary to reason and elaborate an overall strategy of relaunching transport in the major Italian cities, with a regional and interregional perspective that takes into account the territories without neglecting places of environmental, historical and artistic value, also for the purpose of a healthy cultural tourism, authentic resource and real oil of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u32	Senator Amati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u33	Mr President, first of all I would like to ask that we be able to add the signature to motion No 37. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the motion we are debating today in this House addresses an issue of fundamental importance for our country, for its position in Europe and for its strategic location, which makes it a natural bridge between the Western and Eastern worlds. This act has two main aims. The first is to direct the action of the Government, with a precise commitment to make so that in European center the deep conviction is matured that the extension of the Baltic-Adriatic corridor (corridor 1), along the Adriatic dorsal and up to Puglia, represents a strategic element between the different productive poles and the harbour areas of the Adriatic. Thus, not only will our country be able to make stronger, improving the internal economic and social links between North and South, but above all to ensure that Italy can become a nerve point of trade towards the Mediterranean and link between the Countries of Northern Europe and the new economies that face the Mediterranean. The second objective is to commit the Government to ensuring adequate programming for projects aimed at modernising the Adriatic backbone railway line, with particular reference to the Director of Milan-Lecce, precisely in view of the programming of the European Union's resources for the period 2014-2020 in the framework of the major trans-European networks. In fact, the importance of the realization of a high capacity line on the entire Adriatic dorsal is extreme. Moreover, this need has been felt even before by all the local realities that insist on the Adriatic and that over the last few months have undertaken, through the Presidents of the Regions, a real battle in support of the realization of an adequate and efficient railway network at high speed, able to reflect those that are the parameters and the requirements themselves that the European Union demands for the railway transport within the framework of the great infrastructural projects. As demonstrated by the 2014-2020 multiannual financial programming, the European Union has identified as a priority the extension of trans-European transport networks, with a budget of EUR 50 billion for the creation, by 2050, of a single European transport area, based on a complete, interconnected and intermodal transport network, involving the railway, maritime, air and road infrastructure of all Member States, capable of contributing to the improvement of the free movement of goods, services and persons. Italy, if it wishes, must play a role within this European area, without remaining on the margins, and must do everything possible to strengthen its position through concrete projects, such as the strengthening of the infrastructure of the Adriatic-Ionian backbone through the realization of the high-speed line. This project combines in full with the strategy of the Adriatic-Ionian macro-region, supported, I remember, also here in the Senate in the previous legislature with the approval of several bipartisan motions. For several years, in fact, the so-called macro-regional strategies that have already seen the approval of two macro-regions, the Baltic and the Danube, have been launched at European level, as innovative instruments for cohesion and territorial cooperation policies between States and regions in order to achieve common development objectives. Macro-regional strategies can become a very important tool to give concreteness to the territorial cohesion objective promoted by the Lisbon Treaty and to strengthen the processes of accession to the European Union of candidate or potential candidate countries. Even Italy is now approaching, with the approval of the Adriatic-Ionian strategy, planned by the end of next year, to run with a new driving role for this intervention. The efficiency of the infrastructures of our Country is a precondition so that Italy is able to convey the commercial traffics, not only within the national borders, but also outside, becoming a real logistic platform of the Adriatic-Ionian quadrant, able to connect our Country and Europe with the new emerging economies. I would like to remind you that the strategy of the Adriatic-Ionian macro-region had as its main supporter the Marche Region, with its president Spacca, who was the rapporteur of the first document on the Adriatic-Ionian initiative, approved in 2011 by the Committee of the Regions in Brussels. In conclusion, for our country, in view of the approval of the Adriatic-Ionian macro-region, it is therefore indispensable to proceed to the realization of a high-speed network on the entire Adriatic ridge. Moreover, Europe, already during the approval of the Danube macro-regional strategy, stressed the importance of an efficient infrastructure network and the need to ensure the development of infrastructure connections between existing macro-regions. In fact, only through more efficient connections with the regions of the South, Italy can think of being able to move down the centre of gravity of European development and prevent the Adriatic-Mediterranean area from being excluded. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u34	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the motions that have been tabled show, apart from very different content, a common element of difficulty: as a Parliament, at this absolutely delicate stage in our country, we are called to assume strong responsibilities, to give an overall view of the strategic prospects of mobility which mean living and transport conditions for citizens and goods within our country, on the main directives of Europe and towards East and South-East. On the eve, also and above all, of the announced decree of the Government called "to do" we expected that a strategy would be established around precise centers, with the criterion and with the addition, determined by the national, international and global crisis (which is a fundamental detail), of being able to put to immediate use (according to the philosophy of the decree of doing) works without more the division between large and small works, with the characteristic, however, of being these construction sites. However, in the motions - and in some in a particular way - I see neither this philosophy nor this perspective, because there is no organic reasoning. Moreover, on this point the Senate, with the competent Commission, has made a commitment with Minister Lupi to carry out a discussion in order to identify some central issues that will have to characterize the policies of our country, first of all on the net of the transports on iron, obviously, but not only. So let the Senate and Parliament do it in an organic way in order to have an overview and direction. Otherwise we will all have works on the subject that are absolutely acceptable, but that do not make a whole, do not make a policy that can cope with the macroscopic contradictions that, within the philosophy of high speed, we have begun to pay and we risk, paradoxically, to continue to pay even in the future. The country, in fact, needs more regional rail transport, more interregional services, technological investments on the existing network, because you can speed up the existing lines, increase the capacity of infrastructure, build and also create work and development: immediate, good and quality. Everyone knows that on high-speed lines not only one freight wagon passes, and not even local transport trains can pass. This is an example of what happened between Orte and Rome, with the commuting trains of Umbria and Tuscany, and those coming from Viterbo. The regions of the Adriatic dorsal need transversal connections, such as the Bari-Naples, the transversal of Campobasso, the Pescara-Rome, the Orte-Ancona, the Ravenna-Ferrara-Rovigo triangle: the development of the country depends also and above all on this. We must stop the mythology of the great works: they are necessary and useful, of course, but they are necessary and useful works aimed at modernization, recovery and technological innovation. Instead, let's think about what is proposed in the motions: with the high speed line of the central Tyrrhenian you go from Rome to Milan in three hours, taking practically the same time necessary to go from Cassino to Rome. Not only is this not good, but it determines precisely the choices that, with the very scarce resources that we have, we must know that we have the responsibility to make. So, we really have an opportunity: if we can put the transport plan that Minister Lupi has explained to us within a reasoning that has these priorities and, when the Senate and the competent Commission will have adequate information, and not only those available through the journalistic summaries, to intertwine it with the purposes of the decree of doing, I believe that we will have the duty and responsibility to succeed in making the choices that are announced, moving the sums that are blocked today, perhaps for the high speed, on works that can be built up, that have iron as the dominant element and that provide for transversal connections, both for the commuting traffic and for the transport of goods. I therefore believe that at this stage the spirit with which I believe this House should address this issue is not so much to put flags, many of which - let alone - are absolutely due, important, respectable and responsive to needs, but to assume responsibility for an organic and harmonious perspective, which takes into account, as fundamental elements, the local sector and the possibility of carrying out the works that are identified. So let us see if this effort can be made - which was not at first, with the motions that have been presented independently and legitimately - and whether we can do so in this House too, in order to reason on a direction that goes in this direction. I repeat: it is not necessary to put flags, but to give an address on which Parliament can work and which the Government can translate into acts to be approved. So, in conclusion, let me say that, reading the device of the motion signed by Senator Compagnone and other senators, we review some works not only of doubt (on the merits), but of absolute impossibility. Indeed for too many years resources have been wasted on certain projects and proposals, such as the bridge over the Strait of Messina, which really call for revenge on the ability of this House and this Parliament to bring together harmonious and feasible projects and proposals, in the current situation of great crisis, not only economic and financial, but development, work and especially quality work. So let us really try to take responsibility and cut this culture, which is dangerous for our country. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u37	Mr President, it is well known that the European Union has identified as one of the infrastructure priorities the Adriatic railway corridor that runs from the North-East through Veneto, the Marches, Abruzzo, Puglia and Calabria in order to arrive, with the bridge over the Strait, in Sicily. I would remind you that economic development is only in areas with infrastructure. But it is even more true that, beyond the Adriatic corridor, the European Union has also identified the Tyrrhenian corridor, the so-called Tirreno-Brennero, because Italy is bathed by two seas. Well he did, therefore, Senator Razzi to say that it will be necessary to connect Pescara and Rome or Grosseto and Fano. These priorities are a key instrument for the economic development and integration of the Member States. Also the plan of corridor 5, therefore together with the completion of the international infrastructural connections, like the doubling of the railway line Pontremolese and the Third pass, assigns a central role to Italy and qualifies our peninsula as the European logistic platform extended between the basin of the Mediterranean to 80% and towards the East to 20%. However, I still have to understand what we are doing with the Baltic. This said, after this the sacrosanct motion, important and necessary presented by Senator Compagnone and other senators, with which is solicited a complete Adriatic railway corridor up to Sicily, as I said a moment ago, addressing my colleague Senator Caleo, who was mayor of Sarzana, I add that it is necessary to complete also the Tibre corridor and then present a motion for the completion of Verona, Mantova, Parma, La Spezia, Sarzana, Rome, Naples and Reggio Calabria, which joins the Adriatic, to arrive both, through the bridge on the Strait, in Palermo, Catania, in essence in Sicily. That is why it is necessary to have the connection between the two seas and reach, with the verticals, that bridge which, of course, is the reference point of these two important guidelines. As I have already said, in fact, without infrastructure we cannot develop. Our motion, well illustrated by my colleague Compagnone, is therefore prompting the presentation of the next one of equal importance relative to the Tirrenic Director. I shall end the speech with a note. The railway infrastructure policy above all, but of course also the highway policy, is really important. It is unthinkable that the A12 will end in Rosignano Solvay to resume in Civitavecchia. All roads lead to Rome: that's not true. You can't block everything because otherwise the canterino no longer nidifies in those areas; this seems to me a really absurd excuse. We, colleagues, must do so, the Government must do so and not the deus ex machina of the railways, the engineer Moretti, who must remember that the interest of Italy of his wishes is much more important, which often does not coincide with our interests of Italians and Italy in an infrastructural sense. I hope that this motion will be propedeutic to the next one that sees the Tyrrhenian corridor complementary to the Adriatic one to arrive both on the bridge and, therefore, in Sicily. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Davico is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, we are well aware of the extraordinary importance of the connecting corridors for the European Union and for our country, which are essential within the mobility system because they will be able to avoid the marginalisation and marginalisation of certain Eastern European markets which will have an important development in the coming years, in which we believe. If today we have to make the so-called accounts of the servant for the economic crisis that does not allow us to invest in logistic infrastructures, which even would be urgent, we still have the duty, as legislators, to work in a financial perspective until 2020 and in the transport one at least until 2030, if not until 2050, when the global network of the trans-European corridors of goods and passengers should be completed. The final objective is ambitious and consists of full coverage of the territory of the European Union and accessibility to all regions, although this objective today appears to be more difficult to achieve in a Europe, all of it, which has to deal with the deepest crisis in its history, and probably in history in general. Therefore, I do not believe that anyone who cares about the fate of our economies is today in question about the centrality of the Baltic-Adriatic corridor, which is one of the ten priority corridors for the European Union and crucial for the development of freight transport on the North-South direction of Central Europe, since it links the ports of the High Adriatic to the Danube area. This is also because - and I am passing here so institutionally qualified a Cicero promo sua - the path identified by the European Commission ensured that the connection between the regions of Northern Europe and the ports of the Adriatic passed through the Italian territory, at the service of that harbour hub represented by the Adriatic ports. We are aware of what great opportunity would be the extension of the Adriatic-Baltic corridor to the entire Adriatic ridge, recovering the design lost in recent years. We know well that the port of Ancona and the interporto of the Marche have already been inserted in the main net and the complementary one of the European Union, sign that it recognizes to this territory an important role in the complex of the system of the transport and the European logistics and that on the tracks of this zone can transit trains and container of all the dimensions. What raises some legitimate perplexity today and arouses this debate, if anything, is the use, the destination of the resources available at this time, which could, if anything, converge on feasible, cantierate infrastructures, thus avoiding leaving around Europe unfinished corridors, the magnificent tracks on paper and on the theoretical maps of economic geopolitics, which in reality would end up being cut off by the lack of resources to invest for their completion and for their concrete activation. Without prejudice to the fact that my Group intends to promote everything that supports the industrial fabric, feeds economic trade and strengthens our competitiveness, thus creating new opportunities for development and subsequent employment, rigorous policies necessarily require a certain measure of intervention. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that there will be proper control over the management of resources, and I would like to draw attention to the importance of not dispersing the already scarce resources, so that we can begin by completing what we already have in the pipeline. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u39	She is registered to speak Senator D'Onghia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u40	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I must necessarily declare my conflict of interest with regard to the subject in question: the infrastructure deficiencies and the backwardness of the rail systems linking the South of Italy to the North and Europe, particularly on the Adriatic side, are a problem that I, as a citizen of the South, text every day. I often wonder how it is possible to fill the electoral programmes of policies for the Mezzogiorno and then, in concrete terms, ignore that the citizens of the southern regions must take on journeys of hope in order to reach the north of our country and that, above all, the goods must suffer in terms of competitiveness. Goods that go from the North to the South, because the largest producers are usually in the North and the largest consumers are in the South; and goods that go from the South to the North, because we do not provide our companies with the necessary infrastructure to play with international competitors. Embodiing each of our regions in a unique speech, which plans to look after the interests of our country, is very important. This is the only way we can understand our political action. In this case, our work must be directed towards real territorial cohesion and concrete support for the growth and competitiveness of all our citizens and of all our businesses: large and small, of the North and of the South. We observe the data on the Italian transport policy, always oriented to favor the road transport regarding the intermodal and railway one. Despite the orography of our country favors the transport by train or ship, waited the long distances of journey, the quota of railway transport in our Country does not exceed 4 percent. I would point out that the European average is 12.5%; Germany is 15.6 percent, Switzerland 67.5%. We are far behind, and so far we have not taken too much care of the objectives set by the European Union on modal shift. The White Paper sets 30% by 2030 and 50% by 2050 the share of goods that will have to go by rail. But Europe has done more: it has created a new instrument, called 'Mechanism to connect Europe', within the framework of the multiannual financial programming 2014-2020. This instrument has a budget of EUR 50 billion for the period in question, of which EUR 31 billion is specifically earmarked for investments in eligible infrastructure under the Cohesion Fund. The European Union aims at the creation by 2050 of a single European transport area, based on a comprehensive, interconnected and intermodal network, involving railway, maritime, air and road infrastructure in all Member States. And what better place than the Mediterranean and the Italian lands that overlook it, occupying its heart, is more favorable to ensure this interconnection? We seem to ignore the mass of about half a billion people, of 21 different states, living on the European, Asian and African shores of the Mediterranean. We must remember in this regard the great potential for growth that the countries of the entire basin will have in the coming decades; therefore, it is up to us to create the conditions to be actors and not, as unfortunately often happens, only unarmed spectators. Do you understand what it can mean to speed up the transit of goods, for example, to the port of Taranto? Could it be that to date the port of Taranto, but also that of Gioia Tauro, have served from zero incoming trains and zero outgoing trains? Well, the Bari-Naples high-speed route has already been included as part of the European Plan, in corridor 5 Helsinki-La Valletta: an important contribution, but insufficient if isolated. I feel, therefore, that I must fully marry Resolution No 125 adopted at the sitting of 18 January 2012 by the 8th Permanent Commission (Public Works, Communications) of the Senate, in which it expressed its support for the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Union guidelines for the development of the trans-European network, which calls for a supplement to the European investigation that will include in the verification activities to be carried out by 2020, including the continuation of the Baltic-Adriatic corridor and therefore of the Ancona-Pescara-Bari-Taranto-Lecce route. This connection is indispensable to make every territory of the Adriatic-Ionian macro-region competitive. They are here to provide elements of reflection on the necessary participations: to adapt the train module to the 700 meters regarding the current 530 (at the same capacity the attraction of quantity of transportable wagons of our trains and convoys is inferior of 25 percent); to adapt the railway shapes to the European profiles of C60 and P400, in order to be able to transport container, the mobile chests and the semi-trailers of large dimensions, as it happens already in the other Countries (this will also allow to valorize the hub ports of the South of Italy, such as Taranto and Gioia Tauro); to realize the doubling of the line Termoli-Lesina, today anachronistically still to single track. It should not be said that intermodal transport disfigures the country: the one on trucks, the one on rubber creates pollution and involves greater chances of accidents. Another reflection seems to me opportune and necessary to avoid what usually happens in the great Italian projects, and it is to have certain times, maybe a few months, to define the project, to share it with the various agencies, associations, territories and therefore to start a new path where no exceptions and blocks must be created every day that end up becoming a cost for the entire community. We are obliged not to create other unproductive yards, which ugly and impoverish the country. We must ensure that there is efficiency also in contracts with guarantees about the respect of the times, the quality of the works and also the certainty of the final costs. We must work to make the South of Italy a logistic platform that acts as a crossroads for the Mediterranean; today many of our goods arrive on the port of Rotterdam and this impoverishes our Country making it only a territory crossed passively. It is an obligation that we have towards nature, which has placed us in a favourable position as few. For Export, the situation we are experiencing is very penalising. It is a duty to the southern citizens, tired of promises and partial and insufficient solutions, such as rain finance. Furthermore, in view of the beauty of the places in question, we must consider taking action in accordance with the environmental impact and noise of future interventions. With care and attention we really have the opportunity to realize a great work, to unite this country, to make the citizens feel identical, with the same possibilities in Italy and Europe, because this is the challenge we have in the coming years: to make this country become an integral part of Europe. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I would like to speak briefly on the motions to express the position of the 5 Star Movement. The economic and working situation, which is certainly not rosy, in recent years should make the government and colleagues reflect on what citizens' priorities are. Too often it confuses needs for work and citizenship services with pharaonic investments that have nothing to do with the needs of the population. There is work and work, let's say in Val di Susa, and what enriches the multinationals and devastates the territory is temporary work, for little labour, that does not lift up the economy, nor gives sustenance to the citizens. Too often we talk about NIMBY syndrome when we do not have data to certify the uncertifiable, when we want to make it pass for progress and investment what third-party technicians call old and uneconomic. It is not by chance that I am speaking today, because it cannot be argued that a choice at home is disastrous and then, as is often the case, support its feasibility at home. On the other hand, we cannot seek the construction of infrastructure in our own territories in order to ingratiate ourselves lobby or perhaps the electoral market and instill false hopes of job opportunities. Italian citizens do not need large railway works, high-speed connections: Italian citizens would just like to get to their destination, maybe on time. More and more existing railway lines are being closed, local public transport is being massacred (too useful and economical for users to be taken into account by politics?), while new lines continue to vanish that will help to bring down state budgets and perhaps serve a small elite of citizens. There are no high-speed railway lines with active budgets; there are no estimates of expenditure respected in this kind of operation either. The data, gentlemen, clearly state that these are bankruptcies: they bring destruction and bankruptcy rather than innovation and work. Often this data is improved to make an insulting operation more appealing. For high-speed railway lines the term promiscuous TAC is often used, but there is no promiscuous line of high-speed passenger and freight, because it is not technically compatible; proof of this is that on the French side of Turin-Lyon, just beyond the base tunnel, the tracks are divided into high-speed passenger and freight tracks. So don't keep messing with us! It's not possible and it's never going to happen. This is not what citizens are asking for: citizens are asking for economic and efficient services, they are asking for the restructuring of the existing one rather than for the creation of new cathedrals in the desert. This is not progress! Even in Senator Compagnone's motion 71 the ghost of the bridge over the Strait is exhumed. We thought we got rid of this senseless idea; we wouldn't always want to go back to talking about these ideas for mere electoral reasons. Stop! [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups and the Senator D'Onghia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u44	Mr President, it is to the free movement of ideas, which travel with people, goods and information technology, that the positive efforts and actions to be taken over this 17th legislature must be addressed. Having a horizon, giving oneself a polar star is the task of the most knowledgeable ruling classes, which is also entrusted with the driving role of involving, in democratic terms, the social body of the country. The improvement of rail transport along the Adriatic ridge is one of the founding themes of the economic and financial programming of the next decade, as well as the shortening of the north-south distances of the peninsula, oriented to favor a process of inclusion in the southern part of the country to the regions of the center-northern. In short, it is time to give broad adherence to the legitimate demands of modernity, of contemporaneity of the southern populations, freeing them from the weight of development delays, historical slowness, apathy and resignation: attitudes these, senator lords, who have filled and fill still today wide pages of literature and custom, narrative and essay, often with accents of teasing and derision, on some occasions motivated, given the manifest faults of the protagonists. So let us think of the young people, the many women and men who today, as unfortunately yesterday, for reasons of work or study are forced and have been forced to live the railway distances as nightmares. Let us not leave these generations to resignation; let us crush them from the physical and psychological discomfort of farewells, freeing them from the urgent need to emigrate at a high price by abandoning affections, legitimate interests and life prospects. How far-sighted was the vision of the legislators and the post-unitary ruling classes in thinking, lawmaking, planning the realization, in the second half of the nineteenth century and in the early years of the twentieth century, of the great infrastructures of the country. Let's think of the extraordinary epic of the Autostrada del Sole, but also of the highway 16, the one that runs along the Adriatic dorsal (the zero kilometer is placed in Padua, the thousand kilometer is placed in Otranto). Let's think about the railway Bologna-Otranto: it has shortened distances and put the Italians in a position to call themselves such and to feel united. It is said that there is no economic sustainability. It is said that there is not enough question. But it is not said, Senators, that demand can be supported by an adequate infrastructure supply and that economic sustainability will be able to find adequate satisfaction, inevitably implementing the great tourist flows that from the North of Europe will be able to flow into the Mezzogiorno, as part of a desirable effort of modernization of the country passing through the use of new technologies of communication, the formation of human capital, the infrastructural endowment and the intermodality of the means of transport. The museums, the art galleries, the fascinating historic centers, the archaeological ruins and the extraordinary coasts of the South can therefore represent the supply and stimulate the demand. Employment will also benefit and young people, with their degrees and diplomas, will be able to find employment, even self-employment, because this choral social effort will be able to participate in the best energies of the South, the most beautiful talents of Italy. Adhering to this motion and to the subsequent one, we put the South in a position not to contemplate its navel, like a fallen nobility that sees the shadows of the magnagreci, the Byzantine and the Norman-Svevi. So let us give dignity to this remote past by redeeming the recent past and especially our present, the winter of our discontent. Senators, we haven't dared. Maybe we didn't want to dare to think big. The call is therefore to implement every action aimed at meeting the demand for participation: we involve schools, the education system, the business world and the professions. Politics is asked, in this process, to give body and substance to the demand for participation, favouring the social debate in the country, with the involvement of stakeholders and the world of information. In this regard, Mr President, I must praise the valuable initiative taken by the major, for vetusity and for reading, the regional newspaper, the "Gazzetta del Mezzogiorno" (Gazzetta del Mezzogiorno), which first interviewed the presidents and administrators of the Adriatic coastal regions, from Friuli Venezia Giulia to Puglia, and then gathered them in an extraordinary workshop recently held in Bari. The high speed, the high capacity, as well as the bridge over the Strait before are realized and better will be, for us, for our children and for the future of our generations. [[Applause from the PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u45	Senator Sonego is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express a feeling of gratitude to Senator Tomaselli for taking the initiative to propose today's debate to the House. I would also like to thank, of course, the promoters of similar initiatives. The project of the Adriatic-Baltic corridor, overlooking the limelight in 2006, initially proposing the railway connection, modern and efficient, between the city of Gdansk and the Port of Trieste. The initiative was taken by the authorities of the Hanseatic city. I recall this episode in order to reconnect with a previous era in which the connection between the Baltic Sea and Trieste was based on dramatic reasons and of different nature; I remember Winston Churchill's speech at Fulton in 1948, when he quoted Szczecin and Trieste as the ideal and material line that made the iron curtain descend across Europe. Today, thanks to European peace and integration, we are in a different context and on that ideal and material line we build prospects and policies for integration, economic growth, peace and cooperation. That Gdansk-Trieste project has made its way in community planning, and also in that of our country, and today the parliamentary initiatives, of which Senator Tomaselli is the front runner, propose the extension of that policy up to the tip of the Boots. This is a worthy initiative, and I would like to say a few fundamental reasons why the motion that we are going to vote for, together with the other documents, must be supported with great conviction. The first reason is the following: the infrastructural policy that is indicated serves to constitute the common factor of all the Italian Adriatic portualità, but - attention - serves to constitute the common multimodal railway factor also of the portualità from the other side of the Adriatic. The second reason is that the proposal we are discussing is intended to organise a modern modal shift policy. We must not forget that the unblocking of motorways on the Adriatic ridge can be replaced, in the near future, by an intelligent and modern policy of political rail transport that is indicated in the motion. The third reason concerns, as other colleagues have rightly pointed out, the connection between the infrastructure topic we are talking about today and the very important policy, also from the point of view of international relations, which lies within the institutional, political and economic context of the so-called Adriatic-Ionian initiative. The last point also concerns an extraordinary issue of international policy and the peace process of Europe, which is intended in the enlarged sense. I am referring, in essence, to the question of better stabilisation of the Balkans. The infrastructure policy we are talking about is an essential contribution to the peace and stabilisation of that part of the European continent. For all these reasons, Senator Tomaselli's initiative and similar initiatives by other colleagues must be supported with much conviction and after today's vote they must be further supported in the implementation phase. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u47	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u50	EXPOSED Joseph (PdL). Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to ask for the explanations of vote and the final vote on motions to be postponed until next week, in order to prevent a division of the House from taking place on such an important subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u53	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, we agree with the request for a postponement, and we hope that this matter will be examined in greater depth.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u56	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, my Group also agrees with the request for referral on behalf of the People of Freedom Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u59	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, unlike my previous colleagues, we reject this request because we believe that these are very different issues. We have a political assessment of everything. We believe that issues relating in particular to the bridge over the Strait cannot be linked to the TAV, to the high speed on the Adriatic and to a whole series of interventions indicated in motion 37. So, in coherence and in keeping with the work of this House, and since other measures are scheduled for next week which will do us a great deal of work, we would like to see a vote on the motions before us as soon as possible, as had been agreed. In fact, citizens have the right to know what we are doing and what we are doing, above all, perhaps for reasons of electoral nature. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u62	GIANNI (SPI). Mr President, the Civic Choice Group for Italy supports the proposal to postpone the debate on the motions put forward by the PdL Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u65	Barani (GAL). Mr President, of course, we also support the proposal for a postponement, partly because, as a famous saying says, the hasty cat makes blind kittens. The topic to our examination not only concerns the bridge on the Strait but also implies the Adriatic director, to whom we may add the Tyrrhenian one, works that, if mentioned, would complete a motion having as its object the possible economic development of the Country, also possible thanks to infrastructures on the territory. Therefore, I repeat, the LAG Group also supports the referral proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u66	Colleagues, on the proposal to postpone the discussion of motions, pursuant to Rule 93, paragraph 1, second period of the Rules of Procedure, since the unanimous consent of the parliamentary groups has not been recorded, the Assembly is required to vote with one vote by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u69	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask, if possible, for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u70	In this case, Senator, the Rules of Procedure provide for a vote by show of hands. SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you anyway. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal to postpone the discussion of motions, made by Senator Giuseppe Esposito. It's approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u73	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that the electronic device at my station did not work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u76	RUVOLO (PdL). I, too, Mr President, would like to point out the same lack of operation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u77	The Presidency takes note of this. At this point, I am suspending the sitting pending the meeting of the Conference of Leaders, which will also decide on how to continue the debate on the motions on the agenda today. (The sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and resumed at 12.22 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u78	The Conference of the Leaders took note of the President's communication on the inclusion in the calendar, pursuant to Rule 55 (6) of the Rules of Procedure, of the examination of the decree-law on environmental emergency, where amended by the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, at the afternoon sitting on Monday 24, which will begin at 4.30 p.m., the measure is expected to be examined, which will continue, if necessary, at the sitting on Tuesday 25. The Conference of Leaders also approved, by a majority, amendments and additions to the current timetable. In the same afternoon session on Tuesday 25th, where possible, the examination of the motions on the Adriatic corridor will be concluded. The debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 27 and 28 June 2013 was confirmed on Tuesday afternoon, for which time was allocated to the Groups. On Wednesday morning, 26 June, the motions on policies to combat poverty and oil research in the Adriatic Sea will be discussed. Wednesday afternoon will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. At the afternoon sitting on Thursday 27 June, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will make a statement on the political situation in Turkey. Groups will be able to intervene for 10 minutes each. At 4 p.m. on direct television, the Minister for the Environment, Land and Sea Protection will reply to immediate questions under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure. The decree-law on energy efficiency and fiscal measures, already included in the schedule of work for next week, will be discussed starting from the afternoon session on Tuesday 2 July. The other topics already scheduled for the week from 2 to 4 July remain confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u81	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the Conference of Leaders approved the timetable of work by a majority and not by unanimity. The Misto-SEL Group voted against the proposal for a timetable, in particular for the part relating to the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 26 June. Indeed, it has been a long time for me personally, on behalf of my Group and other Members of Parliament who have repeatedly called for the inclusion in the agenda of the discussions on motion 1-00008 on the aircraft implementation programme F-35 at almost all meetings of the Capigroup. For the umpteenth time, the debate on other motions tabled much later than the F-35 motion also took place in today's meeting. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] Evidently because perhaps you do not want to deal with this issue. Nor is the justification valid that next week we will be discussing this issue in the other branch of Parliament. I would like to point out to this House (and I would therefore ask for a change in the agenda, with the inclusion of this motion for a resolution next Wednesday) that it would be incredible, at a time when the President of the United States Obama himself actually announces the complete revision of the F-35 programme, that the Senate of the Republic in one way or another would avoid discussing the motion and thus take responsibility for it. I therefore call on the House to take a decision on the inclusion of this issue on the agenda of the afternoon sitting on Wednesday. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u84	MINEO (PD). Madam President, I think it is important to accept this proposal, because the issue of the F-35 has been very much discussed in the election campaign. I believe that Members have autonomy of mandate and do not have to do everything that has been discussed in the electoral campaign, but I cannot even be able to discuss it, I do not say in the first 100 days of the legislature (since this term is about to pass), but in the short term of this subject it seems to me to be a serious mistake and omission by the Senate. I am therefore very much in favour, and I shall therefore vote in favour of the inclusion of this motion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u87	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote for the continuation of the timetable approved by the Conference of the Leaders, which simply gives priority to certain motions which have appeared more urgent to the majority of the Leaders. We did not want to exclude any arguments, but this priority was shared by the Democratic Party at the Conference of Leaders, and we therefore confirm the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u90	Comrade (GAL). Madam President, our Group recognizes itself in its original proposal for a timetable, because, in fact, in the aftermath of such important international summits, so full of new positions, it is good that the debate on the motion put forward by Mr De Petris can take place in good time and manner, in the presence of the Government. At the moment, we felt that the assessment of the situation in Turkey was a priority, on which there will be an information report next Thursday morning with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, so we thought it would be possible to wait a week. Hence our Group's vote against the proposed change to the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u92	You have the right to do so. Now, Senator, I always look at you every time we have to proceed to a vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u93	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You're very kind, ma'am. I am kindly asking for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the vote is by show of hands. However, if you wish, you can ask for a quorum check. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let us then ask for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u94	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the proposal to amend the agenda of the president's proceedings. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final. We shall now proceed to the end of the sitting. I would ask those Members who wish to leave the Chamber to flow.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u97	THE COURT (PD). Dear President, Senators and Senators, today, 20 June, the Day of Refugee is celebrated worldwide. According to data from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the number of refugees and displaced persons has reached unprecedented levels in the last 18 years in 2012. Forced migration, registered in 2012, concerns 45 million human beings: 15.5 million refugees, 937,000 asylum seekers and 28.8 million internally displaced persons. Children make up 46 percent of all refugees. Every four seconds a person in the world becomes refugee or displaced. Wars are the cause before this exodus that is renewed every year. 55% of all refugees come from just five countries involved in conflict: Afghanistan, Somalia, Iraq, Syria and Sudan. These are alarming numbers that, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Antonio Guterres, indicate not only individual suffering, but also the difficulties of the international community in preventing conflicts and promoting timely solutions for their recomposition. In Italy, in 2012, 17,352 asylum applications were submitted - with a drop of almost 50% compared to 2011 - but the refugees in Italy, at the end of 2012, were 64,779, a figure that places our country only seventh in Europe, after six countries (Germany, France, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Belgium, Austria) that alone receive 90% of refugees in Europe. This year's message from the High Commissioner is: In one minute a family can lose everything. It takes you a minute to give them a new chance. Mohamed Guled was a 30-year-old Somali youth. One of those 45 million on the run. One of the 64,000 who chose Italy or found there. On Thursday last week he launched himself from the third floor of the building where he lived after being removed from the refugee camp of the Red Cross in Pisa with 500 euros in his pocket, without the drugs he needed to counter his depression, nor the possibility of going to Sweden, where he wanted to go. Mohamed took a minute to solve his anguish in the most drastic way. The European Union has just adopted an agreement on the reform of the European asylum system, which includes, inter alia, greater guarantees for vulnerable groups and overcoming the provisions of the Dublin Convention on the detention of asylum seekers in the first port country. These rules would allow Guled to have his drugs, to carry out his migratory project and, probably, to preserve his life. Many Mohamed Guled are in our country without support. It is the Italian paradox, denounced a few months ago by the New York Times and our Laura Boldrini, then as spokesperson for the High Commissioner. Italy works in the recognition of the right of asylum. The country grants refugee status to 40-50 percent of those who apply for refugee status, but what it guarantees to refugees is very little: not a job, not housing, not learning Italian or health care. And many of them thus are pushed into situations at the limit of legality. Let's make sure that on this issue, which represents an indispensable commitment to the protection of our country's rights at international level, Italy finds a way to do its part seriously. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u100	Orellana (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from press reports that the negotiations between the Afghan Taliban and the Government of Karzai, which we support together with the other allies, should begin today in Doha, Qatar. We should greet this as good news. This would open a great hope for a nation torn apart by so many years of civil war, and which sadly involved our nation, with as many as 53 fallen soldiers and many injured, some gravely. I remember here Luca Barisonzi, from Gravellona Lomellina, in the province of Pavia, who is completely immobilized. Unfortunately, this news was only heard by the press, despite the fact that last Wednesday there was a joint hearing of Ministers Mauro and Bonino. We therefore need to know what the reasons for this failure to inform Parliament are. Our fear is that Italian diplomacy had not been informed beforehand by our US allies about the preparatory contacts for this Doha event. We would like a denial - hopefully - by the Government in this respect. If that were not the case, I wonder why, for this important announcement, Italy has not been involved, nor in any way mentioned. Are we allies of the B series? Are we only willing to bring troops, but do we have no right to be informed when things turn to their best? Finally, the further question is what role Italy will play in this negotiation. Nothing is reported on the Farnesina website in this regard. The news is totally ignored. I would add that today's Wall Street Journal states that Karzai is even questioning this laboriously initiated negotiation. How will we be informed in the future? Just from the press? It seems to me to be a serious sign of inattention to Parliament, of which the Government has also repeatedly pointed out its centrality. I will present a parliamentary question to the Minister on this subject. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u103	MINEO (PD). Madam President, I will be brief: since I was a boy, I have learned to respect Parliament and I have also learned that it would be nice for us in Parliament to respect each other. Therefore, when I take the floor to deal with something that concerns another parliamentary group, I do so with restraint and not without having thought about it for a long time. However, I would like to say a few words to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement who, according to all political observers, won the elections last February and therefore drew all the spotlight on themselves. I respect the labor of the 5 Star Movement: it is not easy to grow so quickly, to face new responsibilities, to respond to the attention of the media, obviously exasperated by the novelty that has been created in Italian politics at once. With the same respect, however, I say to my colleagues, to you Senators of the 5 Star Movement, that I am not convinced by the use you are making of the Network. The exclusion of an exponent of the Group is a painful process, on which one may agree or not, but when one asks and gets God's judgment on the Net, dear colleagues, I believe that there is a risk of lynching. I say this very frankly: the processes of the Inquisition needed the crowd. It was essential that a crowd, who did not eat bread and live with envy, accompany the condemned. At other times, during the French Revolution, there were the famous tricoteuses, who knit under the guillotine. It is the media aspect that worries me: I would never allow myself to intervene on an internal matter. If I can give advice - but I tell everyone, even colleagues from other groups - on the Net we should introduce doubt, perhaps we should suggest that it is better not to give judgment on people. It is very important to accept democracy as a whole. There are formal rules: generally in democracy one does not have a public vote on a person, but one votes on a problem, publicly, because the public must be the relationship between the elect and the voter. But on judgments about people, calling 13,000 people to the vote - or as many as they are - represents a step towards a kind of democracy that is not ours. Then let me say, once again expressing full respect for your debate and saying that you have played a fundamental role in the transformation of our beloved country (we will then see what this transformation will bring): not so, on the Net, because this is also a question of democracy. [[Applause from Senators Cirinna and Liuzzi]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Look at the PD!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u106	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I would like to make a brief comment on what Senator Mineo said, for which I have a great deal of sympathy, and I would like to point out that today, in the article by Marco Travaglio, all the names of politicians who have been expelled from the various parties over the years can be read. Among others we find those expelled from the Socialist Party of Nencini, which yesterday was scandalized so much for what we did, but it was not scandalized, for example, for the expulsions of Codignola, Bassanini, Enriques Agnoletti, Veltri and others. The complete list of politicians expelled from the Democratic Party is found, instead, on a blog of the site "the telescope." It is also where we find entire lists of directors hunted because they are opposed to the realization of the TAV. Scrolling further you can read well-known names chased by the PdL with the motto that reads: What are you doing, kicking me out? I conclude by saying that the Web is simply a means, vices and virtues of the human being remain the same forever. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u109	CUOMO (PD). Madam President, I rise because yesterday the first section of the TAR Campania suspended a measure concerning the closure of the detached seats of the courts, annulling, or rather suspending, the measure issued by the President of the court of Naples, in compliance with legislative decree no. 155 of 2012 concerning the so-called judicial geography. I shall confine myself very briefly to asking you a question and to making it to my colleagues in this House, although through this somewhat baroque way of dealing with the late-session speeches: it would be better to change the Rules of Procedure and make them at the beginning of the sitting, so that they would have the knowledge and attention of the whole Senate Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I believe that from this point of view there is a kind of stubbornness on the part of the Government, which continues tenaciously to refuse to accept the idea that many Members of Parliament, both in the Chamber's and in the Senate's Committee on Justice, are proposing that the implementation of this measure be transferred by a year, in order to give time, in the new legislature, to the new Parliament and therefore to the Assembly of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, with the new parliamentarians, to interrogate in order to review the judicial geography. In this House and also in the Chamber of Deputies there are many lawyers and many judges who have performed judicial functions. There are not a few of them, and I would like to address Mr Casson. I would add that the return to the role of the judiciary is always in a certain sense tormented, so it becomes a subject on which we will have to reflect further. This issue of judicial geography should probably be reviewed. In many territories of our country, in particular in those of the South, to eliminate a garrison of legality, and then to close a detached section of a court, represents a hard blow that goes to hit that community and not only professional or corporate interests. I hope and believe that this House and you yourself, Mr President, who has carried out functions of government in your institutional career, can interpret the idea of restoring centrality to the country and Parliament through a redesign of judicial geography that also takes into account some distortions. It is not nice for a bureaucrat with a stroke of a pen to use a geographical map and perhaps make the court of Sala Consilina in Basilicata, in Lagronegro, not realizing that they are two localities belonging to two different regions. I believe that Parliament's centrality must be safeguarded and I hope that many colleagues, with the calmness and the idea of building a new path of judicial geography, can prevent the administrative courts from having to correct serious legislative distortions which the Ministers stubbornly do not intend to correct.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u110	Senator Cuomo, on the question of the speeches at the end of the sitting, a reflection will have to be made because, if they concern issues of legislative policy or political direction in general of great importance, they should of course be included on the agenda of a sitting in another form. The subject you have raised and other issues that have already been addressed should be discussed by other Members. I realize that this is a constraint, but perhaps the end-of-session intervention has a somewhat different purpose.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u113	SERRA (M5S). Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to the attention of this House the case of the company Vinyls, an establishment in Porto Torres. Everything has been stopped for years and the workers have abandoned the garrison for two days. In about a week's time, on 27 June, the police station will turn into a company failure. Yesterday, a delegation of about fifty people, between workers and union representatives, was received by the mayor of Porto Torres. The first citizen has been reminded that the substances that have been stored in the plants, which have been stopped for years, are dangerous: they contain dichloroethane, carcinogenic and flammable, gas used to produce plastics. In Vinyls plants, no less than 600 tonnes of VCM were unattended, a liquefied gas used in the production of plastics. The mayor of Porto Torres had already paid attention to the prefect on the serious situation of this company, alerting the fire department and informing the Government of the serious situation, asking for clarification on how to act when the company will be declared definitively bankrupt. The serious situation we want to describe, Madam President, is that there will be a lack of vigilance, because workers have not received their wages since February and because this factory - one of the many - will be declared bankrupt. Yesterday the cassintegrates came to the prosecutor's office to denounce themselves and to signal the disinterest of the institutions that should guarantee safety. [[Signs of emotion from Senator Serra. Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator De Cristoforo]] Excuse me, ma'am, for the concussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u114	Senator Serra, I understand your great participation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u115	SERRA (M5S). While this environmental, social and economic tragedy is consumed, I bring to the attention another intolerable abomination towards the citizens and Sardinian workers: the one related to the Alcoa. This morning, the workers of Sernam and of the entire procurement sector symbolically occupied the Department for the Work of the Region of Sardinia. In these months there are hundreds of workers who are receiving with months and months of delay the benefits provided by social shock absorbers and as many workers will remain without any cover from 1 July. The State has the task of studying solutions and making the workers and their families feel... (Signs of emotion from Senator Serra).. . I do not say an immediate solution, but at least an act of commitment and feasibility for solutions that can be implemented. I would like to announce that we intend to prepare a question for the Minister concerned. I apologize again for the concussion. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator De Cristofaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u118	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I agree with Senator Serra's appeal, which was very touching.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u119	The Presidency will be responsible for pointing out the dramatic situation and the urgency of the government's intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-46.ana.u120	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.52 p.m.
