ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.09 a.m. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the Minutes. Mr Spilabotte, interim secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u2	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Before we begin today's sitting, I would like to remind you that this day coincides with the 35th anniversary of the abduction of Aldo Moro and the barbaric killing of the men of his escort. I remember them: Oreste Leonardi, Raffaele Jozzino, Francesco Zizzi, Giulio Rivera, Domenico Ricci, fallen for the defense of our democracy and the Republic. Their sacrifice, the barbaric killing of escort men and, subsequently, of Moro invite us to work permanently to consolidate our democracy, that is, never to interrupt that thread of dialogue we spoke about yesterday by introducing this Assembly and always give as a point of reference and permanent invitation to the carrying out of our political activity the ability to dialogue. As once was mentioned in this House, the highest joy... [[Signs of concussion from the President. Applause.]] . . The highest joy each one of us can experience is to recognize in the thought of one's adversary one's own thought. I invite you to a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u3	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u4	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u5	CALDEROLI. Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for the words you have just spoken and for the memory you have just made, because they are widely shared not only by me but by the whole of this House. Mr President, I would like to refer to Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, under which we are meeting today, and to the conjunction with Rule 13 of the Rules of Procedure, which states: The Senators called to be part of the Government shall cease from the office of the Council of President. If I now have to proceed to an election that I believe may be more fortunate or more decisive than those of the previous day, I ask you how this article should be interpreted, reading it on the contrary, in the case between our benches sit and a person who is already a representative of the Government can be voted and that you read Article 13. My personal reading is that we are literally faced with a condition of ineligibility and, if so, the Presidency should give notice of the ineligibles present before we proceed to the vote, i.e. that the same person can resign from office. Another hypothesis is that one is in a condition of incompatibility and therefore, once elected, the same must resign from his office in the Government. However, reading Articles 92 and 94 of the Constitution, I have the doubt which will be the Government that manages the ordinary administration until the establishment of the definitive Government and, at this point, whether there is the need on the part of the President of the Republic to appoint a new President of the Council, because President of the Council, Ministers and Council of Ministers are necessary organs, indefectible and constitutionally guaranteed, so surely it is a matter of applying the first paragraph of Article 94 - therefore a further expression of confidence - in order to have a Government that manages the ordinary administration and leads us to the confidence that is still in doubt regarding the political government that will go in the future to settle. I believe that the matter could have been the subject of consideration by the Rules of Procedure Board, which you cannot do because the Rules of Procedure Board has not yet been set up. Therefore, from the institutional jam we have plunged into an institutional cul-de-sac and it appears evident to everyone, with the few words that I have now expressed, as Regulations, Constitution (at least part of it) and the ordinary laws themselves, which then lead us to this state of affairs, must be rewritten. With the heterogeneous composition of these chambers, if we don't do it in this legislature, when are we going to do it? [[Applause from some senators elected to the North League lists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u8	CASINI. Mr President, I have no knowledge of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate as correct as that which, of course, Senator Calderoli will have. It seems to me, however, that this intervention is completely inappropriate, not least because we in this House do not have the opportunity to intervene, and it is clear that this is a political intervention. The case, if anything, will be examined at the time when it would occur, certainly not now, influencing however the autonomy of the Senate in the act, alone and unique, of the election of the President: vote without debate. [[Applause from some senators elected on the lists "Con Monti" for Italy.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u9	I must remind you that there is a constant application of Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, which goes in the direction of preventing debates from taking place in this House at this stage, because the House, at this time, acts and moves as an electoral seat, and therefore no indications or contraindications relating to applications are allowed. Therefore, I would like to refer to the precedents regarding the interpretation of Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, which all go in this direction. I therefore do not accept, as has not been accepted, any discussion which is merely an explanation of vote. In this regard, there is a similar decision taken at the sitting of 29 April 2008 by the then interim president, Senator Andreotti. The point of order is therefore inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u10	The next item is the vote on the election of the President. I would remind you that in yesterday's sitting no senator has reached an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Senate, as required by Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure for the election of the President in the first and second votes. A third vote must therefore be taken, for which an absolute majority of the votes of those present is required for the election of the President, including blank ballots. As was the case at yesterday's sitting (so it is now a well-established experience), my fellow senators, before entering the cabin, will receive a card from the parliamentary assistants which, after the vote, will deposit in the appropriate urn at the exit of the cabin itself. I declare the vote open by secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the senators' appeal in alphabetical order. (Senator Secretary Crimes and, later, Senator Secretary Spilabotte make the appeal.) Senators take part in the vote: Aiello, Airola, Albano, Alberti Casellati, Albertini, Alicata, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Aracri, Arrigoni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Barani, Barozzino, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Bernini, Bertuzzi, Bianco, Bignami, Bibbinella, Bitonci, Blundo, Bocca, Bocca, Bocca, Campanello, Esandiano, Cantini, Cervacchione, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Carinali, Carraro, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinaio, Cantini, Cantini, Cavelli, Cavelli, Chiavalli, Cavoli, Cavariello, Carinali, Carraro, Casini, Casano, Castondi PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and I am in favour of the provisional Bureau taking the ballots in public. I invite two secretary senators to bring the urn to the bench of the Presidency. (Interim Secretary Senators proceed to the ballot box. The interim president shall read the ballot papers passed to him by the secretary-general and shall forward them to the interim secretary senators who shall take note of the votes cast). I invite the Senators Provisional Secretaries to proceed with the counting of votes. (Interim Secretary Senators shall count the votes.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u11	I declare the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of the President of the Senate: [[Senators present 311 Senators voting 311 Absolute majority of present 156]] Senators got votes: [[Fat 120 Schifani 111 Orellana 52 Finocchiaro 2 Marin 2 Casini 1 Quagliariello 1 White cards 22]] Since no senator has obtained an absolute majority of the votes of those present, it is necessary, in accordance with Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, to proceed to the ballot between the two candidates who have obtained in the ballot just ended the highest number of votes, that is, the Senators Grasso and Schifani. The vote will take place this afternoon at 4.30 p.m. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 13.52 p.m. and resumed at 16.39 p.m.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u14	CALDEROLI. Mr President, I do not want to be superstitious, but the 17th legislature is taking a bit of a step forward, so it would have been better to call it perhaps XVI- bis for our wishes for the future. The Chambers have settled at the Idi in March, we are in 2013 and at the fourth vote, for the ballot, we have the purple cards: if we are looking for it... It means that we are looking for it! [[Applause from the centre-right benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u15	Senator Calderoli, I find this speech very funny, but superstition must have no place in our work. [[Applause from the centre-left benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, let us now proceed to the ballot. I would remind you that no senator reported an absolute majority of the votes of those present when the vote was taken this morning. The two candidates who obtained the highest number of votes in this ballot, namely Senators Grasso and Schifani, should therefore be elected. The one who will achieve the majority, even if relative, will be proclaimed elected. With equal votes, the oldest will be elected. As has been the case this morning, my fellow senators, immediately before entering the cabin, will receive a card from the parliamentary assistants which, after the vote, will be placed in the appropriate urn at the exit of the cabin itself. I declare the vote open by secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the senators' appeal. (Senator Secretary Verducci and, later, Senator Secretary Airola make the appeal). Senators take part in the vote: Aiello, Delola, Albano, Alberti Casellati, Albertini, Alicata, Amati, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Aracri, Arrigoni, Astorre, Augello, Azzolline Barani, Barozzi, Battista, Bellot, Bencini, Berger, Berlusconi, Bernini, Borioli, Bottici, Bruni, Bruno, Bubbico, Buccarella Calderoli, Caleo, Caliendo, Campanello, Candiani, Cervellini, Cantini, Capacchione, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Carinali, Carraro, Casaletto, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Cantini, Chiavelli, Chiannto, Chiello, Cittiello, Cittari [[In the course of the voting operations, Senator Alberti Casellati drew the Presidency's attention to the need for the senators to leave the voting booth with the card already folded. The Senators elected on the lists "The People of Freedom" applaud at the time of the vote of Senator Berlusconi.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u19	CALDEROLI. Mr President, I do not want to waste time, but I believe that the question I will put to you should be carefully considered. I believe that article 4 is not well written, starting from the first period; however, at the penultimate period (I leave the first part), it is said: "and it is proclaimed elected what follows the majority, even if relative to it." If a majority of the votes had been written in it, it would appear that one more vote would be sufficient for one of the two to prevail; having added the formula even if relative to the ballots, also involves counting the blank ballots, therefore the forecast of a relative majority compared to the votes cast. There is only one precedent, that of 1994, where the senators present in the challenge between Scognamiglio Pasini and Spadolini were 325 and was proclaimed elected Scognamiglio Pasini with 162 votes. You could therefore reply to me that there was no need for a relative majority. However, if you go further, you will see that there is a blank card. Therefore, the majority would not be more than 163, but by 162 votes, which actually Scognamiglio Pasini took. That is what is apparent from the literal reading of our Rules of Procedure (I say this before it has been taken into consideration and therefore without it being to the advantage or disadvantage of anyone), I would like to have an interpretation of it before proceeding. As far as my reading is concerned, it is necessary that there should be a relative majority and therefore that the blank cards should also be counted: if there are no blank cards then, better so, but if there were to be a number of blank cards, I believe that the vote should be cancelled. And I do not say that they made a mistake in 1994, but the presence on that occasion of a card made nothing lower to 162 the relative majority: so even then the Rules of Procedure were respected. [[Applause from the senators elected on the lists "People of Freedom" and "Nord League."]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u22	ZANDA. Mr President, I am sorry to have to contradict Senator Calderoli, but I believe that his interpretation of the Rules of Procedure cannot be accepted and that it must be interpreted in exactly the opposite way. Rule 4 provides for a voting system for the office of the President of the Senate with successive steps for the first, second, third and finally fourth votes. In the fourth vote, only the two senators who received the highest number of votes at the third ballot will participate in the election: therefore, the part of the Rules cited by Senator Calderoli can only be interpreted in the sense that it is proclaimed elected what results from the relative majority between the two senators who compete. [[Comments from the Senators elected on the lists "Nord League"]] Therefore, the precedent that Senator Calderoli himself recalls must be interpreted in the sense that they decided well in 1994 and, in the same way, I believe that it is necessary to decide well now, in 2013. [[Applause from the senators elected on the Democratic Party lists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u25	PALMA. Mr President, I listened carefully to Senator Calderoli's speech and immediately after that of Senator Zanda, but I would like to remind Senator Zanda that in the case referred to in Rule 4 of the Senate Rules of Procedure, while in the first three passages of the scrutins concerning the vote for the President of the Senate there is a clear reference to the votes cast, with reference instead to the last passage, that is to say to the fourth vote, I believe that Senator Calderoli is right when he recalls that the absence of a link with the votes, as in the other three passages, requires substantially from the interpretative point of view that the relative majority should also be counted with regard to the blank ballots. It is useless for me to remind Senator Zanda of those old Latin broccoli that are in charge of interpretation (in particular, what says " Ubi lex voluit dixit, ubi noluit tacuit "). And in the present case, we are faced with a net reversal of trend compared to the first part of Article 4, so that, in order to give a serious and reasonable explanation to the last engraved of Article 4, according to which it is proclaimed elected what follows the majority - no more than the votes - but even if relative to it, I believe that the importance of Senator Calderoli is appreciable and as such worthy of deepening and, from my personal and very modest point of view, even deserving of acceptance. That is why I believe that the proclamation can be achieved by a majority, but the blank ballots will also be taken into account in the vote as a whole. [[Applause from the senators elected on the lists "People of Freedom" and "Nord League."]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u26	At this stage, Mr Calderoli, I should not have given you the floor. [[Applause from the senators elected on the Democratic Party lists]] But the doubt you have raised is circulating - to my mind - also among the press agencies and requires a definitive clarification from the Presidency, in order to remove any shadows about the regularity of this very important sitting. In fact, an interpretative question has been raised about the penultimate period of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, in the part - as you have reminded us - in which it is expected that the Senate proceeds to the ballot between the two candidates who have obtained in the previous ballot the highest number of votes and is proclaimed elected what follows the majority, even if relative to it. In fact, this period does not mention the blank cards, which, in the previous period, relating to the third vote, are considered for the purposes of calculating the required majority, in contrast to the absolute majority established in the first two votes. [[Applause from the senators elected on the Democratic Party lists]] But, even if we want to ignore a literal interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, we must bear in mind the interpretation adopted in the only case of the history of the Senate in which a ballot was held for the election of the President (which was also mentioned here). I am referring to the sitting of 16 April 1994. It is clear from the shorthand report that Interim President De Martino, following the polling vote between the two candidates most voted in the third ballot, read the following result: Senators present: 325. Voting senators: 325. Scognamiglio Pasini: 162 votes. Spadolini: 161 votes. White cards: 1. None of the cards: 1 inch. No mention of a relative majority shall be made in the voting minutes. It is pointed out that at the beginning of that legislature - the XII - the plenum of the Senate consisted of 326 senators. At the ballot, 325 senators were present and voting, as already mentioned. The President was then elected by 162 votes, where the relative majority, calculated on the basis of the voters, as the interpretation suggested in the Rules of Procedure, would have been 163 votes. The result was not the subject of any dispute at the time, nor can it certainly be the case today, almost twenty years later. It was, in fact, logically considered that with the words "majority relative" the Regulation referred to the achievement of the highest number of votes between the two candidates. Therefore, in the light of such an authoritative precedent, the point of order cannot be accepted. [[Applause from the senators elected on the Democratic Party lists.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u27	I have the assurance that the provisional Bureau will take note of the fact-sheets in public sitting. I invite two secretary senators to bring the urn to the bench of the Presidency. (Interim Secretary Senators proceed to the ballot box. The interim president shall read the ballot papers passed to him by the secretary-general and shall forward them to the interim secretary senators who shall take note of the votes cast). [[Live, prolonged applause of the senators elected on the Democratic Party lists at the address of Senator Grasso during the strip of ballots. Congratulations.]] I ask the senators to wait for the proclamation of the final result. I invite the Senators Provisional Secretaries to proceed with the counting of votes. [[Interim Secretary Senators shall count the votes. Senator Schifani approaches the bench of Senator Grasso and congratulates him. Live, prolonged applause from the elected senators on the Democratic Party lists. Applause of the senators elected on the lists "Il Popolo della Libertà" (The People of Liberty).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u28	I proclaim the result of the ballot for the election of the President of the Senate: [[Senators present 313 Senators voting 313 Senator Grasso obtained 137 votes Senator Schifani obtained 117 votes White cards 52 None cards 7]] I declare Senator Pietro Grasso elected President of the Senate. [[The Assembly stands. Live, prolonged applause from the elected senators on the Democratic Party lists. Applause of the senators elected on the lists ……]] I should like briefly to suspend the sitting in order to convey the result of the vote to the President-elect and to allow him to take his place. (The sitting was suspended at 6.50 p.m. and resumed at 7 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u29	I invite the newly elected president, Senator Pietro Grasso, to take over the presidency of the Senate. [[President Pietro Grasso goes up to the presidential bench and shakes the hand of Senator Colombo. Live, prolonged applause of the senators elected to the Democratic Party lists, the People of Liberty and the "Con Monti" for Italy.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u30	[[He stands up.]] Dear Senators, you will excuse me, but I would like to address this first speech especially to those citizens who are following the work of this House with apprehension and hope for the future of this country. Never before does the country need rapid and effective responses to the economic, social and political crisis it is experiencing. Never before, Italian history is intertwined with European history, and destinies are common. It is never like today that the task of politics is to restore the public's awareness of this challenge. When I first entered the Chamber as a senator yesterday, I was struck by the fresco on the ceiling, which I invite you to look at. It contains four words, which have always been of great inspiration for my life and which I hope will be every day for each of us in the work we will face: justice, justice, fortitude and harmony. That harmony, that social peace that the country now desperately needs. Tomorrow is the anniversary of the Unity of Italy, that March 17, 152 years ago in which our history began as a national community after a long and difficult journey of unification. In 152 years of our history, especially in the most difficult moments, we have been able to unite, overcome differences, firmly affirm our common values and find together a shared path. The first thought certainly goes to the constituent phase of our Republic, when men and women of different cultures have been able to give us what is still today considered one of the most beautiful and most modern constitutional charters in the world. [[Applause]] Let me remember Teresa Mattei right now. [[The Assembly stands. Live, prolonged applause]] Teresa Mattei, who left us a few days ago and who of the constituent assembly was the youngest woman elected, has been active throughout her life to assert and defend the rights of women, all too often trampled on even in our country. We are faced with an extraordinary historical passage: we have a duty to be aware of it, the right and responsibility to indicate a possible change, because it is at stake the quality of democracy that we are experiencing. At the same time we must start a long-term journey, we must really start a new constituent phase that can amaze and amaze us. Today is March 16th, and I can only thank President Colombo who this morning moved us with the memory of the anniversary of the abduction of Aldo Moro [[The Assembly stands. Live, prolonged applause]] and the massacre of Via Fani where they found death - as he himself recalled - the five escort agents Raffaele Jozzino, Oreste Leonardi, Domenico Ricci, Giulio Rivera and Francesco Zizzi. To their sacrifice as servants of the State goes our respectful and moved homage. [[General applause]] Today we must restore dignity and resources to law enforcement and the judiciary. 35 years have passed since that tragic day, which was not only the drama of a man and a family, but of the whole country. In Aldo Moro the brigadeist terrorism identified the most conscious enemy of a truly reformer project: the man and the political leader who had understood the need and hopes of regeneration that animated from the depths and tormented Italian society. As Moro wrote in his youthful essay, "Perhaps man's destiny is not to realize justice fully, but to have perpetually of righteousness hunger and thirst. But it is always a great destiny. Today, moreover, thousands of young people in Florence participated in the Day of Memory and Commitment in memory of the victims of the Mafia. [[Applause]] I confess to you that I was very sorry not to be with them, as every year. They have pronounced and listened to over 900 names of victims of organised crime: names of citizens, members of the police, trade unionists, politicians, local administrators, journalists, priests, entrepreneurs, magistrates, innocent people killed in the midst of their lives. Their commitment, their sacrifice, their example must be our lighthouse. I have dedicated my life to the fight against the Mafia as a magistrate and I must tell you that, after I resigned from the judiciary, I thought I could be useful to the country because of my professional experience in the world of justice. But life always holds surprises. Today I am interpreting this new and unexpected commitment of my own in a spirit of service, to contribute to the solution of the problems of this country. I have always sought truth and justice and will continue to seek them from this scranno, hoping that a new Commission of Inquiry will be set up on all the unsolved massacres of our country. [[Applause]] If today, in front of you, I had to choose a time to collect the history of my previous professional life, I would not just mention the friends and colleagues who fell in defense of democracy and the rule of law, which I knew: in fact, there is not a single name, a face, that can enclose them all and unfortunately, if I had to quote them all, the list would be - alas! - Too long. Rather, I come to mind and heart a moment that embraces them one by one: it is the memory of the voice and words of a young woman. I am referring to the tormented pain of Rosaria Costa, the wife of Agent Vito Schifani, who died together with his colleagues Rocco Dicillo and Antonino Montinaro in the massacre of Capaci on 22 May 1992, in which Giovanni Falcone and Francesca Morvillo also lost their lives. I did not forget his words on the day of her husband's funeral, that microphone ripped from the rites and conventions of the ceremonies. [[The Senators elected on the lists "Movement 5 Stars Cricket" stand]] First of all, I ask that justice be done now. Addressing me to the men of the Mafia, because there are in here (and not), but certainly not Christians, know that there is also a possibility of forgiveness for you: I forgive you, but you must get on your knees, if you have the courage to change. (...) they do not change (...) they do not want to change. (...) We ask you (...) to work also for peace, justice, hope and love for all (...). [[The Assembly stands. Live, prolonged applause]] Justice and change: this is the challenge ahead. We are waiting for intense joint work, to respond with the facts to the expectations of citizens who first ask for more social justice, more ethical, in the awareness that work is one of the main problems of this country. I am thinking of the answers which, as soon as possible - and it is already late - we will have to give to the unemployed, to the Cassaintegrati, to the exodati, to the enterprises, to all those young people who live a life in half, have uncertain prospects, jobs (who has it) little paid. When they get out of their parents' house, they live in apartments they can't buy, trying to build a family they don't know how to support. I am thinking of the unsustainable situation of our country's prisons, which need priority intervention. [[Applause]] I am thinking of a justice that today must be reformed in an organic way, of immigrants who are looking here for a hope of the future, of rights as such that cannot be bestowed with the blackmail of duty and that cannot know limits, otherwise they become privileges. [[Applause]] I am thinking of the institutions on the ground, the mayors of the municipalities who are suffering and struggling to guarantee the essential services to their citizens. [[Applause]] Let them know that the state is on their side and that our commitment will be to make the greatest effort to guarantee them the oxygen they need. I am thinking of the world of school, in whose classrooms the future of our country is facing every day, and of the teachers who, in a thousand difficulties, commit themselves to forming active and responsible citizens. I am thinking of our position on the European scenario. We are among the founding countries of the Union and our task is to bring the needs and needs of citizens into the Community institutions. Europe is not only currency and economy: it must also be the meeting of peoples and cultures. [[Applause from the elected senators on the Democratic Party's lists]] I am thinking of this policy, which I have just approached, which needs to be changed and rethought from the depths of its costs, its rules, its rites, its customs, its image, responding to the signals that the citizens have sent us, send us and continue to send us on every occasion. I dream that this House will become a glass house and that this choice will infect all the other institutions. [[Applause]] How radical and urgent the time of change proves this by the choice of the new Pontiff, Pope Francis [[The Assembly stands. Extended applause]] , whose first acts highlighted priority attention to the real needs of people. In conclusion, I wish to address on behalf of the Assembly of Senators and my staff a respectful greeting to the President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano [[The Assembly stands and applauds, with the exception of the Senators elected on the lists "Movement 5 Stars Cricket"]] , supreme guarantor of the Constitution and of Italian unity, who wisely and firmly exercises his mandate as Head of State. I would also like to thank my predecessor, Senator Renato Schifani, for his efforts in the service of this House. [[The Assembly stands, with the exception of the senators elected on the lists "Movement 5 Stars Cricket". Applause at Senator Schifani's address.]] A special tribute and a greeting address to the President emeritus of the Republic, the other senators for life, including Emilio Colombo [[The Assembly stands. Applause at Senator Colombo's address]] , which presided with inexhaustible energy at the beginning of this XVII legislature: he, who saw the Republic born by participating in the work of the constituent Assembly. I conclude by recalling what the head of the education office of the court of Palermo, Antonino Caponnetto, told me. [[Applause]] , just before entering the courtroom of the maxi-trial against the Mafia: Be strong, boy, go forward straight back and head high and follow only the voice of your conscience. I am sure that it would have been repeated to all of us at this time and in this House. [[The Assembly stands. Live, prolonged applause.]] One more moment of patience. The day was long and exciting. I would ask my fellow Members to pay attention to the following communications.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u31	Pursuant to Rule 15 of the Rules of Procedure, the parliamentary groups are convened on Tuesday 19 March at 3 p.m. to proceed to their constitution if they have not done so before.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u32	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups is convened for Tuesday 19 March at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u33	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-2.ana.u34	The Senate will meet again in public session on Thursday 21 March, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.22 p.m.
