ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:37 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Alberti CASELLATI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9.41 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u4	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the bicameral parliamentary committees already convened on 25 July 2013 - whose constituent sessions did not take place - are again convened, for their constitution, tomorrow, Thursday, 1 August, at Palazzo San Macuto, in Via del Seminario, according to the following timetables: - 8 o'clock, Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs and Parliamentary Commission on Simplification; - 14.30, Parliamentary Committee on Childhood and Adolescence, Schengen Parliamentary Committee, Parliamentary Committee on Managing Bodies and Parliamentary Committee on Tax Administration. I also communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, delegations to the NATO Parliamentary Assemblies, Council of Europe, INCE and OSCE, already convened on 25 July 2013 - whose constituent sessions did not take place - are again convened for their constitution, again on the day of tomorrow, according to the following timetable: - 8 o'clock, delegation Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, at the headquarters of Palazzo Valdina, Sala Soprachiesa; - 8 o'clock, delegation NATO Parliamentary Assembly, at the Senate of the Republic, Hall of the 6th Permanent Commission, mezzanine floor of Palazzo Carpegna; - 14.30, delegation OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, at the headquarters of Palazzo Valdina, Sala Soprachiesa; - 15 o'clock, delegation INCE Parliamentary Assembly, at the headquarters of Palazzo Valdina, Sala Soprachiesa.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 890.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u8	GATTI, rapporteur. Madam President, since the Budget Committee has not finished its work, I would ask for a brief suspension until it gives its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u9	All right, Senator Cats. I'm suspending the session for 15 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.43 a.m. and resumed at 10.07 a.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, awaiting the opinion of the 5th Commission, which is too late to arrive, I will suspend the sitting again until 10.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.07 a.m. and resumed at 10.29 a.m.) Let's resume our work. I call on the Senator Secretary to read the 5th Commission's opinion on the amendments previously proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u10	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the additional amendments 10.0,200 (text 2) and 11.35 (text 2) relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, expresses, as far as it is competent, on amendment 10.0,200 (text 2) opinion of nothing precludes conditional, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, the insertion, in the second paragraph, after the word: "intermediate" of the following: ", in compliance with the financial balance of each institution,". The opinion on amendment 11.35 (text 2) is also conditional, in accordance with the same constitutional rule, on the inclusion, at the end of paragraph 12-d, of the following period: "The State guarantee referred to in paragraph 12-a and following shall become effective when the resources to be allocated to the Fund referred to in this paragraph are identified.". As corrected by the opinion expressed above, it gives an opinion of simple opposition to point (e) of proposal 7,800, remaining an opinion of null and void on the remaining parts of the proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u11	I therefore call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to take another decision on the amendments previously provided for.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u12	I am in favour of Amendments 7,800 and 7,16. I am also in favour of Amendments 10.0,200 (text 2) and 11.35 (text 2) when reworded as indicated by the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u13	Madam President, the Government agrees with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u14	In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 7,800/1 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 7,800.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u17	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, we are asking for the vote. I would also ask you, if possible, to proceed less quickly so that you can understand exactly what amendments are put to the vote, since these are amendments relating to several articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u18	It's okay. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of amendment 7,800, tabled by the Government. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 890 PRESIDENT. Amendment 7.16 is therefore incorporated. Let us turn to Amendment 10.0.200 (text 2). Does Senator Mussolini accept the reformulation indicated by the Budget Commission? Mussolini (PdL). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.0.200 (text 3). Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Ghedini Rita, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 10.0.200 (text 3), tabled by Senator Sacconi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 890 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to Amendment No 11.35 (text 2), on which the Budget Committee has indicated a rewording. Senator Santini, do you accept this? SANTINI (PD). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u21	Mr Azzollini (PdL). Madam President, Amendment No 11.35 (text 3) is extremely important in terms of the financial aspects of, and provides for, a procedure which allows for the extension of the payment of public administration's debts to private individuals. The budget committee first posed a very serious problem. This measure is accompanied by a regularly boiled technical report without our condition, and frankly I believe that these technical reports - I say this very clearly - must be seen more carefully, because the fundamental principle of coverage is that of the contextuality between burden and cover. Using in the technical report the future - the burdens will be " - is not good. Since there are so many disputes, it is clear that Parliament is responsible for these issues. We read the technical reports carefully, and in almost all cases we agree, but the ultimate responsibility lies with Parliament when it examines the issue of charges and cover. We, at least on matters of such great importance, would like to have a technical support absolutely argued and in strict line with the dictation of the law of accounting. We have therefore tabled the amendment with one condition: we hope that we have done so precisely and, if necessary, when we review the measure we could even improve it, always fully understanding the spirit of this amendment, because perhaps it deserves further study. Still this morning, Madam President, we have discussed this, and you know what conditions. In these cases, we need the technical support we have absolutely argued for, on the basis of which we can make a decision that is made with full knowledge of the technical elements and the political will: this is fundamental for these major amendments, as well as for the great drafts of the law. Therefore, with the formulation of the condition we have tried to bring back the contextuality between the burden and the cover. We have done this by common accord and, as you can see, the rapporteur has accepted the condition; on the other hand, she has participated in the work of the Budget Commission: we have discussed it carefully, and it has gone well. However, I must point out here that this procedure for financing the payment of debts is not an ordinary procedure, because it does not go through the annual budget: this is in order to incur only very partially the deficit. I note that we have just come out of the excessive deficit procedure and we all want not to go back there. As is well known, the release of these payments, for their capital part, affects the deficit; this amendment excludes them: therefore, it is consistent with this approach, but I think it was right to stress it. But there is also a European issue for current payments: there is no authorization to directly affect debt except through a series of negotiations that the Government is also doing in the European Union. It is true that here, correctly, paragraph 12‐d, refers to the procedure that authorized us to unblock the 40 billion, which is that provided for by paragraph 9 -bis of article 7 of the so-called decree-law unlocks payments (i refer to Decree-Law 8 April 2013, n. 35, converted by law 6 June 2013, n. 64). But I feel the need to stress this again, because, as you know, there is the forecast of the Update Note for the Economic and Financial Document and that is the result of Parliament's re-approval of the quantities that are then controlled by Europe and that are, in particular, the deficit and then the balances that are fixed by the Update Note. The reference to paragraph 12-d of that procedure is therefore useful, appropriate and correct. I would like to stress once again that in order to remain in Parliament's proceedings, which, for this amendment too, since it is a payment on debt and not on deficit, it is necessary that the procedure as a whole, when that Fund is to be activated, has been put into effect; otherwise that rule would be useless. Then we solved a significant part: that of the contextuality between burden and cover. In amendment 11.35 (text 3) two questions are correctly referred to: in paragraph 12-b the exclusion of capital payments, which - as we know - directly affect the deficit; in paragraph 12-d the procedure "mother" is correctly resumed, let's call it that referred to in paragraph 9-a of Article 7 of Decree-Law No 35 of 2013. I feel it is necessary to point out that for the operation of this amendment too, it is necessary to complete all the procedure that starts from the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document, and then to arrive at all the initiatives, both political and technical, agreed also with the European Union in order to allow the release of the funds of this amendment. I spoke about this because we discussed it in the Commission - and I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their thorough examination - and because it is clear that we in Parliament have tried, in one way or another, to make a coherent approach and, on the other hand, to set a course which is carefully followed, by dealing with very important figures, to the procedures identified during legislative initiatives. I apologise - (I say this, Madam President, also for the task of protecting the presidency of the Senate, which is the responsibility of the President of the Budget Commission) - but I will call on the General Accountant of the State to do the technical reports well. They must be done well because the Budget Commission must be able to operate on the basis of rigorous technical support to make its choice, which is then technical and political. If one of these pillars is missing, as you know, Madam President, things are not going well. This is a guarantee of Parliament as a whole and of the excellent work that is being done here. [[Applause from the PDL, PD and LAG groups and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u22	I would like to thank President Azzollini for having taken account of the work he has done in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u25	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, in view of President Azzollini's speech, I would like to take the opportunity to ask whether the technical report on the decree we asked for yesterday was filed, given that we were talking about the importance of this document. I also wondered, as regards the decree on ecobonus, that will return to the Senate very modified by the House, if the technical report was filed by the Accounting. I would like to know whether President Azzollini can also call on the Accounting Office for these two reports. Mr Azzollini (PdL). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let us take care, however, of the decree-law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u28	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the opinion on Amendment No 11.35 (text 3) on which Mr Azzollini has made some clarifications. We wonder how this discrepancy between the General Accounting of the State and the opinion of the Budget Commission is possible: something is not right and should be clarified before we vote on this amendment. It does, however, help businesses - and we do not back down - but perhaps we should stop a little more on the procedures as they are sums that may be uncovered.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u29	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11.35 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u32	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, Mr Azzollini's words have made it very clear that amendment 11.35 (text 3) is of extraordinary importance in order to give strength to that political option that was made with the so-called decree pays debts, with which the State clears its debts to companies: we have done it with 40 billion new issues of public debt, we have been in the parameters, the procedure is working, we will do the checks over time. In this case, there is action on current debt, not capital debt, and they are not an exificial part of the general government debt to enterprises. In the estimates of the Bank of Italy on the total amount of debt, which, on 15 September, however, must have been certified by all territorial and health authorities, there was talk of 90 billion euros of accumulated debt stocks towards companies. The 40 billion we've put in the field reduces this debt. It can be assumed that of the 90 billion debts of the public administration towards the companies - for the affirmation of the same Bank of Italy - 25 billion are functional debts, that is those that are normally between the order and the payment, and therefore have their rationality. There is therefore a spread of EUR 20-25 billion which probably concerns the current account; therefore, it is part of the liquidity that companies lack and that the State is late in paying. Since we could not make other manoeuvres similar to those of the decree pays debts, we have tried, with the meticulous and important commitment of the Budget Commission, to put in line a complex procedure (but difficult before, that is, in the approach, not after), which includes also the current debt, using a system of guaranteed agreements with various financial entities (the system of banks, cash deposits and loans and so on), which intervene when the Fund is set up to cover the charges, to guarantee the administrations that require the State to intervene in order to meet current debts. This is an operation which has been repositioned, as President Azzollini said, by Parliament. On the part of the Government, which I would therefore like to thank on behalf of my political group, there has been a great deal of willingness on this amendment, which has been reworded several times with the help of the Budget Committee and which now allows us, when the rule under consideration will apply, in the 60 days following the conversion to law of this decree, to look with greater expectation to the consolidation of the relationship between administration and enterprises, to approach that level of debt zeroing that is desirable in every civil and advanced country. This is one of the most complex and important measures of the whole measure we are examining. This concludes a commitment made by Parliament during these months, which began with the decree pays debts and the special commission for the examination of decree-laws, and which now finds its application calling into question other intermediaries and providing a mechanism for guaranteeing the state vis-à-vis other administrations through the Fund for the coverage of charges. That's a good result. I therefore strongly support this measure by thanking Senator Santini, who tabled Amendment No 11.35, for the tenacity with which he supported his commitment to achieving the objective set out in this amendment proposal. I would just like to add a note on the sidelines: Parliament will have to make a great deal of effort both on the issues that President Azzollini has reminded us, and on the monitoring of the procedure, to verify that this does not actually produce all the possible effects from the point of view of bureaucratic correspondence, but all the possible effects in order to actually get the money to companies. We started by unlocking 40 billion, the resources are coming to the administrations and in part coming to the companies, but at some point we will have to know - and I hope that by the year we can close this story - whether we have actually taken the decisive step to clear the debt between public administration and companies. For these reasons, we are strongly in favour of this amendment and we hope, together with President Azzollini, that Parliament will have stable control over the whole procedure and the bureaucratic interference that may occur on it. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u35	BONFRISCO (PdL). Madam President, I do not have much to add to Senator Sangalli's words, so I take only a few minutes to the House to stress the importance of this text and its great economic and financial value. Senator Santini's proposal found us all, not only in favour, but also attentive to carrying out, within this text, all the economic planning tasks that the Budget Commission has had the opportunity to recover. In fact, beyond the issues related to the different opinions that sometimes emerge between the General Accounting of the State and the Budget Commission, President Azzollini has specified and has emphasized very well before how this is the place of interpretation and political mediation in the context of a budgetary balance of which the Commission is guarantor vis-à-vis the whole House. But there's more. The issues connected with the bureaucratic system, which Mr Sangalli always points out with particular verve, still concern us, because perhaps they will not allow us to achieve that result quickly. The example of the Spanish model, which has been able to pay EUR 100 billion in three months, remains before us. But this very text can help us fill the gap and add resources. Then, also out of respect for the Finance Commission that has worked on the text of this decree, in which the amendment proposed by Senator Santini that we all strongly support, is inserted correctly, I would add that all this release of certain liquidity to companies will necessarily and positively result in greater revenue in the state coffers, for the treasury. The virtuous circle that has not moved for a long time, which has not been activated for a long time, is therefore completed, which means that more development produces more revenue. Even through this instrument we can return to balance on that fiscal pressure that when it is dropped on a GDP and a denominator so low, as we have always said, causes dramatic effects on companies, which feel this pressure excessive compared to their production of wealth. We are supporting, through this text, an introduction of wealth to businesses, which regains their possession of what they had anticipated to the State, changing their nature as a business, since they had found themselves acting as a bank to the State itself. So, at the end of this difficult procedure, when we come to pay the entire commercial debt of the public administration (quantified, and probably soon certified, in 92 billion euros), a vulnus that could not belong to a civil and just country like ours. In conclusion, I declare my Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Santini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u38	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to add my signature to this amendment. I would also ask for an electronic vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u41	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I too would like to sign this amendment, which I think is right, because we are at a time when businesses are really in pain. There are still bureaucratic problems within the administrations which do not allow this measure to be cleared up quickly. Therefore, I would also like to add my signature to this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u42	The Presidency takes note of this. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of amendment 11.35 (text 3), tabled by Senator Santini and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group]] Resumption of discussion of draft law No 890
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u45	NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask the senators to leave the Chamber quickly and not disturb Senator Nencini. NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Please, let me not be the one to stand in the way of anyone who wants to get out of this Chamber. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please begin your intervention, Senator. NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Thank you, Madam President. A few days ago Minister Giovannini recalled that in Italy there are 3 million unemployed and 2 million and 200,000 girls and boys that we insert under the word NEET, that is, they are neither part of the workforce nor titled towards school employment. The question that we have to ask ourselves and we have to ask the government is whether the measure that comes to its final vote today can be considered sufficient to give an answer to the world of unemployed people as a whole. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would be praying to those who talk about lowering the volume of the buzz and perhaps leaving the Chamber, because Senator Nencini is unable to make his explanation of vote. NENCINI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). My view is that the basic criteria (which I recall: internship, temporary incentives for businesses, the transformation of contracts into indefinite periods) should be shared, but also that the basic criteria alone should not be considered absolutely sufficient. I like to see at the base of this measure a rereading of Italian welfare when moving economic resources that are mainly directed towards a young generation. We have long known that the two basic reasons why the Italian social and economic articulation is failing and creates negative conditions that do not favour growth and development are both at the basis of a response that this measure tries to give. The first basic reason is that ours is a decidedly aged society (we are a reversed Italy compared to that of the fifties-sixties) and the old societies are not able to produce wealth, or they are with much more difficulty than societies that have different characteristics. The other factor is that in Italy we no longer have a city civic organization: what was our wealth in the Middle Ages and in the Renaissance today is becoming its opposite. In Italy, contemporary cities no longer exist, except for two exceptions: Milan for one side and Rome for the other. If we do not combine these two factors, my opinion - and I address the Undersecretary representing the Government here - is that any measure risks being limping if it does not give a prospective response to this synergistic combination of two negative factors. From this measure emerges another condition proper to this Italy for several years, namely that social rights and civil rights are now held hands and no longer respond to characteristics and divergent conditions, because if we do not loose the knot related to social issues, we are no longer able to respond to even the basic civil rights. I suggest a reading of the register for civil unions that is located in the City of Milan, among others possible, which I consider very significant. What has been conceived as a register for our children has become, in half, a register for which our mothers and fathers belong, because it is no longer possible for those who have minimum pensions to support themselves for the rest of their lives other than by using forms of engagement (I use this term, which can allow a common reading by those who sit in this House and who all the more concern those who have different characteristics from a national point of view). I would like to stress five problems which the measure does not remedy and which it is not right. The first issue, which has been dealt with, albeit uncertainly, by means of some amendments which the House considered not to be decisive, is that of the failure to revise the Fornero law on social security. I believe that it was a mistake not to have worked very hard on this issue, using the measure under consideration. The Fornero law was based on a completely wrong criterion: with the pension reform we blocked 550,000 men and women in our jobs, but a year and a half ago we expected faster economic growth than what happened then. Therefore, we have interrupted many entrances into the labour market, which lack of economic growth has prevented recovery. Secondly, I would like to point out the lack of a forecast by some Scandinavian democracies of the use of the unemployed workforce for public service work within the public administration. I am thinking of their use to keep museums open at night or to carry out certain services in favour of schools or those services that now, in the face of the laws of stability that have reduced recruitment in the public administration in recent years, many municipalities are unable to cope, creating a concrete disservice for citizens. Thirdly, I highlight the lack of a new relationship between school education and the world of work. Mr. Undersecretary, my children probably won't have this problem, but those in a socially different condition will have it, but they still have merit to offer. If there is no synergy between merit and need, we risk not allowing any climb to the Italian social hierarchy: this is a topic that we are currently dealing with in an absolutely inappropriate way. Fourthly, there is the lack of seasonal apprenticeship: I stress the term 'lack', because an amendment provided for it. There are areas of the country that work almost exclusively in the summer: it is not so for my city, but Florence from this point of view is one of the formidable exceptions. There are areas that work only in seasonally defined periods, and with this measure we have not provided them with any form of aid. The fifth and final question - and I understand the objection that might be raised - concerns a general issue. I understand that if there is no support for Italian small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the articulation through which the great Italian employment passes, through new forms of credit and tax relief, it will be difficult to solve the great issue of growth and the development of the potential for new employment. Italy cannot, however, be the only case where there are companies that die on credit rather than companies that die on debt. This is an additional reason to be cleared, with an acceleration, what the Government, in a fruitful way, has foreseen regarding the debts of the public administration to the enterprises. A final issue, Madam President, and I have concluded. There are three factors, alongside the two that I mentioned at the beginning, that persist in Italy: a high inequality between incomes, a very low social mobility and the widening of the fragility of the social base of the country. I belong to a category that still supports the difference between the right and the left. In fact, there is one point that underlines this difference, and it is the redistribution of wealth. We are facing a government that combines the right and the left, and I am pleased to think that both teams play in the same half of the field; but if they play in the same half of the field, the work that this provision provides cannot be considered decisive or final. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Albano and Dalla Zuanna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u48	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, at this moment in Italy at least three economic and financial issues are intertwined that impact on our public accounts and on the political context, being direct derivation of the electoral programs of the political forces that support the Government, and are the taxes on the house, the taxes on the consumption and the taxes on the job. Today, in the act of the conversion of Decree-Law No. 76 of 28 June 2013, we face the problem of employment and that of the postponement of the increase in VAT, postponing, with this further measure, important choices that this Government will certainly want to operate in a harmonious framework of interventions to give a strong shock to the economic recovery that the Country needs. Once again, today we are called - and we support this path - to take decisions that have the form and substance of the buffer compared to problems that our country lives. I must say that this awareness also appears to have emerged from the parliamentary debate, but the substance that we would like to pass on to the representative of the Government, which is the drama of what we are experiencing, has not come out. Yesterday I even saw colleagues or entire groups table amendments that seem to me have not fully grasped the substance of what we are discussing: we are discussing a terrible, profound crisis that has been registered in our country for years, but that in a stronger, firm and heavier way lives 50% of the territory of our country and more than 50% of the population of Italy, which is the Mezzogiorno. 11:10 a.m. (Following MAURO Giovanni). Yesterday the League Group tabled a whole series of amendments to extend the benefits provided by the measure under consideration to other areas of the country: friends of the League, today not understanding that the southern issue is of national importance means not fully understanding that not giving instruments for the recovery to this great area of the Country means penalising the companies of the North and not understanding what is happening in Europe. Germany, the productive engine of our Europe, rather than participating in the global competition for the search for new continents, as the United States is doing on the one hand and the giants of South-East Asia on the other, attacking the African continent as a new field of production, development and sale of its products, has chosen the simplest way, which is to attack its European allies and make policies that have allowed them and that would still allow them to conquer our markets and our productive capacity. This is the moment we're living. It is not a struggle between North and South and between South and North. It is a struggle of the country system and the Italy system, which if it is not competitive as a whole will be weak and will not be able to overcome this challenge. But I want to argue. I have to say that I have read (and I also suggest that you do so) the anticipation of the main economic developments of the SVIMEZ report for 2013. The paradox is that the acronym SVIMEZ stands for the development of the industry of the Mezzogiorno. So we expect from this report something that can be indicative and a trace of the development that is expected. I will just read you the titles of the paragraphs and let your imagination understand what lies behind the titles of the paragraphs. Point 1: ""2012-2013": the euro area is still in crisis. Point 2: "Italy suffers more from the exhaustion of the recovery phase" Point 3: After the failed recovery in 2010-2011, the South in a stronger recession in 2012-2011. Point 4: "It consumes less and less and no longer invests." Point 5: "All sectors involved in the crisis" Point 6: "The performance of the Italian regions" (where you will find that the development forecasts are in a national average of 0.8, but this 0.8 is composed of 0.9 of the Regions of the North Central and 0.1 of the Regions of the South Central). Point 7: "The weak areas of Europe most affected by the crisis" (and you will find above all the regions of the Mezzogiorno). Point 8: "South Industry: Investment collapsed by almost 50%. Point 9: "Work is more and more a mirage." Point 10: Territorial dualism and generational dualism. Point 11: "850 thousand young NEETs in the Mezzogiorno, the waste of brains." Point 12: The female emergency. Point 13: Twenty thousand southern graduates fleeing abroad, more than 1 million and 300 thousand southern migrants in the decade. Point 14: "The population leaves the South, depopulate the territories, remain only the oldest". Dulcis in the end, point 15: "One third of the southern families at risk of poverty". This is the SVIMEZ report. This is a working tool that we would not want to use because, of course, our task is to create hope and prospects. However, we must start from this situation in fact. To do this, Mr. Representative of the Government, we need organic development projects. We need to frame these problems in the context of overall government action. We would no longer like to see buffer measures in this House, which are necessary, but only if they are included in the overall growth perspective. I want to tell you something that distresses me. The region of Sicily, which has more than 5 million inhabitants, in a projection for 2050 will see its population fall by a quarter and its GDP by a third. But the dramatic thing is that the population will have an average age of 55 years, while all countries, let's say, border countries, all the countries of North Africa, overlooking the same sea, will have an average age of 25 years in 2050. These are not the problems, dear friends of the League, of the South that it asks and of the North that it believes that it is too much given and that it is no longer necessary to give: it is a problem of system Italy. It is an overall problem of growth. Compared to this problem, have you seen what kind of action has been taken? Mr. Government representative, we will vote for it because we have given confidence and we still give this Government confidence and credit, but it is expected that they will have facilities for the work of young people who are not more than 29 years old, young people who have not attended compulsory school, or who have stopped in the eighth grade. I just want to remind you that for at least fifteen years there has been no economic development and, therefore, there has been an increase in unemployment in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. The limit of 29 years is, therefore, too low; it should be at least 35 years. I want to remind you again that a Mezzogiorno that makes its brains and opportunities run away (as we have seen from the SVIMEZ data) is a Mezzogiorno that cannot help the country in the increase of GDP and production. It is a Mezzogiorno that you would eventually find yourself all the more in your home. Since from certain expressions we warn that you are not particularly pleased, we avoid and vote also you, friends of the League, the measures concerning the Mezzogiorno: we will derive great benefit from it as a country and, I believe, you as Italian citizens. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u51	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, our explanation of vote starts with regret because we would have liked to vote in favour of a measure which has as its main objective to tackle the problem of youth unemployment and unemployment in general. We would have wanted to do so and perhaps we would have done so if this measure had not been, on the substance, a direct expression of an old philosophy and, above all, a monocultural approach. In fact, it intervenes in order to try to re-launch employment through forms of aid to enterprises and through a further flexibility of contractistics in the matter of work, reaching to operate a serious forcing in the use of training and guidance internships that, as is known in the literature, are indicated as instruments in favor of the trainee and must constitute an increase of its employability. By contrast, this measure is intended to cover staff shortages in the public administration and to promote productivity at a lower cost, with the intervention of low-cost workers. In this case, in fact, it is also a question of skilled labour. We would have liked to vote in favour, but we cannot do so on the merits because Article 7 undermines once again the power of trade union representation and reduces the positive possibility of trade union relations in relation to the common objectives of relaunching the economy and the productive capacity of this country. We would have liked to vote in favour, but for these reasons we will not vote in favour. We would have liked to vote in favour, as we have voted in favour of many articles, not least the one on the debts of the public administration, which we discussed in the Committee on Budgets and in depth in the other committees, or as we have done for the flexibility of contracts in the tourism sector or for other articles that are worthy of attention, articles that concern the occupational inclusion of persons who, unfortunately, suffer a condition of disability. We would have liked to vote in favour, but we cannot. We cannot do that for the method, and why, Mr President, is it worth thinking about? Apart from the size of the governmental production rules that Parliament is concerned with; apart from how they are written, because they appear to be the fruit of more bureaucratic environments, a little out of the direct consideration of the problems of the country for which they are more studied at the table than in the direct relationship with the problem, with the need; apart from the use of institutions of non-procedibility both accounting and matter, so in this subspecies of regulatory measures "minestrone" it happens that something is not to be considered because it is foreign to a matter without these measures having an object, since they contain 10, 12, 15 of subjects. And the next measure is even worse than this: That "doing" isn't a soup, it's more. Therefore, we cannot vote in favour of the method because the dynamic with which we produce provisions that then apply to the entire economic and social system of the country does not allow us to do so. But it is above all at the political level - and I say this with particular attention to my colleagues in the Democratic Party - that we cannot vote in favour. Because it is on this level that a fracture has been recorded that needs to be healed. I say this above all in the interest of the centre-left as a whole and in particular of the Democratic Party, that we do not want to be our shabby ally, but our strong ally to govern the country. The marriage that you have consummated, and that many of you hope will soon end (and many of you work for it to end soon), is absolutely improbable, insane, unnatural for how it is born within our political system, which is a bipolar system that is strengthened by the confrontation that is active between groups that have opinions, cultures, visions, different perspectives; and you give up yours: in fact, in this provision - look out - you renounce yours, there is only a few remembrances, and if you notice the country that you give up your perspective, which is also ours. The fact that you notice this is shown by the polls: while they of the center-right, they improve you get worse. And this is the reason: they are not the events of this or that other political character, however important. It is the reason for your renunciation to represent in this country the values of the left, first of all the work, because this measure is a help to the enterprise, but it cancels the policies of the job. And we have proposed an employment conference for you. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator De Pin]] to do this kind of action, this approach to the problem. In fact, between the egg and the hen I am convinced that the egg is born first; and since I am convinced that the egg is born first, nobody can remove me from my head that it is the work that does the enterprise and not the opposite, because it is the application of the will and competence that has built important productive sectors in this country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Mixed Groups.]] I think that you will have to come to this reflection and you will have to do so in order to save together with us the prospect of this country to organize a lasting development, in a democratic environment, in the well-being and serenity for our people, who today live the anguish for this renunciation. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u52	Thank you, Senator Uras, also for solving the egg and chicken dilemma, which has finally found a definition.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u55	MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Mr President, representative of the Government, my fellow Senators, a week later we are in this House voting on a decree-law on measures in favour of families and workers. Again a decree-law, again the use of emergency regulations by the Government. Lords of the Government, you are not the professors led by Monti who could everything, who were above all rules, above the Constitution, who had been called from above and not voted by the people to play the dirty game. Dear President Letta and Vice President Alfano, you have a political responsibility and a broad majority that supports you, not because there is no alternative but by choice, and you do not have the international recognition given for given but you must deserve it. So, gentlemen of the government, we ask you to abandon the Soviet systems, to start confronting Parliament, to enter into the substance of the measures you want to take with the courage that must distinguish a political government. Monti was condemned, certainly not by history (too much for a President of the Council of such a mediocre government), but by the people and numbers; numbers that clearly demonstrate, on the one hand, the worsening accounts and, on the other, the exponential increase in unemployment, in a scenario of severe depression and recession! President of the Council, you are the leader of a majority that, although colourful and original, represents the people, represents the citizens who, with their vote, wanted - strongly wanted - a government that has political leadership after the bad experience of technicians. Just postpone, not decide, postpone, lengthen the times. It is time for your government to make a clear choice: either it lives or dies. It can no longer survive; a political and programmatic line you have to decide. We in the League are in opposition, but we want to make a serious and responsible opposition. We in the League do not want to make an opposition end in itself; we do not want to open Parliament with a box opener. We want to get the country out of the crisis; we want to give hope to young people who are looking for work, who want to get married, who want to start a family. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We want a North that is the protagonist of the change of this technocratic Europe. We want to move towards a new Europe, a Europe of peoples, not only united by the same currency and not just based on quota participation. We dream, we want a political Europe capable of protecting the differences of the hundred peoples that make up it; a Europe that can be the protagonist of world policies. The decree-law on IMU and cash by way of derogation turned out to be a farce, considering that the problem was not addressed, but only postponed over time, so much so that the same government group had defined it as a decree-bridge. Likewise, this also sounds like a mockery to us. But how long do you think you can make fun of citizens? If only you once deserved to take a ride among the people! Try to get out of the blue car and move without escort among the citizens, among those who elected us (and let me remind you that it is they who are paying our salary), and immediately you will realize that they are not as ignorant as you believe! The citizens are well informed and know that this Government is not able to do anything; it is not able to make a decision, but it is very good to postpone. As with the IMU, an artificial decision has been taken on VAT. We all know that the increase in VAT would lead to less revenue, which is obvious as a result of greater difficulties for businesses. Postponement of the increase of one tax, in order to increase another immediately to have the coverage (see IRPEF and IRAP). Are you not ashamed to propose these solutions? Many words, many promises, but no decision except to increase taxes. You are playing with the lives and future of the citizens. Do you think that these decisions are in line with the much-honored intention of supporting the economic recovery of businesses? So you plan to relaunch Italy? So do you think you are promoting employment growth? If you continue this way, the stability of the country is at great risk. You are concerned about the stability of the accounts, about staying within the European parameters, while you should be concerned about the stability of our country. When a people is hungry, however civil and democratic it may be, it can have untenable reactions. Another thing is truly shameful: to use double standards for the citizens of the North and the South. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I speak as a woman from the North who, until a few days before her election, worked in a factory, and my friendships, even today, are with those who spent their lives inside the factory with me. When I meet my friends, as well as complaining, they ask me: Why is my son who was born in the North treated differently by a boy born in the South? What do I have to answer to my people when they ask me: Because in the South there are incentives and taxes for new recruits and not in the North? What do I have to say? I must answer that, after spending a life of work, sacrifices and taxes paid to help the South, for the umpteenth time in the North you have to manage and in the South the State thinks about it? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I can demonstrate to you with data to the hand that, as for the decree so-called IMU-cassa in derogation, the launch of this measure has been accompanied by striking announcements and proclamations, like that of President Letta who, in communicating the eventual arrival from Europe of 1,5 billion euros for the job, stated: "Now the enterprises no longer have alibi in order not to hire ". The Ministry of Labour, in a note issued days ago, recognizes that this decree represents only a first step of the government's strategy, because the real and concrete measures will be defined only after the European institutions have approved the rules for the use of the structural funds for the period 2014-2020 and those for the "Youth Guarantee." Once again, we are about to dismiss a measure that, in practice, does not serve to boost employment, because it involves partial and limited interventions, without long-term prospects, and heterogeneous measures lacking overall planning. Of the many stated objectives (promotion of employment, incentives for young people, measures to promote social cohesion, etc.), what implements this measure is yet another welfare measure for the unemployed and unemployed in the South, ending up helping to decontribute the recruitment of young people resident in the Mezzogiorno. It is not true that the regions of the Mezzogiorno are very poor, with serious job shortages and therefore need special attention. It is not possible or acceptable that, in the name of a lasting southern question, we continue to waste resources and money at the expense of those regions that represent the driving force of the economy of our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I would like to recall a survey by the Datagiovani study centre, conducted by cross-checking the AIRE data with the ISTAT data on unemployment over the last five years, i.e. the years of greatest crisis. This survey, taking into account the percentage increase in unemployment Region by Region, concluded that the greatest suffering occurred in the northern areas of the Country, with Emilia-Romagna leading where the unemployed more than doubled from about 65,000 to 150,000, and in Lombardy where from 168,000 unemployed in 2008 they went to over 346,000 in 2012. This research confirms the behaviour of young people compared to the work already commonly known, namely that while young people in the North are ready to emigrate in order to seek employment, in the South they prefer to remain assisted and subsidized at home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] A survey carried out showed that the regions with a boom of migrants abroad to cope with the absence of work are Trentino-Alto Adige (+25 percent), Lombardy (+22 percent) and Piedmont (+20 percent), contrary to the Mezzogiorno where the growth of emigration is around 13 percent. I report this data and this research to invite the Government to have another view of things, to look at the emergency employment and youth unemployment also from another perspective, because the policies of penalising the hard-working to support the needy do not lead to anything. In conclusion, I repeat another phrase that I often hear among my people in the North and that makes the idea of the state of mind in which a people is living very well. In the Venetian language it is said: "A semo becchi e bastà" This sentence, translated, means: beyond the damage, even the mockery. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You are only able to mock the Italians and, in particular, the North. For these reasons, on behalf of the Group of the North and Autonomous League, which I represent, I express the vote against the measure, reminding the Government that confidence must be won and that in order to gain it we must move from words to deeds. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u58	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, the Civic Choice Group for Italy will vote in favour of this measure, aware, however, that it will not be, once again, decisive, nor able to address structural issues on the two issues that are the subject of the decree-law. I am referring to the two main issues: employment (especially youth work) and taxation. Of course, we do not underestimate the symbolic value of this measure, which was adopted by the Letta Government immediately after an important European Council in which there was an Italian protagonism entirely focused on the issue of youth work, which has become one of the key points of the agenda. I believe that this is a very significant step forward in Europe's perspective and work, as well as the approach to the European agenda in the Italian Semester, which is being prepared. However, we must stress once again that the structural features of this issue are not yet in the least. Certainly there will be a benefit to the incentive given to employers for permanent employment, but it will not be the benefit of eighteen months to change what is currently affecting the labour market and makes it very uncertain: I am referring to the precariousness of the prospects, which causes employers not to take on young people in the absence of a dynamic economy that promises growth in a stable way, as well as to the dualism of the labour market, from the point of view of both the cost of different contractual forms and of outgoing flexibility. We continue to insist on this issue and we have been very disappointed that the Government has not accepted and has not declared itself willing to start at least an experiment of new forms that allow a different and simpler method of separation between employer and worker and that, above all, they also deal differently with the other two issues that are almost touched on by the decree-law: vocational training and education in the broad sense. I believe that a profound revolution must be achieved on vocational training and a clear speech must be addressed with the regions, because I believe that one of the greatest deficits in our labour market (which is precisely that of the loss of the role of vocational training) is in the history of this institution since this competence has been increasingly removed also from the strategic guidelines of the State, devolved to the competence of the Regions and to managements as opaque as possible. We have made a small comparison with the Government on the need to fully analyse the results of public vocational training policies. I believe that this is an absolute necessity in order to redirect young people towards genuinely productive outlets. Obviously, however, what needs to be done is to get the economy back on track, to restart growth and to make a market that today seems asphyctic as ever more dynamic. These are not structural measures, and that is very worrying. We want to push the government on this issue because all the reforms that can help to engage growth must intervene soon, otherwise this window, which Minister Saccomeni has also said to see on the horizon, will risk not being for the benefit of our economy or being too little, and we risk reproducing what has already been achieved in the past, i.e. amplifying, precisely in times of growth, the distance between us and other European countries. For this reason, the postponement to September, which has been mentioned, decided by Minister Giovannini of the confrontation with the social partners precisely on the labour market worries us, because we do not want this to be the beginning of a progressive expansion that would accentuate this tendency to postpone that seems to us worrying, because we see that the factor time - a factor unfortunately ignored in Italian history, so indispensable reforms are postponed for twenty years - can also be neglected in the action of this Government. The other point touched on by the decree is that of the postponement of the increase of a point of VAT, whose history we know well: it depended on an unsustainable coverage decided by the Berlusconi-Tremonti government. It was decided to suspend it until November, but also in this case aware of the budgetary difficulties that, once you go to see the numbers, become very strict and therefore all rhetorical positions disappear. We have had a temporary suspension of the increase in VAT in the face of structural increases in IRPEF and IRES payments. As far as the IRPEF is concerned, the down payment goes from 99 percent to 100 percent, the IRES down payment from 100 percent to 101 percent. To some extent, even if it is a small increase, however on companies suffering from a lack of liquidity also this increase of down payment can have a depressing effect on the income of individuals and on the other on the economic activity of the companies, but above all it is shown that always there you go to fish, that is that there is no effort to compensate for the lower income with less expense. The last most striking example is in this decree, in Article 11, where the Trentino-Alto Adige Region is authorized, which I believe is not lacking in resources and tax revenues, to increase the additional IRPEF to cover the payment of the debts of the administration. I find this really unacceptable, because if the Trentino-Alto Adige Region, which is the richest and has a distance between needs and revenues, can not reduce the expenses to pay the debts, I believe that this cannot be a method of work. This is a rule that has been included, perhaps little noticed, but in my opinion it shows a cultural approach that we cannot accept. We are indeed consoled, in approving this measure, by the inclusion of amendment 11.35 (text 3), which today the Senate has approved, a very important amendment, on which it has been working for months, which goes in the sense of facilitating the liquidation of the debts of the public administrations assisting them with a guarantee of the State and therefore affecting very little the deficit and the debt, but increasing the liquidity that can go into the system, and that I believe will be the real economic policy manoeuvre that can breathe breath into the economy in the coming months. So the hope is that there will be no bureaucratic delays. Among other things, we will present in the decree to make an amendment face to face... (Brussio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask colleagues to contain the buzz, given that President Lanzillotta is closing. LANZILLOTTA (SPI). I do not pretend to be heard; I simply do not have the voice to prevail. Therefore, I believe that the decision taken today must be very valued, as it is a significant step that can give, yes, a horizon to companies, which see the possibility of acquiring liquidity but also of unlocking greater availability of banks to credit. In fact, it is clear that the loans provided by the State guarantee reduce the capital ratios to which the banks are held and therefore put credit capacity back into the system. We hope that with the work we are doing in Parliament and with the pungolo that we will continue to represent towards the Government, in the coming months we will be able to continue in the work of structural reforms of which we are absolutely urgent. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u61	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, a person dying of thirst cannot be given water with a dropper. The measures provided for in the decree that we are discussing are small patches to the disastrous situation of the labour market in Italy. These interventions, although in some cases acceptable, will not be relevant in the long term and it is the long-term interventions that are essential and necessary. The figures are clear: since the last ISTAT report, the unemployment rate stands at 12.2%; over 6 million Italians are unemployed or unemployed. In Italy there is a third of the 8.8 million individuals (mostly women) who in the countries of the European Union claim not to seek work. As many as 2 million of these individuals are 30-54-year-olds. The 6 million unemployed must be added to all citizens who, while receiving pay, live below the poverty line. There are 172,000 places at risk in small and medium-sized enterprises, thousands of workers at risk of job losses, hundreds of companies in industrial crisis. The Italian production system is impoverished, the companies close, are relocated or sold. How do we want to deal with this crisis? How can Italy face the crisis due to globalisation? How can you maintain your cultural, social and political identity? Europe demands measures to combat youth unemployment: let them come well, but, given the very high unemployment rate, the 5 Star Movement wonders what reasons this Government, the previous government and the elected Italian parliamentarians in Europe have led not to ask for measures to combat unemployment that has hit and hit not only young people, but all Italian citizens, especially the age group between 30 and 54 years. We cannot and must not believe that we want to increase employment prospects, but we must propose them as a solution to the crisis, using exclusively the only resources that Europe has given us. The European directive requires us to reorganize employment services, which is absolutely necessary to put an end to the fragmentation of employment services, as I recall, by the innumerable rules that have followed in recent years, each to protect the interests of individuals and certainly not to protect the unarmed citizen. We don't need two years to reorganise everything, we can do it in a year. Reorganising also means monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness and efficiency of what has been implemented to date; analyzing strengths and weaknesses, you can reconstruct and rethink a more efficient welfare system. But if it is the same actors who have caused fragmentation, we wonder what this will lead to. What results have the active labour policy programmes implemented and entrusted to the innumerable bodies responsible for the fragmentation of employment services achieved? If in the light of this evaluation the results have been below what is required, we of the 5 Star Movement wonder what motivations drive the Government to maintain these expensive apparatuses. Less than 400,000 curricula have been registered in the Cliclavoro portal since October 2010. Statistics say that only 7% of registered persons received a job offer. This figure is sufficient to show that there has been a problem not only in the dissemination of the portal, but also in the computer and management design of the portal. How many resources have been used for the development, management, updating and dissemination of the portal in the last three years? The 5 Star Movement's opinion on the implementation of the database of active and passive labour policies is positive. However, the Government is committed to maintaining the stated and legal situation, starting first of all from the evaluation of what has been activated to date and correcting the previous errors, so that the creation of the single database is the first step towards structural reform of the welfare system. With regard to the apprenticeship contract, we wonder: why take away the strength of the same by inserting the incentives referred to in paragraph 2 of the decree? Why not instead devote those incentives to the age group between 29 and 35 years, and that is without incentives? As far as Article 7 of the decree is concerned, it is destructive, at an orderly level, the forecast with which it can be assumed for a fixed time without any specification of the reasons that would result in the temporaryity of the performance, thereby violating the decisions of the European legislator. The decree also provides that the public administration may award cooperatives a certain service without being obliged by the public administration itself to pay the workers concerned in the event of the contractor's failure to comply. These are some of the examples through which the Government intends to help workers and workers who every day struggle in the spasmodic search for an income that allows them a hint of free and dignified life, as Article 36 of the Constitution would seem to state. Once again, the choices of the Government, as well as those of its predecessors, are aimed at creating, on the contrary, consolidating, the existence of a class of poor workers without rights, thereby betraying the principles enshrined in our Constitution, in particular in Article 4, according to which the function that the work must carry out in society is that of means of producing material and moral wealth for the person, and not of goods necessary for the maximization of profits or of mere factor of production! Work is to be understood as a personal instrument for the realization of the individual and his material and spiritual aspirations, and therefore of society as a whole. In this sense, freedom of choice for work becomes a common good. We're running out of time. Italians die of hunger, the economy is taking steps backwards, companies close, entrepreneurs kill themselves, hopes and the future of Italy are almost null. The time has come to act, with courage, with the strength that comes from the cry for help of families, entrepreneurs and children without a future. A healthy economy is based on rational but above all forward-looking principles. It is necessary to recognize the evil that grabs Italy and fight it with force. We cannot believe that small interventions can change the state of emergency in which our country is located. We don't sell out our nation and its assets. Let us not throw away the sacrifices of our parents and grandparents. We don't look at the interests of individuals. Let us look at Italy from the point of view of all Italian citizens, because those citizens are us! We in this House represent them all and each of us is the spokesperson for the malaise of our country. That is why we must take our role literally. It is necessary for each of us to feel on our shoulders, I say it to our colleagues, the weight of the suffering of the whole population, that we carry it with us, here and now, and that we act with renewed motivation. If Mario, a young thirty-year-old graduate, does not find work despite his master's degree, the problem is ours, because Mario is our brother. If John, a 45-year-old entrepreneur, is forced to close his business, the problem is ours, because John is our brother. If Anna is forced to shut down her textile company and send home her twenty employees, the problem is ours, because they are our family. If Paolo finds himself in a situation of social distress, if his company is in crisis and he and his colleagues are in cash for integration without prospects of return, the problem is ours, because they too are our brothers. If John, Paul and Francis are killed because they are grieved by debts and desperate, gentlemen, the problem is ours. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement believes that immediate measures must be implemented to counter poverty that bring dignity to the family, to the citizen, to businesses and to Italy: reform of welfare; reduction of wages and pensions of gold; redistribution of wealth; a serious fight against tax evasion; incentives to Italian companies (repeat: Italian), not "Piano destina Italia", not sale of Italian brands to foreign companies, not "Piano devastata Italia"; reduction of working hours (we all work and make sure that everyone feels an integral part of society); immediate institution of citizenship income. I'm speaking... president. You've run out of time. Get it done. CATALFO (M5S). I turn now to the Senators of the PdL: no private company must hold our real estate, the real estate of Italy... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. He's running out of time. CATALFO (M5S). I'll finish. The real estate heritage of Italy is of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u64	Mussolini (PdL). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of this measure, which responds to the crisis caused by a labour market which, over the last year, has experienced the worst decline in the industrialised countries. We have been one of the countries within the EU and OECD that had been able to contain the impact of the great crisis on the labour market thanks to the massive use of social shock absorbers dedicated to the continuity of working relationships and the existence of the Biagi law with its widespread regulatory flexibility. Then, in a context even more deteriorated by the continuation of the crisis, the high indirect cost of labour and the many regulatory rigidities, the persistent shortcomings of the education and training system have conspired against employment. For these reasons, a complete response to the employment emergency should take place in terms of less taxes, fewer rules, more competences. The Government has launched an action to reduce the indirect cost of labour by resetting contributions relating to a certain volume of permanent contracts for young people up to thirty years. It is part of the broader proposal that we had put forward during the electoral debate, and as such we agree with it and we vote for it. However, we want a courageous action aimed at significantly simplifying the complex discipline introduced by the Fornero law and we have proposed to anchor this deregulation to the real opportunity offered by the Universal Exhibition of Milan. In the three years that separate us from the completion of the events that realize it we could mobilize widely the energies of the Nation in the perspective of the extraordinary tourist flows expected and the global showcase that objectively will be determined. As the highest positions of the State and the Government have agreed, the Expo can represent for a country depressed and suffering from processes of disintegration the opportunity to overthrow the vicious circle, a sort of catalyst of the desire for redemption that remains above all in those who retain the ability to risk and undertake or in the many young people who can take this appointment to resolve to do what they still consider with uncertainty. We therefore insist on asking for easier rules for term contracts and apprenticeships, whose company training remains uncertain definition and certification, rules more suited to research projects, whose temporality must be linked to the contractual types, the return to the Biagi law for intermittent work, for the widespread use of vouchers, especially in agriculture and services, and for project collaborations. We can do work not only in manufacturing but also in tourism, agriculture, personal services and the cultural industry. It is not enough to refer to the social partners, who can do very little to existing legislation, as has been seen in the agreement between trade unions and Expo Spa. We are therefore confident that if the social partners do not agree to the sharing of experimental and transitional amendments to the Fornero law, the Government will not escape the duty to propose to Parliament measures to encourage, undertake and assume, committing the majority to support them beyond any ideological opposition. Just as we hope that, also through the loyal collaboration between the State and the Regions, actions will develop to strengthen the employability of people, starting from the youngest, promoting as much as possible the integration between school and work, between theoretical learning and practical experience. Mr President, representatives of the Government, I would like to make one last step with regard to reducing labour costs: we use the entire European Social Fund to reduce labour costs, as the Berlusconi Government was authorized for the first time to do with tax credit in the Mezzogiorno. We would make a simple and sure use of it in the results, certainly more effective than many active policies that have satisfied only those involved in them. We live in a time when the dimension of the employment crisis is such as to encourage the search for pragmatic and if necessary reversible solutions, oriented by perceptible results. It is by reducing taxes and rules, as we have always experienced, that you create more work. With these convictions, we reiterate the PdL's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u67	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, we shall be voting in favour of this decree-law, which does not delete the work, Senator Uras, but tries to give it a chance in the given conditions, holding together two fundamental issues to ensure that Italy is in a very difficult phase, a change of system that the economic crisis is confronting. This is what we have before us: a prospect of a substantial change in the quality of our production system and our social relations. This is our challenge; a challenge that we must face with determination, but without radicalism, taking weighted steps in the direction of strengthening the production system, promoting and protecting work, supporting the recovery of domestic consumption. The accusation of moderation, slowness or partiality directed to this decree is poorly combined with the need to gain a new balance, avoiding sudden choices, ideological turns and other traumas, such as those produced by drastic choices made in the emergency, during the two years we have behind us. Under the conditions given, in the context of modest resources, especially when compared with the dimension of the problem that we have to face, the decree indicates a direction of march, identifying a fundamental combination, based on participation in work and income protection the possibility to raise Italy from the serious crisis that goes through it. In terms of access to employment, the "discriminate" approach of the measure responds, as well as to a guideline imposed by the rules governing the management of European funds, with which it is financed, to the need to ensure support to those groups at greatest risk of exclusion from working experience and the continuity of the measure. I am surprised - and I agree with what the rapporteur, Senator Gatti, has already said - that precisely those who are more focused on protecting the weakest groups criticize this aspect of the measure. In a condition that is described by the data - even those provided this morning - it is obviously difficult to establish priorities among the classes of subjects that, for different reasons, are in the full production age - at twenty, thirty or fifty years - to be excluded from work. But certainly the total alienation from the dimension of the work of an entire generation, in vast areas of the country, as well as the experience of precarious, poorly paid and poorly protected work, is the most worrying phenomenon, because it anticipates the structural transformation of our society. It is not only the risk of impoverishment that worries us, but the loss of the aspiration to autonomy and freedom that passes through work, as a constituent element of the project of life and plot of the civil and democratic community. An exclusion that does not affect everyone in the same way: young women, young people in the South, those with insufficient training are in fact the most excluded, and it is right that the measure should address above all to them the commitment to change their conditions. The profile of activation at work, the profile of employability is certainly the strongest in the philosophy of the decree. This is particularly true of the implementation of the so-called youth guarantee, in addition to incentives for the recruitment and transformation of contracts from unstable and discontinuous to permanent contracts. (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u68	Colleagues, I would ask you to be more silent in this House, so that Senator Ghedini can make her speech better.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr President. The latter, of course, act in facilitating recruitment by means of a reduction, robust however transitory, of the cost of labour, but there is no doubt that in order to tackle one of the problems in a structural way the main route is the reduction, by tax, of the abnormal wedge that separates income from the cost of labour. The aim of the Democratic Party is to seek the conditions to reduce it progressively and structurally with sustainable and concrete forms, far from any provocation and above all from any demagogy: no promises are made that cannot be kept in time, no lies are told to those in a condition already so precarious and far from work! [[Applause from the PD Group.]] The incentives will be successful if, at the same time, it will work decisively to redefine the system of management of active and passive labour policies. On this we express a clear option: the technical direction cabin, embedded in the so-called mission structure, risks not fulfilling the urgent task of redesigning in a few months the architecture and functionality of a public system, indispensable to ensure programming and coordination of the levels of service necessary to ensure, precisely, active and passive policies. Our public system is undersized, poorly integrated with the private one and territorially uneven: we have to modify it quickly, overcoming resistances and cross vetoes or modeling complacency, to try, pragmatically, to quickly realize a design that grasping the peculiarities of our training and productive system supports it in change. In this direction, our proposal is to set up a federally-structured agency, which we hope will be welcomed in the next steps of the government. Just as we place great trust in the fact that the forms of labour flexibility and their sector specification find in the agreements between the social partners that animate work the right dimension, the right place to be defined. This is the expectation that we also put towards the comparisons that started around Expo 2015: we believe that it will be an opportunity all the more as within the comparison will be caught together with the competitive profile, fundamental, for the economic recovery, also that of qualification of contractual relations and representation. In this sense, we hope that the path begun with the signing of the Inter-Confederal Agreement of 31 May last can quickly involve as many business representatives as possible and can constitute an indispensable prerequisite for a regulatory intervention, that on representation, on Article 19 of Law No 300 of 1970, that allows to overcome the democratic imbalance that has been determined with the exclusion from the representation of the work of persons fully involved and representative. Then I want to say a few words about the social protection profile of the decree. The innovation of the purchase card, alongside the existing social card, is a measure to fight poverty, in particular the juvenile one that in Italy affects 20% of the children. The controversy, which unfortunately the Group of the North League continues to repeat, on the territorial distribution of resources does not apply: resources must be used where, with all the evidence, the need is greater and not competing with those who are poorer and those who need more development measures! [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is not by encouraging the fragmentation of the country and the territorial gap that we will solve the problem of development that looks at us all together: from the crisis we leave only if the country is united and has a single objective. We have also made a special effort in this House to increase full integration into the work of people with disabilities. There's a vulnus on this, colleagues. The Court of Justice has condemned us for being an inadequate country to guarantee equal rights for people with disabilities. Having introduced measures with the amendments in this decree to overcome this deficit makes us think that we have not worked at all. That the process of the occupational inclusion of young people can pass through the social commitment is evidenced by many approved amendments, which promote employment through the social infrastructure of the Mezzogiorno, the recovery to the legal economy of the confiscated goods, the corporate tutoring. Another important role, and we are pleased that this has happened, has the refinancing of the national fund for civil service, on which can pass both an improvement of the civil participation in our country and processes of activation to the work of the young people. With regard to the choices regarding taxation, the measure operates an indispensable postponement not only to overlook a deadline, which ignored in its effects would have produced a further unsustainable compression of domestic consumption, but also to define appropriate and thoughtful choices and an overall redefinition of the fiscal profile of our country. We also finally approved this morning an amendment on which we had great expectations. The further release of the mechanism for the payment of public debt gives us hope to put the economy back on track, also through this instrument. The commitments that the Government has made for the next few weeks with respect to the definition of the balances that must characterize some fundamental choices on IMU, VAT and social shock absorbers say that we must, at this stage, give a sign of the country that we want. We want a serious country in compliance with commitments and in keeping with the accounts, in which coexistence and democracy is based on the social pact between labour and taxation. The tax profile that will emerge from the next choices must ensure support for work and production, clearly drawing a prospect of support for income and productive investment. We cannot afford anything different, Mr President, not just for reasons of fairness but for the sake of growth. This is the commitment we owe to the young people, to whom we have dedicated our work these days. That is the commitment I trust we will be able to fulfil. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u70	Colleagues, there are numerous senators of the 5 Star Movement Group who have asked to be able to express their vote in dissent from that of the Group. We've run out of time. The timing of the dissenting speeches has also been the subject of the quota, and the timing has been largely out of date with regard to dissenting declarations, which also applies to the area of explanations of vote. However, for the mere expression of votes other than those expressed by the Group, I will allow individual senators to state simply how they intend to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u71	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u73	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I do not think it is possible to accept a quota of time on explanations of vote under Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure. In paragraph 2, second sentence, of that article is written clearly, unequivocally and not subject to interpretation, that equal faculty (and equal is not term subject to interpretation) is granted to senators who wish to express a dissenting position by the Group. The same option is understood as compared to the previous period of paragraph 2, which provides for the intervention of ten minutes in explanation of vote. It is not possible to provide for a quota of time on the dissenting explanation of vote, as the latter can only be evaluated after the Group's explanation of vote, which is the conclusion of a general discussion that can take place. Therefore, reference cannot be made to Chapter XII or Chapter XIII indifferently. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I'm asking to talk. [[Protests from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u74	So, finish the Senator Crimes surgery, then I'll give Senator Calderoli the floor. Excuse me, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u75	CRIMI (M5S). I was simply pointing out that there are two parts of the Rules of Procedure, Chapter XII and Chapter XIII, which regulate the debate and the explanation of vote differently. The dissenting explanation of vote can be declared at the moment, as it can be only and exclusively posthumous in relation to the Group's explanation of vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u76	I call Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u77	Mr President, I am speaking precisely to read the incipit of Rule 109 (2): "This is the exception in cases where the Rules of Procedure require the exclusion or limitation of the debate." It is, therefore, precisely the case in question and therefore excludes the call made by the senator. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u78	I thank Senator Calderoli for saving the Presidency time, because the reference to the Rules of Procedure is timely. It is said that it is with the exception of cases such as this, where there is quota.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u80	Senator Crimes, you can announce the dissenting vote if you want to express it, otherwise I'll pass to Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u81	CRIMI (M5S). President, allow me... Then I won't give you the floor. PUGLIA (M5S). He asks to speak on the Rules of Procedure! [[Comments of Senator Bulgarelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u82	Please, Senator Airola, announce the dissenting vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u83	I am announcing the vote of dissent, but this is not an acceptable way. [[Comments of the PdL Group.]] This is not a way of complying with our Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u84	There is no acceptable way or no way. As has already been noted, Article 109 is very clear, paragraph 2 reads: This is the exception for cases where the Regulation requires the exclusion or limitation of the discussion, and follows. Since we are on the clock and because, as I said, the time for dissent, which has been planned and quantified, has been used in a broader way, even for the sake of respect for the work of this House, we may not give rise to any intervention, but the Presidency considers that the senators who have requested it are allowed to announce the vote differently than the one declared by the Group. If you think so, the Presidency will allow it. The rest is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I have taken note of your reasons, but I take responsibility for applying the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups and Senator Buemi]] I haven't expressed it yet! He took my word for it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She asked for an explanation of vote in dissent from Senator Blundo. Senator Blundo, you announce your dissenting vote. [[Comments of Senator Fazzone]] Senator Fazzone, thank you for your support, but let us continue. Easy, fellas. BLUNDO (M5S). Okay. This is the second time I've seen things in contrast... He simply has to say how he votes with regard to the vote already declared by his Group, because time has already run out. BLUNDO (M5S). Yesterday we were talking about a voicemail that isn't there... president. All you have to say is your vote on the measure. BLUNDO (M5S). I also disagree with how he's acting about us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll get over it, but you have to vote for it. We are in the process of voting. BLUNDO (M5S). There are different treatments. I saw the president again today. You must declare your vote Senator Blondo, please. You have to say how you vote. [[Comments]] BLUNDO (M5S). All right, ma'am. I wanted to declare my vote in opposition to the Group's statement of abstention in the explanation of vote on the law of conversion of Decree-Law No 76 of 28 June 2013. First of all, I disagree with the fact that this decree in its complexity... It must not make a mere speech: it must say its dissenting vote by the Group. If you want to say so, well, otherwise I'll go to the next senator. BLUNDO (M5S). It is my right to express why I disagree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you can deliver the text and we will publish it to the record, as is the custom of the Senate. BULGARRELLI (M5S). Senator Airola didn't bring him in!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u85	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u87	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, you will take your responsibilities, but not in the absence of democracy. [[Comments from PD and PdL Groups.]] We're asking and we're... (Brusio). Mr. President, I can't talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Allow Senator Santangelo to do his speech. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, Rule 109 (2) of the Rules of Procedure is clear and I would ask you to read it in this House. If there are any different cases, please state them so as to clarify and be able to carry out the work clearly and unequivocally. Your responsibility is not enough for us. We have the right to move forward in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not according to your sense of responsibility. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u88	I repeat that the reference to Article 109, when it is said that there are exceptions, is precisely in this case, with reference to Article 55... [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). What are the exceptions? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can't scream. I'll call you back to order, Senator Airola. I believe that the Presidency is showing great understanding of everyone's reasons, but there is also a limit to understanding. Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure provides for certain arrangements for the organization of work and the quota for the timing of work. She asked Senator Castaldi to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from her group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u89	Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u90	Please, Senator Castaldi, I apologize.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u91	CASTALDI (M5S). Of course. I know your political thinking, the difference between a man and a woman... president. I do not allow you to do this: you cannot make such assessments. Announce your vote. CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I want to disagree with the Group, but I want to state why. I heard Senator Catalfo's statement earlier. I don't have time to explain why. I answer to citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You must announce your vote. This is not an opportunity to make a substantive speech. Tell the Assembly how it intends to vote in dissent from the Group. CASTALDI (M5S). I don't know if you remember that nine million Italian citizens sent us here. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]] Nine million who preferred...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u92	You have the floor to announce your vote, not to remind us of certain circumstances, which are known.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u93	CASTALDI (M5S). They preferred a jump in the dark with us than assisted suicide. [[Senator Fazzone's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u96	PALMA (PdL). Mr President, it seems to me that, before you allowed dissent, you made the situation perfectly clear and, on the basis of this situation, validated by the first part of paragraph 2 of Rule 109, you basically stated that the 5 Star Movement's time had ended and that only for courtesy would you have allowed dissenting explanations of vote in certain ways. This belongs to Senate practice. Now, Mr President, with great tranquility, the courtesy you are giving to the 5 Star Movement also exists with regard to the rest of the House. And since it doesn't seem to me that your courtesy is repaid with similar courtesy by the 5 Star Movement I would invite you to proceed to the vote. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and SCpI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u97	Thank you, Senator Palma. However, I believe that I would urge those who want to express their disagreement to do so in the manner I have said.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u99	I take note of this and I give you the floor for the announcement of the vote in the manner I have said, not for speeches on the substance.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u100	CIOFFI (M5S). I have some difficulty in expressing my dissent because Senator Catalfo was unable to declare the Group's vote, so there is a small passage that has been missing...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u101	Thank you. Senator Catalfo has done a long, broad, intervention and you offend her by saying that she was unable to express the Group's position. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u104	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. I would simply like to say that paragraph 2 of Rule 109 states that: With the exception of cases where the Rules of Procedure prescribe [...], a senator for each parliamentary group has the right [...] to make an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group [...] for not more than ten minutes. This option has been granted, so there have been no exceptions or anything else. The explanations of vote have been given to each group (it has been granted, will anyone deny me that it has been granted? No!) to give an explanation of vote for ten minutes. Soon after the Rules of Procedure it speaks of equal powers: that is what I am appealing for. I am not saying that this is not possible, but if a three-minute speech had been established for each group, five minutes for each group, then I would have asked five minutes for the dissenting vote, but because it was done without any exception...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u105	Thank you, the issue has already been raised, we have already answered several times. I cannot give back the same answer to Rules 109 and 55 of the Rules of Procedure, which I think is clear. [[Senator Airola's protests. Ironic applause from the 5 Star Movement Group.]] Senator Montevecchi had asked to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group. Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, with this intervention I intend to declare my vote in dissent, because this decree-law, in its entirety, appears too weak, insufficient, incapable of a global vision of the problem [[. (Protests from the PdL Group.]] You just have to give an indication of dissenting vote. I have already said that there is no room or time for substantive intervention. Montevecchi (M5S). Let me add that your way of presiding over this House is not courteous, it is highly rude: [[Applause from the M5S Group. Lively protests from the PdL Group.]] All right, thank you. Senator Fucksia asked to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group. FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, thank you. I always find it very difficult to speak in this House, because I always have very limited times. I would ask you to kindly - I shall be very brief - to put an end to the intention of voting at least. [[Protests.]] You can announce how you vote; the timing is even a concession from the Presidency because there would be no. AIROLA (M5S). It's not like that! SANTANGELO (M5S). It's not like that! FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, you have taken away my time at other times, so I would ask you for this kindness. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't take anyone's time. Will you indicate how you vote? FUCKSIA (M5S). This decree represents yet another missed opportunity... PRESIDENT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u108	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. In Rule 109 (2) of the President's Rules of Procedure. Thank you, it has already been done three times.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u110	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u111	[[Comments of Senator Puglia]] Senator Puglia, we have already answered three times; the same question cannot be repeated indefinitely. Don't disturb Senator Gaetti. PUGLIA (M5S). Under the Rules of Procedure! Under the Rules of Procedure! You can't take the word off!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u112	Please, Senator Gaetti, announce your dissenting vote. [[Protests of Senator Puglia]] Senator Puglia, I'm calling you back to order. [[Senator Puglia repeatedly shows the Rules of Procedure, so he rips it off. Lives protests from the M5S Group.]] PUGLIA (M5S). The Constitution must be respected! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gaetti, you have the floor. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] PUGLIA (M5S). You cannot take the floor on the order of business! (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Enough, Senator Puglia. Please, Senator Gaetti, GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I shall vote in... [[Senator Puglia's comments.]] Senator Puglia, I'm calling you back to order. Don't disturb your partner's surgery. [[Senator Puglia's comments.]] Senator Puglia, stop yelling, because it stops Senator Gaetti from performing his speech. [[Senator Puglia throws into the air the two parts of the Rules of Procedure previously torn and leaves the Chamber.]] Senator Puglia, leave the Chamber then. You can also leave the Chamber. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]] Buffoon! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I urge Members not to feed these events. Please, Senator Gaetti, intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u113	Mr President, thank you for allowing me to speak. Since the timing is contingent, we could work on Mondays or Fridays with a little longer times so that we can express our opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u115	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u116	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, I declare my vote in dissent and I disagree with this Presidency and this House, which gives peanuts... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u117	Okay. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u119	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u120	MOLINARI (M5S). Mr President, I am voting against this report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u122	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u123	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, before I make my explanation of vote in dissent, I absolutely want to dissociate myself from this way of reading the Rules of Procedure, which is made for use and consumption only... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u124	Thank you, Senator. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Senator Santangelo, you too.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u126	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u127	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I declare my vote in dissent, I confirm and disagree with this behaviour of the Presidency... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u130	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u131	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I need to know why this is a case that the Rules of Procedure include... President. No, Senator Nugnes, you must indicate the vote, you must not speak on the Rules of Procedure. NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I need an answer because... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u132	Thank you, Senator. (Senator Santangelo repeatedly asks to intervene.) PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator. Now there's Senator Santangelo's dissenting intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u133	Mr President, I am kindly asking you to be able to speak on the order of business and not for a dissenting explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u134	Yes, Senator Santangelo, but not to ask the same question. It cannot be put to infinity after it has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u135	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I assure you of one thing. I didn't come to this House to make fun of me, either from you or anyone else. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from PD and PdL Groups.]] Mr President, pursuant to Rule 84 of the Rules of Procedure: Senators who disagree with the positions taken by the Group on the subject under discussion have the right to register to speak directly and their interventions are not considered for the purposes of calculating the time allocated to their Group. I also say to you, even if it is not written on any Rules of Procedure, but only in that of the Court of Justice, where you have serious shortcomings, that it is not possible for me, in order to ask for the floor on the order of business, to cry out. [[Comments from the PdL Group.]] It's from the banks of the PDL. Shut up! SANTANGELO (M5S). I would ask for the attention of the Presidency and ask for a reasoned reply. If you do not have an answer, stop working, study the Rules of Procedure and then give me a correct answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u136	Senator Santengelo, I'm gonna give you the answer. I would like to inform the House that, at a meeting of the Rules of Procedure Board on Tuesday 12 November 1991, it was decided: The Junta agrees that it is in the faculty of the Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups to reserve, when organizing the discussion, dissenting senators, regardless of the Group of which they belong, a fixed time in addition to that allocated to each Group. Therefore, there are numerous and broad statements and we are going far beyond the limits and powers of the Rules of Procedure. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] MORONESE (M5S). In addition! SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm asking you to talk about the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, you've already intervened and I've answered. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u139	BONDI (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my solidarity with the Group of the People of Freedom and also my appreciation of you, Mr President, for how you are doing our work. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] I do not know, ladies and gentlemen of the Five Star Movement, if you realize that you are making a bad figure today in the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]] I say this with great respect for your political commitment, but remembering that there are two dimensions in politics: there is the formal one... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] BULGARRELLI (M5S). What's Senator Bondi doing the surgery on? What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let Senator Bondi finish. Please, Senator Bondi. BONDI (PdL). As I said, there is a formal dimension, which is what you appeal to - the Rules of Procedure - and which is also very justified. But there is also a substantial dimension. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u140	Colleagues, allow Senator Bondi to finish his speech and then we will proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u141	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Why did you give him the floor? BONDI (PdL). There is a substantial dimension to which we will all be attentive... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u142	Allow Senator Bondi to conclude his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u143	[[Comments from the PdL Group.]] BONDI (PdL). The substantive question... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). How much is Senator Bondi talking? How much can my colleague speak? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bondi, you are speaking on the Rules of Procedure, and thank you for your appreciation. However, I would urge you to conclude, and I urge colleagues not to scream. Please, Senator Bondi. BONDI (PdL). You are giving a proof of maturity that is equal, indeed inferior, to that of many city councilors. The substantive issue that we all... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u144	Senator Bondi is speaking on the Rules of Procedure, but I also ask Senator Bondi to conclude, so we can proceed to the votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u145	[[Comments and protests from the M5S Group.]] BONDI (PdL). Under these conditions it is not possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand the difficulties, and I invite you to conclude. BONDI (PdL). They don't know the art of confrontation. There's nothing to do! [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u146	There are no more speeches on the Rules of Procedure: they have been made and the Presidency has responded in terms of the Rules of Procedure and also with the support of a ruling by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I give the floor only to those who ask to speak in dissent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u147	I ask you to speak in an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u148	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u149	WOMAN (M5S). First of all, I propose... All you have to do is say how you vote. WOMAN (M5S). Wait a minute! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u150	I ask you to speak in an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u151	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u152	They're flying. I reserve...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u153	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u154	I ask you to speak in an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u155	I take note of that and give you the floor. You are also a commissioner of the Senate, please make use of the power to express dissent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u156	BOTTICS (M5S). Thank you for giving us this dissenting announcement. I disagree with the Group's vote... [[Senator Fasano's comments. Senator Fasano heads towards the benches of the M5S Group and is held by some Senators of the PdL Group and parliamentary assistants. Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u157	Senator Fasano, go to your place, which is not that. [[Senator Fasano's lively comments. Protests from the M5S Group.]] I'd beg Senator Fasano to go in his place. I'll call you back to order. [[Protests from the M5S Group. Comments from the PdL Group.]] Senator Fasano! [[Senator Fasano's lively comments. Vibrating protests from the M5S Group.]] Senator Fasano, return to your place immediately. I'll call you back to order for the second time. [[Live and repeat protests from the M5S Group. Comments from the PdL Group.]] Please return to your place: your place is not that. Go back to your place, please. Let's not interrupt. Senator Bottici, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u158	This is what happens in this House, which should represent the Italians. We were voted by nine million... [[Protests from PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u159	You must announce your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u161	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u162	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I too wanted to speak out from my group and congratulate you on the way this House is running. How you kill the dignity of the House is fantastic! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u163	You must indicate your vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u164	GIARRUSSO (M5S). I ask you to speak on a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They've already been done.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u166	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u167	BERTOROTTA (M5S). I would also like to express my disagreement with the Group's vote, and I also wanted to express the fact that I do not agree with the way in which...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u170	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u171	Please express your vote. BULGARRELLI (M5S). In the meantime, you can't treat me like this and give me time to talk. [[Comments from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u172	I give you time to vote, just like the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u173	BULGARRELLI (M5S). But don't tell me: vote. It gives me time and I say it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please do. BULGARRELLI (M5S). This is not the way to treat a Senator of the Republic. Let me talk when it's my time... [[Comments from the PdL Group]] ..and I respect you because you're the President, but you respect me because I'm a senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u174	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u175	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Take it easy and I'll say it. I disagree, but above all from the physical behavior - I would say - a little violent of the Senator of the PdL... [[Comments from the PdL Group]] . .that physically assaults us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u176	The dissenting explanations of vote are exhausted. We now come to the examination of the coordination proposal C1 (text 2), which I would ask the rapporteur to explain. (Senator Giarrusso repeatedly asks to intervene.) Senator, let the rapporteur speak. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u177	I am not going to explain all the coordination rules. (Some Senators from the M5S Group are asking to speak.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It can't be interrupted. The rapporteur is presenting the coordination of the text which is essential for a proper final vote. Please, Senator. GATTI, rapporteur. I do not want to explain all the coordination rules, but I think that Senator Azzollini should intervene on the one referred to in Article 12.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u180	Mr Azzollini (PdL). Mr President, on Article 12, we have noticed a discrepancy in the coverage of EUR 150,000, which we have corrected precisely. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u181	Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1 (text 2) tabled by the rapporteurs. It's approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us proceed to the counter-test, in order to avoid any unnecessary discussion. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the final vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u183	We're voting, Senator. What do you want to intervene on?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u184	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]] CASTALDI (M5S). For solidarity with the Puglia citizen...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u185	We are voting. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: With the amendment of Decree-Law No 76 of 28 June 2013 on first urgent measures to promote employment, particularly youth, social cohesion, as well as on Value Added Tax (VAT) and other urgent financial measures, the Presidency will be entitled to make any further changes in formal coordination if necessary. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 271 Senators voting 270 Majority 136 Favorable 203 Contrars 35 Absent 32]] The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD, PdL, SCpI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u186	The next item is the debate on draft law No 941, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Tomaselli and Bruni, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli. (Prolonged brussio).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u187	Mr President, even in the House's excitement...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u188	Please be patient and start talking, so it helps us to promote the exit of those who want to go out and the permanence of those who are interested in the topic. I apologize, but I would ask you to help us continue the work by starting to explain your report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u189	Mr Tomaselli, rapporteur. Madam President, we are at the third decree in twelve months, which deals in particular, even within a general regulatory framework, with the fate of the Ilva plant in Taranto. With the first decree of 7 August last year, the Government at the time intended to intervene in order to face the serious environmental and health situation of the site of national interest of Taranto, implementing the protocol of understanding between Ministries and territorial authorities in which were previewed important interventions aimed at the environmental rehabilitation of the area of Taranto and the productive and infrastructural redevelopment of the area of the plant Ilva. On December 3rd...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u190	Colleagues, it was an intense morning. I pray to those who are not interested in leaving the Chamber to allow others - I hope most - to listen to Senator Tomaselli's report. In this way, we shall discuss the other decree on the agenda and the proceedings shall proceed in an orderly fashion. I would ask the rapporteur to resume his speech and colleagues to understand the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u191	More importantly, it seems to me to be more important than the rapporteur. On 3 December 2012, the Government issued a second decree-law, which introduced the concept of industrial plants of strategic national interest, for which it was possible to ensure the continuity of production and the safeguarding of employment, binding them to the full implementation of the integrated environmental authorization. Finally, today we are at a decisive parliamentary passage for the transformation into law of the third decree, on whose contents will be discussed in particular by my colleague Bruni, with whom first the figure of the extraordinary commissioner of the enterprise considered of national strategic interest is introduced, whose activity - says the decree - has involved and involves serious and important dangers for the integrity of the environment and health because of the repeated non-compliance of the integrated environmental authorization (IAA). It would be enough to recall the three decree-laws, probably unique in the industrial history of our country since the post-war period, to give the sign of the exceptionality of a story, a real national emergency of extraordinary gravity, and not only the drama of a city that paid a very high tribute to industrial choices of another Italy. We are, in short, a crucial step, not only for the life of the Ilva plant in Taranto, but also for the entire industrial history of our country. Last week, a large delegation of parliamentarians from the Senate Environment and Industry Commissions was in Taranto for two days, first making a long visit to the Ilva plant, accompanied by Commissioner Enrico Bondi, and by the sub-commissary, Professor Edo Ronchi, and then meeting at the hearing local and regional institutions, as well as trade unions, environmental associations, ARPA Puglia and so on. For those who see it the first time or for those who come back after many years, that plant always gives the idea of a steel monster that many in recent years have told and represented with feelings alternate and often opposed. What is striking in turning it is above all the enormity of the spaces, that one and a half million square meters (one and a half times the city of Taranto), largely occupied by an immense tangle of pipes, iron and ribbons that are lost at the sight of the beginning and the end; and then the mining parks: 75 hectares in which huge heaps of materials are concentrated, such as iron and coal in the dusty state, a few tens of meters from the adjacent Tamburi district. In those two days we have seen at work the many means that poured water on the heaps to block the risk of dispersion of dust in the air, the large cannons predisposed to the purpose, the withdrawal of 80 meters of the heaps of the mining parks, the installed control units provided by the AIA for the monitoring of the air, the covers of a part of the conveyor belts. In short, these are important actions that have started the process of mitigation of the risks of air and soil pollution, one of the conditions to be able to continue the productive activity, reducing in a substantial way the pollutants, even before starting the enormous work of repairing the environmental damage produced over the years, I would like to say over the decades. I recalled this information in order to return to the question that we asked ourselves in those days and in those of the parliamentary examination of this measure: how was it possible that these interventions, entirely ordinary and now present in the generality of the industrial plants, at Ilva were carried out only in the last months and only after the judicial events? Why not ten or even five years ago? In short, it is difficult not to have the confirmation that for years, even before the judiciary intervened, before a binding and stringent AIA was set up and before the Government and Parliament acted, in short for too many years, that plant has produced fully, without any respect for technical, plant and monitoring devices now widely diffused. This is the true meaning of this measure that we are about to examine and the heavy commitment that is before the extraordinary Commissioner and his collaborators: to make the no longer viable technological and plant investments to meet the conditions so that this plant can continue to produce in safety, reducing pollutants and ensuring that the protection of health and the environment that the judiciary has established is not in line with the relevant legislation, investments that Ilva has denied or postponed over time for too many years. The examination that the Senate carried out, both in the Commissions gathered and in the important mission to Taranto that I recalled, allowed us to appreciate the contents of the decree at our examination, not without critical and unanimously committed assessments, all the Groups, I want to acknowledge, to improve its articulated in order to respond more effectively to the great effort that the affair demands. In the last few days a strong concern has come from the Government, shared by the majority of the Senate Groups, about the times of conversion into law of the decree, in the light of the lengthening of the times of examination of other measures, both to the House and to the Senate, which has objectively produced a heavy flooding of the parliamentary work. For these reasons, it is almost impossible to imagine the possibility of a third reading of the Ilva decree in the Chamber of Deputies by August 3, we have married the orientation to a definitive approval in the Senate, without any changes to the text dismissed by the Chamber. We have intended to support this indication responsibly, in order to avoid the forfeiture of the measure that would produce devastating effects (which I dare not imagine) with respect to the future of the company, and I would like to see full awareness of this, in the mutual respect of all points of view, by the entire Senate Chamber. It is a measure that contains decisive choices for the production continuity of the plant and for its environmentalization. There are points on which we would have liked to contribute to a further refinement of the text, starting, among other things - I call them quickly - from a more precise definition of the role of the Commissioner, an evaluation of the functions of information and involvement of the local communities, so far assigned to the guarantor, the implementation times of the AIA and the related environmental, industrial and health plans, a more explicit involvement of the environmental agencies, times and modalities of defining the National Strategic Plan for the steel industry. On these important issues, with a particularly timely agenda that the Government has accepted, we have committed the Executive, in the Commissions, to take subsequent initiatives, to be pursued both in the ordinary monitoring of the application of the decree and in the adoption of some appropriate further additions of merit to the text of one of the next measures. In particular, the Commissions wanted to focus their attention on a number of items, also mentioned on the agenda. First of all, it is necessary to ensure more forcefully the acquisition of funding to the company which is used to prepare and implement the Environmental and Health Protection and Industrial Plan and thus to enable the Commissioner to dissolve contracts with related parties in the group which are deemed incompatible with those plans; these points, which we consider to be fundamental in order to really concentrate all available resources of the company on environmental rehabilitation activities. It is also necessary to monitor and monitor the activities of the Extraordinary Commissioner and to implement the provision by which he is committed to submit a six-monthly report to the relevant Ministries and parliamentary committees, including the initiatives to inform and involve local communities, tasks previously entrusted to the guarantor. In addition, efforts should be made to strengthen the financial envelope and the structures of ISPRA and ARPA Puglia, as well as to identify a systematic solution to the complex issue of waste management and disposal. It is also necessary to take further initiatives of constant epidemiological monitoring of the area of Taranto, in light of the serious damage to health found from various sources. Finally, it is from this complex case a strong indication to assume the topic of the assessment of the health impact of the large industrial plants, on which the Region Puglia has started a significant independent legislative initiative that now deserves and demands a certain, organic and coherent national framework. The Commissioner, Dr Bondi, at the meeting in Taranto spoke to us about a challenge, that of making the Ilva plant in Taranto, after the technological and plant investments that are being set up, the most modern and efficient steel site in the world from here to three years. I believe not only that this challenge must be supported but also that Government and Parliament must ensure that it is won, in order to save not only the factory, the jobs, an entire city, but a decisive piece of the industrial system of our country and our ability to continue to be a great manufacturing country, convinced, as we are, that a modern industrial policy cannot be founded but on the sustainability of production processes, to finally get out of the anachronistic dualism work-environment in positive terms and to build a productive and industrial future in which the constraint, sustainability is really a great opportunity for our country for growth and development. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u192	I call the rapporteur, Senator Bruni.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u193	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 61 of 2013, today before the House, as Senator Tomaselli recalled, is the third emergency measure issued in the last ten months to deal with the environmental and occupational emergency of the Ilva plant in Taranto and the companies with the same characteristics and the same environmental and occupational problems. Before it, in fact, the Monti Government had produced Decree-Law No. 129 of 2012, focused on the need to resolve the serious situation of environmental and health criticality on the site of reclamation of national interest of Taranto, following the memorandum of understanding signed on July 26, 2012. Moreover, with this protocol, 336 million euros were allocated for urgent interventions of reclamation, environmentalization and redevelopment in the Municipality of Taranto. Subsequently, Decree-Law No 207 of 2012, which provided for the possibility for the Minister of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea to authorise the continuation of production for a fixed period of not more than 36 months in the review of the AIA, has been issued, provided that the requirements contained in the review of the same authorisation are fulfilled in order to ensure the most adequate protection of the environment and health according to the best available techniques. In the latter decree, moreover, for the existence of the case of the so-called establishment of national strategic interest, recognized by a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, the minimum requirement of at least 200 employees was deemed necessary. Finally, it should be noted - before the adoption of today's decree - the decision n. 85 of 2013 of the Consulta, which considered unfounded the questions of constitutional legitimacy of Articles 1 and 3 of Decree-Law n. 207 of 2012, as had been posed by the GIP and the court of Taranto. This, in a nutshell, is the process of the various measures taken until the enactment of Decree no. 61 of 2013. With this last measure the Government has introduced significant changes, further corrected in the transition to the Chamber of Deputies. The first profile to be highlighted concerns the applicability of the decree - and the relative possibility to decree the Commissariat - to any case of undertaking of strategic interest with concomitant requirements for the protection of health, the environment and work. In order to determine the status of an undertaking of national strategic interest, the minimum employment requirement in accordance with Article 1 may not be less than 1,000 employees; this requirement, moreover, is that laid down in the rules governing the extraordinary administration of large enterprises in insolvency, or in Legislative Decree No 270 of 1999. Another essential requirement for the decision of the Commission is that of the production activity of the establishment which objectively involves serious and relevant hazards to the integrity of the environment and health, as a result of the non-compliance of the AIA. Such non-compliance, according to the text amended to the Chamber of Deputies, must be repeated, implicitly excluding that a single non-compliance with the AIA is sufficient to determine the commissioning of the enterprise. The Commissioner then makes use of a sub-commissary appointed by the Minister for the Environment to carry out his work. With paragraph 1- bis the Chamber of Deputies then introduced: the obligation in the procedure of commissioning the opinion of the Parliamentary Commissions; the fact that this case may concern even a single branch of the company or a single establishment; the competence of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA), with the support of the regional and provincial agencies for the protection of the environment (ARPA), to detect the non-compliance with the requirements contained in the AIA. The further paragraph 1-b, added after the passage of the text to the Chamber of Deputies, makes it possible to consider the Commissariat as a derogation from Article 29- decies of the environmental code. Article 1 also provides that the term of office of the Commission shall be twelve months, which may be extended to a maximum of thirty-six months. The Commissioner is also given all the powers and functions of the company's administrative bodies and the same is true in all contracts concluded by the company. The Commission's obligation to provide information on the progress of the management of the undertaking is noteworthy. This information must be given to the legal representative of the undertaking, to the owner and to the majority shareholder of the undertaking. What is the activity of the Commissioner and the sub-Commissioner, as well as the exercise of normal and ordinary business activity? The Commissioner's obligations, in the same way as this decree, consist in the preparation of an industrial plan which, preceded by the drafting of an environmental plan by three experts appointed by the Minister for the Environment (with competence in environmental protection, health and plant engineering), must comply with the latter's planning. In other words, the activities of a plant of national strategic interest, once the commissioner has decided, will have to be guided by an environmental plan, to whose forecasts it will have to adapt every industrial and business strategy. To be even more explicit: the decree acquires the awareness that environmental recovery cannot be separated from a careful business planning and, at the same time, it is noted that every industrial policy of a company commissioner, pursuant to Decree-Law No. 61 of 2013, must focus on the indispensable objective of environmental protection and health. The two plans, the environmental one and the industrial one, are submitted to the approval of the Minister of the environment, after hearing the competent Region, the first, and the Minister of the economic development, the second. The approval of the environmental plan, moreover, applies as an amendment of the AIA. Then there is a provision on the responsibility of the Commissioner, the sub-Commissioner and the Committee of Experts, borrowed from Article 6 of Law No 231 of 2001, with regard to the offences related to the implementation of the AIA and the forecast that the Commissioner does not respond to the diseconomies of the results under Article 2236 of the Civil Code, except in cases of malice and gross negligence. Any sums seized to meet the implementation of the AIA requirements shall be made available by the competent court to the Commissioner in order to achieve the above objectives and, therefore, to obtain environmental rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Finally, the Minister for the Environment must present every six months a report on environmental controls carried out by ISPRA and ARPA with regard to the AIA issued to companies, referred to in paragraphs 1 and 1-a. Article 2 of the decree applies the case outlined in Article 1 to the case of Ilva SpA, then assigns to the inspectors ISPRA the qualification of judicial police officers and sets a deadline of thirty days for the definition, by the Minister of the Environment, of the contents and the formats of the minutes of assessment, contestation and notification for the procedures referred to in Article 29-quttuordecies of the environmental code. Article 2-a, introduced by the House, provides for a contribution of EUR 90,000 to ISPRA staff. Article 2-b excludes interventions under Decree-Law No 129 of 2012, amounting to 41.3 million euros, from the Stability Pact for the Puglia Region. In the course of the first reading examination, the figure of the Guarantor introduced by Decree-Law No 207 of 2012 was then deleted, attributing the economic endowment of the latter to the support of the activity of the ISPRA. The information and consultation tasks carried out by the Guarantor are thus entrusted to the Commissioner, who exercises the same in agreement with the Region and other local authorities. Briefly outlined the architecture of the decree object of conversion, you can make a brief comment on the whole matter placed to our examination. It is useless to reiterate that, as Senator Tomaselli recalled earlier, this text has been strongly influenced by the long and controversial lawsuits of Ilva di Taranto. In this regard, if we wanted to hide behind the veil of a free hypocrisy, today we could say that all the complications and contraindications resulting from the operation of the ionic industrial plant should make us opt for a rapid closure of the same, perhaps increasing the dose with an easy revisionism of the industrial policies of Italy of the sixties. So continuing, we could then censor all industrial plants (the famous cathedrals in the desert) built in Italy of the boom, with a dirigist logic that permeated the strategies of the Cassa del Mezzogiorno, highlighting the failure or malfunction of most of them; but it would be, indeed, hypocrisy! The reality is quite different: in the city of Taranto Ilva is still a working productive reality, which cannot be turned off in a few hours. The example, repeatedly cited in these days, of Bagnoli, of that degraded area, not reclaimed, despite the spot intervention of the city of science, is significant: one cannot close a factory with a key turn to solve the ultra-decent problems of environmental degradation and pollution, never seriously addressed before. The examples to follow are then others. During his hearing, Mr Ronchi cited the example of the Thyssenkrupp steel works in Duisburg. In the German city, close to the urban area, on the banks of a river there is a plant of the same productive capacity as that of Taranto, which continues to carry out its strategic business activity for the industrial system of that country. The decree bets precisely on the possibility to realize - even in Italy - industrial productions, without this happening to the detriment of the health of the citizens. In order to achieve this objective, however, we must not focus all our attention solely on the production characteristics and the modernization of the plants. It is also necessary to share from a more rigorous and homogeneous activity of epidemiological monitoring and control, which leads the various subjects competent to benefit from unique and objective data. In this sense, it is emblematic the discussion that has opened by the scientific community on the value of the Sentieri project (National epidemiological study of the territories and settlements exposed to pollution risk) with serious refutations from the methodological point of view and of the competences. Finally, I would like to stress that in order to arrive at joint and appropriate decisions, we will need to have more certainty about epidemiological data and health damage assessments. This will make the work of the different administrative authorities easier and will prevent any decision on such complex problems from being reported again in the pathological beehive of the judicial investigation. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u194	Colleagues, at this point we should turn to the illustration of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, which will take place at the afternoon sitting, which was anticipated at 4 p.m., in order to leave room for the interventions at the end of the sitting, which on other occasions have been compressed for reasons related to the progress of the work. Then, at 4 p.m., we will resume the examination of this provision with the illustration of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Nugnes and Senator Centinario and the relevant votes. The questions referred for a preliminary ruling will then be put to the vote. Then there will be the general debate and we will then proceed to the vote on the amendments. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u197	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, I am obliged to speak on the statements made at the end of last night's sitting by Senator Stefano Esposito, who referred to my previous speech, giving me words and thoughts that I have never expressed. There is the session shorthand report if it fails to understand what is said in this House, and I hope that at least it will understand the words in writing. I have never spoken of deviant powers but of external forces, nor mentioned specific figures, which Senator Esposito likes to repeat, probably more for electoral slogans than anything else. I would have talked about the unwitting and not guilty judiciary, if Vice President Gasparri hadn't abruptly interrupted me, as he likes to do only with the 5 Star Movement. The next few times I will have Senator Esposito have the full text of my every speech, so that he can sleep peacefully. I do not go into the merits of the freedom of expression of others, precisely because I am a strenuous defender of democracy in all its aspects. If I may, I would, however, like to read the part of the speech that was also cut off from the Minutes of yesterday's afternoon sitting. If ever the bill of ratification of the international agreement of January 2012 from Italy will come to this House, and you, colleagues, will approve it, you will be complicit in one of the biggest scams committed against the national community and the state's finances. And on all this, a single director, a director who in past trials raised the lack of Italian jurisdiction and now without scruples exploits an unconscious judiciary for its perverse purposes. Colleagues, can you be slaves to this private-interest society? Do you not see that we are reduced to an unwitting instrument for purposes far removed from our community? It's time to wake up! It's time to say enough! We want a whisper of dignity! That's what I wanted to say to end the surgery the other day. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u198	Senator Scibona, I respect the schedule. However, although you have not been there on the occasion before the intervention, as you can see, there is always the possibility to do so and so you were able to carry out the intervention with the contents you believed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u201	Mr Paglini (M5S). One is worth one, it is a fundamental principle on which the 5 Star Movement is founded: one is worth one when there are constructive proposals and desire for participation; one is worth one when one fights for an idea; one is worth one is the very essence of democracy. In the world of work there is a heavy and brutal process of destruction of the person, which is replaced by the amount of surplus work that it manages to provide and that must be increased to an extent, according to the dictates of the model FIAT of Pomigliano or the diktat of Marchionne, while destroying the protections constructed from the post-war to the present two generations of workers. Insufficient and inappropriate response to this crisis situation was the agreement to exclude the trade union representation of 31 May, which reiterated the principle that the trade union ownership was granted only to the trade unions with more votes. At a time when unitary action in favour of workers' rights is urgently needed, the path of exclusion cannot bring benefits to the growth and consideration of labour in Italy. One is worth one is the principle that must also be applied to the protection of work. In July, the Constitutional Court, in its judgment n. 231 of 2013, intervened in the matter of trade union representation declaring the illegality of Article 19 of Law n. 300 of 1970 in the part in which it does not provide that trade union representation can also be constituted within trade union associations that, although not signatories of collective agreements applied in the production unit, participated in the negotiation relating to the same contracts as representatives of the workers of the company. The Constitutional Court has rightly pointed out that it is possible to respond to these needs through a multiplicity of solutions and has invited the legislator to intervene. Parliament must respond to requests from the Council. We need a law that specifies democratic criteria, which allows workers, even before trade unions, to be able to choose freely from whom and how to be represented; we need a law that guarantees democracy and freedom and the right of workers everywhere. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u204	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, I love to speak with such audiences. Senator Ghedini, I am also addressing you because you may be interested, since you are also involved in work. Also because of the need to give jobs to young people and in response to the bill No. 890 just voted, which will probably give these fateful posts, I would like to say that, if you do not protect those who leave, relocate and do not implement our new economy, the green economy, these jobs do not find their location: we can facilitate what we want, but probably empty. I would like to point out the case of a company in Prato, the Wellness Innovation Project (WIP), producer of biodegradable diapers. In this House, Senator Panizza had already spoken, for example, of a company in high Italy that produced the same type of product. The products of this company in Prato, besides being appreciated throughout Europe, could be an important solution to improve the management of waste, transforming them into a resource. The diapers, as I always say, accompany a little 'all life: they are used as children, women use them in a fruitful age and then, unfortunately, as elderly we find ourselves the same to use them. So there's a lot of used diapers that could be recycled. Let me add that, although the products of this company are the result of innovation and research, it is currently in liquidation; this is not for market reasons, not for lack of a valid business plan, but for lack of support necessary, for lack of confidence in the Italy system and therefore of willingness to spend and risk in innovative sectors, for lack of clear and incentive regulations in a strategic and innovative sector such as the green economy. Perhaps the WIP in Prato will be acquired by foreign entrepreneurs and will create the 60 jobs provided elsewhere. So, we are losing not only the made in Italy, current but also the made in Italy of the future. We must therefore listen to those who have ideas for planning a different future by giving them all the regulatory support necessary for real economic development, for the benefit of the environment. I therefore also urge the Government and Minister Orlando to act as soon as possible to protect this productive sector and to respond as soon as possible to the question of my colleague Senator Panizza. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-84.ana.u205	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.22 p.m.
