ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.40 a.m. and resumed at 10 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u6	Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u9	BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. I read from this morning's newspapers that the life-senator, architect Piano, says: I'm used to being attacked by builders who don't like my work. Being attacked by Bondi and Gasparri is sublime. Pure bliss. CASSON (PD). But you can't talk about that at this stage. BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to point out that I did not attack Senator Piano, like any other senator for life: I simply asked the House, my colleagues and those of the majority of the Government, if they considered morally appropriate and acceptable that the senators for life, who stand out because of their continued absence from Parliament's work - as is also shown this morning - would participate in a politically demanding vote such as that on the decadence of the leader of the centre-right. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]] [[Protests of Senator Baptist]] I'm gonna stop here for now. I want to say that I share the editorial published today by "Il Giornale" by Sallusti, when he says... [[Ironic Comments from the PD Group]] Will you let me talk, President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please let Senator Bondi finish. BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). I shall conclude, if you will allow me, Madam President. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, ladies and gentlemen, let Senator Bondi finish his speech. BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Then of course the President of the Democratic Party, Senator Zanda, who is the curator of the interests of the senators for life and the President of the Republic, will answer me. So you're gonna let me finish? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bondi, I called my colleagues to respect your speech. I invite you to conclude. FILIPPI (PD). This is not about the order of business! You should talk at the end of your session! BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). As I said, I share the editorial signed by director Sallusti, who writes: And as always, when there is to be blood flowing without any risk, intellectuals could not lack. In this case they're called "senators for life," like architect Renzo Piano and scientist Carlo Rubbia... VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bondi, I would ask you to conclude your speech. BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). I shall conclude, Mr President. Let's talk about two friends of Napolitano, so many friends... [[Protests from the PD Group. Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). President, shut them up, since you're chairing the session! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bondi, please finish your speech, otherwise you will be able to speak at the end of the session on a personal basis. BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Let me speak, Mr President, I think the ABC of democracy! FILIPPI (PD). Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bondi, finish your speech; if not, I will have to take your word for it. BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). But they have a value even higher than their academic merits: they are strictly left-wing. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u10	Senator Bondi, you intervened on a personal basis. I therefore invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u11	BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). I'm finishing. "Yesterday for the first time since they were appointed, they have honored (as they say) their lauto vitalizio and have appeared in the courtroom..." [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u12	Excuse me, Senator Bondi, we cannot reopen a debate that we have already had. I take note of your clarification. BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). She keeps me from talking. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I'm not stopping her from talking. [[Senator Zanda points out that he wants to intervene.]] He asked to speak to Senator Zanda. You have the right to do so. [[Protests from the FI-PdL-XVII Group.]] BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Let me finish talking! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Senator Bondi is heading towards the exit of the Chamber.]] BONDI (FI-PdL XVII). Ma'am, I'm leaving. You prevented me from speaking in this House. Shame on you! Shame on you! Shame on all of you! [[Comments from the PD Group Applause from the FI-Pdl Group XVII.]] Senator Bondi, I call you to respect the presidency. (Senator Bondi is heading towards the exit of the Chamber. Senator Esposito Stefano descends into the hemicycle and, approaching Senator Bondi, urges him to leave the Chamber). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Esposito, please return to your place! Senator Esposito, please return to your place! Senator Zanda, please begin your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u15	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, I asked for the floor to note that Senator Bondi did not mean to offend senators for life yesterday, but also to add something. Senators Rubbia, Piano and Cattaneo represent the best part of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] They represent Italian culture; they represent Italian work; they are a source of pride for Italians, for the respect with which they are considered in the world. Unfortunately, this Senate and this House have already witnessed - in 2006 and 2007 - insults, which I consider shameful, towards the senator Levi Montalcini for life. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] I use a term with great difficulty, but I still want to use it: I would like to avoid the senators of the center-right not to start again with a system that frankly, is not that it is not worthy only of our House, but really is not worthy of the honor of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). But you're the first provocateur!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u17	What are you gonna do about it, Senator Giovanardi? I remember that we have an agenda to prepare.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u18	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Madam President, I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. JOHNARDS: (NCD). Madam President, just so that the work is ordered and not messy, I only give you information about what happened yesterday. Yesterday the three newly appointed senators (Rubbia, Cattaneo and Piano) were present in our work, as well as Senator Monti. Senator Piano took part in the vote; Senators Rubbia and Cattaneo were present but did not participate in the vote. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). To the vote on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling yes! GIOVANARDI (NCD). I'm talking about the final vote on whether or not Senator Berlusconi was elected. I am only saying this for information, because then each of the senators for life will of course have assumed responsibility when he decided to vote or not to vote on yesterday's day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u19	I just remember that life senators, like all parliamentarians, are indisputable for the votes and opinions expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u22	Barani (GAL). Madam President, I believe that this Senate can legitimately decide - even if I do not agree with the choice made - whether a senator should stay or not, but it cannot prevent someone from expressing their opinion here. The dictatorship is going somewhere else. I am socialist and I fight communist dictatorships! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] So, Senator Zanda, your speech today was shameful. These senators for life don't need your defense because they're not biased, but they represent the country. You have taken their image today, taking part in it. It's a shame. They should be ashamed! [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u23	Following the speech by Senator De Petris, I would like this debate to be closed and to be on the agenda, since for once it concerns children. I call Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u24	Madam President, I say this very clearly: there are end-of-session speeches to express your views, and Senator Bondi's speech was certainly not about the order of business, so it could have been done later. Turning back to yesterday's question, I am really calling for a stop to repeat what happened throughout the period 2006-2008, with an attitude within this House - I stress this, because this was then - of real intimidation. The senators for life - as the President of the Senate said yesterday, and we too have spoken - have the right and the power, from the moment they are appointed, to vote, not vote, to express their opinions and to participate. I do not think that a note can be made about the presences or not, because here we could make a list of all those who have never been present, and I do not add anything else because everyone has understood, among other things, who I am referring to. I therefore believe that we should somehow close the matter. Everyone here takes responsibility, senators for life and not, for what he votes and for what he says, because this is what is guaranteed within the Senate. When someone wants to reform the Senate - as I think everyone will - then they will also get their hands on the issue of senators for life.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u27	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would have asked for the floor this morning before Senator Bondi for much more. Raimondo Ricci died who, for those who do not know, was a senator of the Communist Party, one of the great senators of this House and of the history of our country, in particular as a member of the Justice Commission. But it was a different time. He was part of that category of politicians who respected any opinion expressed by others, and therefore Senator Bondi's opinion had to be respected. I am opposed to the abolition of senators for life, I have said so many times, but the senators for life should participate in the work of Parliament, as Andreotti did and as Colombo did. That is the reality. Mr Andreotti - some of you know this - was there at 8.30 a.m. in the Foreign Affairs Committee at 8.30 a.m. Criticizing then a person because he never comes or comes on a given occasion I think it's legitimate, while it's illegal to say that the senators for life, who instead fall into that defense of the values of the Constitution to which I am bound, are not good. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u30	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to announce that this is certainly the last time that we in the 5 Star Movement will stand up to behavior on the part of other political forces of this kind. [[Comments from FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]] The personal facts are attributable, Madam President, to Rule 87 of the Rules of Procedure and must therefore be discussed at the end of the sitting. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure, you should - I beg your pardon - call on all other senators to keep this matter on the agenda today and nothing else. Everything else should be discussed at the end of the sitting, or else outside this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Filippi]] We came here to work and build. So I'm telling you, this is totally unacceptable. There is the Rules of Procedure and we must all stick to that. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u31	I have already urged Members to conclude this stage of the debate, which has been improperly opened on a day that may be special, to move on to the subject on the agenda. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have the floor, but I would ask all those who are asking to do so concisely so that we can have this item on the agenda on a subject which rarely comes to the attention of the House and which I, on the other hand, believe is very worthy, such as that of childhood.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u32	Madam President, we shall be discussing this in depth. Now, however, I must point out that the Senate House cannot become a sort of barracks, in which it is not possible to talk about the situations that emerge in the course of the discussions and where it is being framed and perhaps even moving forward. Senator Santangelo, the voters decide, and not you, who is outside and inside this House, except yesterday. SANTANGELO (M5S). What's that got to do with anything? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I asked to speak after the intervention of Senator De Petris, who spoke about the intimidation that took place during the 15th legislature (we are therefore talking about the years 2006-2008). Since several of us were parliamentarians in that legislature and therefore present, I recall that there was talk of intimidation - in one case or perhaps two - when some senators, who did not usually participate in the proceedings, came to the Chamber to vote for the Prodi Government, a government that did not have a parliamentary majority without the vote of the senators for life. The Prodi coalition had 400,000 fewer votes than our coalition. NACCARATE (NCD). Even with Berlusconi there were senators for life. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). No, it's not. Those senators elected by no one had been decisive in asserting the majority for the Prodi Government. In that circumstance some screaming and some bout of disapproval was issued. But this is not intimidation, Senator De Petris. Let's not talk about facts that didn't happen. Intimidation is a lot more than that. The intimidation is being made out of this House, by an order that has become power. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] , where those who disturb come under the attention. But there were no intimidations in this House, partly because, if it had happened, the excellent President of the Senate would have intervened and sanctioned them. He called back those who, perhaps improperly, issued robberies, but there were no intimidations, let alone there were in the sitting yesterday. The senators for life, who perhaps are not used to an academic career where bowing is the normal attitude... ( [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Russo (PD). Stop! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). ...they have to get used to the fact that politics - and in this House it becomes politics, unlike what happened in bars during the era of fascism, where they were posted the writings "Here we do not talk about politics" - is made of confrontation, criticism, even harsh, possibly not of insults like those we heard yesterday from Senator Taverna. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u33	Now I leave it to only two senators who have been telling me for some time that they can intervene. I note that I will no longer give the floor to Senators of Groups who have already spoken, because we have to move on to the subject on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u36	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I would simply like to remind my fellow Members that the senators for life are senators like everyone else, to whom we must give the same respect as we do to us. The fact that the Rules of Procedure and the more general rules are not properly used in this House is obvious, and not only on the one hand. I think this good habit has been lost everywhere. Perhaps, after the climate of strong opposition of the past few days, it would be appropriate to recover respect for the rules and for this House, which is often put to the test from the point of view of its prestige and its ability to be the highest representative of the Italian people, with the colleagues of the House. I'll stop at this point. I simply want to remind you that each one of us decides what time to arrive, how to arrive and what to say in this House, without the need for others to be sanctioned, because, look, from the point of view of sanctioning there is for everyone. I would like to remind my colleague, Mr Santangelo, of the 5 Star Movement Group, who constantly recalls the Rules of Procedure, and they make it a waste of paper here and elsewhere. Then let us all restore respect for rules and behaviour, because look, we have often transformed this House, as happened yesterday, into a stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u39	SIMONI (M5S). Madam President, I have been here for eight months and I had the pleasure of seeing Mr Berlusconi three times in the Chamber, Mr Verdini once, in the sitting on Tuesday, and Mr Ghedini, perhaps four times. Also, hearing about fascism from the right makes me laugh. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u40	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u41	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure (at 10:21 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u42	I inform you that the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has communicated that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 533, the allocation of the seat rendered vacant in the Molise region following the termination of the parliamentary mandate of Senator Silvio Berlusconi, has found, at its meeting on 27 November 2013, that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned Senator belonged is Ulysses Di Giacomo. I acknowledgment to the Junta of this communication and I proclaim Senator Ulysses of James. I warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints will begin today with regard to the new proclamation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u43	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00045 by Senator Mussolini and other senators, 1-00065 (text 2) by Senator Puglisi and other senators, 1-00164 (text 2) by Senator Blondo and other senators, and 1-00181 by Senator Stefani and other senators, on the protection of children's rights. I call Senator Mussolini to explain motion No 45.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that this morning we can write a good page on a subject which, as the President has said, unfortunately is always little discussed in this House and, unfortunately, also in the committees responsible for the priorities and emergencies that follow in our country. I also appeal, and I hope that this will happen. Precisely because the world of minors, childhood and adolescence is very fragmented into competences, both institutionally and on the ground, I hope that, by examining also the various motions presented on the subject (and many are the points in common and all, I can say it openly, are the points that I, indeed we as a Group share in the various motions), can achieve a single vote on a single text. This can be a very important signal, absolutely not symbolic, of spur, especially to the Government, in order to be able to intervene in an ever more effective and incisive way on these issues. Very briefly, I will focus on the important points of my motion, but also on others, especially child poverty. Unfortunately, families are impoverished, but those who spend it are above all the children, in terms of less protection and prevention in health, school and, therefore, educational, prevention and support. Not only in our Constitution, but in our society, we know that minors are the weakest part to protect. I have deliberately not included in our motion the references to the UN, the Geneva Convention, the recommendations and the protocols. I did not do this because I want to give a daily cut to what happens on minors and adolescents, talk about extreme poverty and, above all, make a very important reflection on what the family is, what it means to keep the family united and keep the child in poverty. Then, in the various motions it is asked that the State be next to the children, with important economic interventions (which certainly, Madam Deputy Minister, will be included in the national plan for the childhood, where the various points and observations contained in the motions will be touched), encouraging their entry into society and the educational world, but above all their stay in the family, regardless of the economic conditions of the same. Parental ability must not be judged according to the economic conditions of the family, but it must be assessed only if there are abuses or abuses, if there are conditions of discomfort of the child within the household. This is above all the battle that we feel we are doing with these motions. The control of the structures on the territory - I remember it, even if the Deputy Minister already knows - is stain of leopard, because the social services are present in some areas of the country, but they are totally missing in others and are only partial in some Regions. Above all, from the point of view of administrative measures, harmonisation is necessary throughout the national territory. There is a need, within the various competences (this after having established who is responsible for the important competences), for urgent and strict controls on all the structures that host children, because - as we know - some regions still do not have the list of minors that are hosted in their own structures. Therefore, a sweeping check is necessary throughout the national territory and no more must be done, on such a delicate subject, the play of the dischargebarile: it is not known whether it is the proxy to have to check or whether it is the ASL. The Regions say they are not informed: they do not know if it is the mayor or the city council member who becomes guardian of the minor. Particular attention and reflection must be paid to the funds, especially those for unaccompanied foreign minors. There must be effective and urgent control over Community children, who are no longer on the list, because, as a Community, their traceability is not foreseen. Often these minors disappear and are no longer found. There are many minors who disappear in our country, who sometimes voluntarily depart from these structures (because they are not prisons and there is no detention control) and then lose their tracks. So what we want to say in these motions to the government is to be careful, just as if these children were our children: let us protect them on our territory, both economically and in terms of legal protection. We are next to families who are in difficulty, because the only ones who pay for them are our children and our children. I hope that, on the basis of this motion, we can achieve a harmonious text on the protection of children's rights. I also hope that we can achieve another objective: as has been said in some speeches, we have already changed in the last legislature, with Law No 219 of 2012, the family law of 1975, recognizing the child as a protagonist and placing the emphasis on listening to the child in the procedural field, whatever the age, because the minor who suffers psychological and physical discomfort has the full awareness of what happens to him and is very mature, more than many adults. Therefore, in addition to listening to the minor, the appeal, shared also in other motions, is to give immediate implementation to the implementing decrees of Law No. 219 of 2012, because that law was a delegation to the Government; apart from the general principles established, if there is no implementation in the implementing measures, there is no follow-up to this law. I recommend Mrs. Deputy Minister and Undersecretaries: in the European semester that will take place, we need to be present on this subject, on children and minors, because one account is the discomfort of the family and one account is the children with their own individuality. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u45	I call Senator Puglisi to explain motion 65 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u46	Madam President, Mrs Guerra, ladies and gentlemen, this debate in this House is one of the celebrations of the World Day of the Rights of the Child and Adolescence, which recalls the approval in New York, on 20 November 1989, of the Convention of the General Assembly of the United Nations, which has represented and still represents the most important and comprehensive legislative instrument in the field of the promotion and protection of the rights of children and adolescents. I want to immediately collect Senator Mussolini's invitation to make a single device dedicated to you, children and girls who are watching us: politics can work together for the sake of childhood, adolescence and the smallest citizens of this country. That Convention contains four fundamental principles, which I would like to remind everyone why they are really beautiful and important. The first is that of non-discrimination. Article 2 states that the rights enshrined in the Convention must be guaranteed to all children without distinction of race, sex, language, religion, opinion of the child or parents. The second principle is that of the best interest of the child: in every law, provision, public or private initiative the child's interest must have priority. The third principle is that the right to life, to survival and to the development of the child must be guaranteed: Article 6 stipulates that States must commit the maximum available resources to protect the life and healthy development of children, including through cooperation between States. Then there is the most important point, as Senator Mussolini recalled, which concerns listening to the opinions of children: in fact, the right of children to be heard in all the decision-making processes that concern them and the corresponding duty, for us adults, to take proper account of their opinions. Italy ratified the Convention on 27 May 1991 and has so far presented four reports to the Committee on the Rights of the Child; yet, despite 22 years since Italian ratification, dedicated policies in our country are struggling to find space and listening. At the end of 2011, after examining the third periodic report presented by the Italian Government, the UN Committee addressed to our country more than 50 recommendations to combat child poverty, discrimination and territorial disparities, school dispersal, to improve the living conditions of children with disabilities, the reception and integration of foreign children, especially if unaccompanied. The UN Committee also expressed particular concern at the lack of a fund for the implementation of the National Children's Plan and for school cuts. Italy is in fact at the last places in Europe in the main indicators relating to well-being and children's rights. That is why this Parliament today wants to ask the Government for an extraordinary commitment so that at last the rights of children, girls and teenagers are placed at the centre of our agenda. The economic crisis in recent years has helped to create a very worrying picture of the situation of children and adolescents in Italy, worsening an already critical situation regarding investment and policies related to children compared to the rest of Europe. As ISTAT data and UNICEF, Save the Children, and Eurispes-Telefono Azzuro report, Italy is among OECD countries with the highest absolute and relative poverty rate: in Italy more than 2 million children and girls live in relative poverty. Even more worrying is the fact that it concerns absolute poverty, which - I would like to remind you - is calculated on the basis of a basket of goods and services considered indispensable for a minimum acceptable standard of living: in fact, from 653,000 in 2010, to 723,000 in 2011, to over 1 million children in 2012 living in absolute poverty, with the Mezzogiorno experiencing the highest poverty rates. Let us not forget: our country is the country of territorial disparities, which play a fundamental role in the distribution of poverty. Children and adolescents are the most vulnerable, those most affected by the crisis, with consequences that affect their well-being and future development. Poverty, social exclusion and discrimination are the causes that prevent children and girls and to live according to their own aspirations and abilities are the frequent reason that lies at the origin of school leaving: poverty and abandonment are closely linked and give life to paths of deviance, isolation from the social and friendly context. We must halve that shameful school dispersal rate by 18.2% by 2020. The resources allocated to school are unfortunately at the lowest level in Europe: education expenditure, in Italy, accounts for 4.8 percent of GDP, while the European average is 5.6%. I think revisiting this data is only good for us. All economic research and neuroscience show that quality educational intervention, from an early age, for the cognitive and relational development of children is essential to recover the initial disadvantages. Without prejudice to the importance of daycare, also for the promotion of women's employment, we must remember that unfortunately the rate of spread of educational services for the age group from 0 to 3 years in our country is hugely far from the European objectives of 33% and while in the South less than 1 child out of 10 can find a place in a kindergarten, in the Northeast almost 3 out of 10 manage to do so. As emerged from a recent research conducted by Save the Children Italy and the Bruno Trentin Association, supervised by an important Scientific Committee, in our country there are about 260,000 people under 16 years of age working, with serious prejudice to their health conditions. There is also the situation of foreign minors, children and girls born and raised in Italy, but without Italian citizenship, even if in fact they live here as Italians, they attend our schools and their mother tongue is Italian. It is urgent to find, for these children and adolescents, forms of immediate acquisition of citizenship suitable for their real life, thus placing Italy in line with most European countries. Among other things, it is even more serious the condition of foreign minors who arrive in our unaccompanied country, who in 2012 were already 7.575. It is a difficult census to carry out: every year at least 2,000 unaccompanied foreign minors reach our coasts by sea and even to them Italy must guarantee protection in the framework of fundamental rights and not only act in an emerging perspective. But in addition to income-related poverty, which is easier to measure, there is more and more widespread poverty, which also affects those who are not in the statistics of economic poverty, but who have an increasingly limited access to educational, cultural and sporting opportunities, preventing full protection of their rights and a full development of their abilities, making them lag behind their peers in school performance, in psychophysical well-being, in sociality... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglisi, you should finish. Mr PUGLISI (PD). Really? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. His time is over. Mr PUGLISI (PD). Okay. I then signal the device, which we will share, because many of the points listed by Senator Mussolini are also present in the motion presented by the Democratic Party and I remember that on Tuesday Pope Francis presented the Apostolic Exhortation Today we must say no to an economy of exclusion and iniquity. This economy kills. The social and economic system is unfair at its root. The Pope places the poor, the last and most needy at the center of the exhortation calling the political class not to be indifferent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. Mr PUGLISI (PD). "Politics" - says the Pontiff - "so much denigrated," is a very high vocation, it is one of the most precious forms of charity, because it seeks the common good." The exhortation is to do in this community as in good families, who in times of crisis, when they have little resources, tighten their belts, look at how many resources they have in their pockets and, first of all, think of the smallest and the weakest. That is why we ask the Government for an extraordinary plan of action to defeat child poverty and adolescent poverty in our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Mussolini and Rizzotti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u47	We greet the students of the state school "Giosuè Carducci" in Catania, who are today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u48	I call Senator Blondo to explain motion 164 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, according to the data released by the report "Atlas of Childhood 2012" by the international organisation Save the children in 2012 and by the second annual report of the National Supervisor for Childhood and Adolescence (presented in Parliament on 10 June 2013), the condition of minors and adolescents in Italy is characterized by many critical issues. In our country more than 7 children and adolescents out of 100 live in absolute poverty. A total of 720,000 children are prevented from accessing minimally acceptable living standards. ISTAT's latest survey of consumption of Italian households confirms that poverty in our country affects mainly families with children, to a greater extent than in the vast majority of European countries. More specifically, the average national incidence of families in relative poverty increases from 11.1 to 16.2 percent when there are children in the family, while absolute poverty rises from 5.2 percent to 6.6 percent. Poverty has hit and hit the root of the country's development system. For an increasing number of families, bringing children into the world has now become a real gamble and a synonym of poverty. The economic crisis, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, has a strong impact on educational opportunities and children's growth. The official UNICEF data are alarming, which, by examining the living conditions of children in the 29 so-called advanced-economy countries, places Italy in 22nd place. Even more so, we need to be concerned about educational data. In fact, Italy is in 25th place and 22nd for participation in higher education, while for the school results it is found to be 24th. On the other hand, colleagues, our country stands on the podium for the total number of children who do not study, occupying the second place. Let us not forget that school dispersal is, unfortunately, constantly increasing. Our country is recording the highest levels of school break in Europe. Clearly, these figures differ according to the regions, but they are worrying and we absolutely cannot ignore them. Certainly the financial crisis that broke out in August 2007 with a high recession in 2008 and a general economic crisis in 2009, with a staggering fall in GDP while talking about well-being, has considerably worsened a strongly critical picture in the Southern Italian regions: in Sicily the percentage of students who left their studies before graduation is 26 percent, follow Sardinia with 23.9% of school dropouts and Puglia with 23.4%. Nevertheless, there is no concern to protect the weakest, and in fact, in recent years we have seen that there has been a steady reduction in funding for families, children and mothers. The National Social Policy Fund rose from €1 billion in 2007 to €45 million in 2013. What was to happen was the perfect opposite. We know that the funds for education and school services have been drastically reduced and the budgets of local authorities have been depleted, particularly in small and very small centres. We have penalised every possibility of social and Community support. The growing poverty of families has a bearing on the real possibility of providing children with medical care. Europe has repeatedly spoken on these important issues. On 20 February 2013, the European Commission issued the Recommendation "Investing in children: Breaking the vicious cycle of disadvantage" and urging Member States to put the issue of children at the centre of their agenda and to invest to combat children's poverty. In the same recommendation, the Commission also recalls that poverty reduction and social exclusion are one of the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, to which all Member States must contribute. The motion tabled, Madam President, stems from a more dramatic fact: the removal of minors from their family, a practice that in the past had always been applied for justified reasons and after having implemented every attempt to recover the family of origin, while in Italy this phenomenon is reaching numbers that impose a serious reflection on this Assembly and the Government: more than 32,000 children are taken away from families and placed in homes families and other housing realities, because of the numerous separations often conflicting and the economic difficulties family and even more of the difficulties of those single parents, often not by choice. The removal takes place in many cases on the basis of reasons to say the least smoky and based on hasty analyses that lead, with relationships made in conditions of difficulty for the moment they live, also to the loss of parental power. A huge number of children entrusted to the social sector that costs the State half a billion euros per year in daily routes, while the funds for health prevention are missing. A system that in recent months has been called into question by some associations, books and publications that tell of children stolen from justice, by social workers too interventionist, by inattentive psychologists, by an impassible and cold judiciary in issuing provisions often inadequate and with strong economic interests. On the basis of these important premises and considerations, our motion wants to commit the Government: to develop a serious, concrete and effective plan to combat child-teen poverty and school dispersal, retrieving the necessary resources and considering the allocation of the same not a expenditure that generates debt but an investment on human capital, which will certainly favor the social and economic progress of our country; to identify urgently regulatory provisions aimed at specifying that in compliance with Article 31 of the Constitution the conditions of poverty of parents or parent operators parental authority are not an obstacle to the exercise of the right of the child to their family; to monitor the exact number of families present throughout the national territory, in order to draw a national mapping of the same; to predict and activate mechanisms of control and supervision more effective on the activities carried out by the communities or family houses, in order to test the actual necessity, the validity and the utility of the entrusted projects previewed for each minor on the basis of the results on the same child; to proceed to a reform of the social services in order to make the intervention of these more selective, effective and calibrated on the needs of the minor and on the net... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Blundo, please conclude your speech. BLUNDO (M5S). I'm finishing, Madam President. Our motion also wants to commit the government to take initiatives to introduce citizenship income, setting up a plan that identifies the audience of the families with right, considering as an indicator the number of citizens living below the poverty line, and can really solve the economic problems; to find the necessary resources also through the fight against tax evasion and the increase of taxes on gambling, and in particular on online betting; to implement specific social and employment policies for the unemployed and unemployed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask you once again to conclude. BLUNDO (M5S). I conclude by stressing that for children there are parents, who must be protected in their parental role. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussolini and Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u50	I call Senator Bellot to explain motion No 181.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u51	Madam President, representatives of the Government, my fellow Senators, I will not remember all the dates relating to the International Convention for the Protection of the Rights of the Child, because I believe that everyone knows about this. I remember, however, that in more than twenty years this convention has been ratified by more than 190 countries, yet this has not yet led to guaranteeing those rights that children and girls and adolescents must have in respect of childhood, which is often still denied. Contrary to what is believed, the rights of children are not violated exclusively in that part of the world that we call underdeveloped and we see poor, but also in countries that have reached high levels of industrialization and well-being. Therefore, the hardships that children suffer and suffer are certainly a global problem that should not be underestimated, especially in those areas that we consider to be well-being. The problems of children who derive from different shortcomings are owed and necessarily borne by us, by the Government and the country: their ability to grow in a healthy, educational environment must be protected, while respecting their future. Therefore, the importance of the protection of their children, the family understood as the primary good, the starting point from which children must draw safety and their rights. The progress of modern society has been spoiled by the renunciation of those values that represented the foundations of a community capable of understanding the importance of the protection of its children as the primary good. I repeat; as a primary asset, unfortunately, not always highlighted within the family. We must come to an awareness that the acceleration of degeneration phenomena in education today leads to a real educational alarm. In an increasingly sudden way a secularist thought is spreading that finds support also in absurd legislative initiatives, such as those aimed at deleting from official documents, references to the mother and father to replace them with aseptic surrogates. This goes against the concept of family which - I repeat - must be regarded as fundamental primary good, not only for the child, not only for society, but precisely for this structure, which involves a security and a future for our children. Parents in this period of great economic difficulty show greater problematicity in the performance of their children's care and education skills, an already burdensome task. There are extramarital, intramarital, intrafamily conflicts, which then lead to suffering separation and divorce procedures; episodes of abuse and violence within the family are increasingly evident. There are therefore many situations that lead to the lack of protection of the rights of our children, of the children of this society: they are too many, not only of an economic nature, but also linked to social and family conflicts that lead these children to be the object or subject of family conflicts, then finding themselves to suffer great harassment and violence - it is a strong word, but we can resort to it - not only physical but also psychological. It is frightening, in fact, among other things the exponential growth of phenomena, such as drug and alcohol use, violence, bullying, serious eating disorders, marginalization, behavioural and affective disorders that then degenerate into situations of real child prostitution (we have seen cases recently). It is precisely a degeneration of what our society is, of which we must feel a fundamental part in eliminating the negations to the growth and future of young people and adolescence. We must therefore say that the affirmation of the rights of childhood and adolescence is an indispensable asset. I will not repeat the data already mentioned by my colleagues. However, I would like to remind you that Italy is at the last places among the countries of the European Union for spending on family and children. It seems to me that others have already highlighted the data, which are unfortunately negative. We believe that the key points on which child protection policies should be focused should be the first knowledge of the problem, the relaunch of the school as a centre for cultural and social promotion in the territory and the centrality of support for the family. The family and school, in fact, are certainly the first areas where children can know the value and the sense of participation. We are convinced that the introduction of fiscal federalism, in its actual application, can make it possible to register, even if it is lagging behind, a clear reversal of course regarding policies to protect the family. This new regional and local autonomy must, in fact, be guided on the basis of the coordination principles listed in the delegation law that we will deal with shortly. We are convinced that this will lead to the reduction of the school drop-out rate, unfortunately very high, and will help to reduce the difficulties of access to services such as kindergartens and nursery schools: public or private that are (however, of assistance to families), they will allow these children and these girls to grow up in an environment that must be their natural environment, with all the protections and indications that precisely growth with people who can give this sense of security entails. So, family and school, I repeat. Other cases where social distress emerges are cases of paedophilia, abuse and sexual violence. Even these aberrant situations, unfortunately on the increase, must see legislation, a strong punitive law, decided, so that such incidents cease to occur, in an economically and culturally advanced country, in a country that must cancel these crimes from its territory. It is not possible, nor is it admissible to speak again in 2000 of these aberrant violence on children and girls or on teenagers! We believe that there is also an important and urgent procedural reform that introduces the family court. We need a reform that can identify judges who, having a specialization in this field, are able to deal precisely with the protection against those situations of childhood denied because of conflicts that often - all too often - occur within the family or, unfortunately, also outside. A certain and now indisputable reflection, to which we must refer, concerns issues related to adoption and foster care. The same family communities must be able to have certain resources and defined criteria of their role. The universal right of a minor - as the Northern League we are convinced - is to have a family. We are therefore asking the Government to promote a policy in support of the family, as a fundamental nucleus of society, in the recognition of the primary role it plays in the education and growth of children and young teenagers; not to promote initiatives aimed at spreading ideological positions that undermine the values that have always belonged to the cultural, social and religious tradition of our country; to promote initiatives aimed at combating the phenomenon of illegal immigration and at combating foreign criminal associations profiting from the trafficking of people; to promote, including through legislative initiatives, effective measures to combat the phenomenon of child begging; to take initiatives useful to support schools of every order and grade; to promote new policies aimed at discouraging school leaving; to promote in schools specific courses for linguistic literacy in order to increase the level of integration of foreign children; to carry out a cognitive investigation that accurately quantizes the actual demand for services of kindergartens; to promote the increase of resources allocated to the National Fund of social policies by verifying, moreover, the equitable distribution, guaranteeing that in all the Italian cities there is the same accessibility to the provision of services; to the same, also to put in the provision of services; to the courts. Given the previous speeches and the fact that the points of convergence between the various motions are very many, also given the need to act in the direction of the protection of children and adolescence, we hope to arrive at a shared text, in which to bring together the motions presented, on which to proceed then to a single vote. [[Applause from Senators Stefani and Mussolini and Senator Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u52	I declare the debate open. Senator Ferrara Elena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the dramatic figure on child poverty, which has been recalled by those who spoke before me, is alarming in economic and social terms because it is capable of triggering a process of intergenerational transmission of poverty. This is the risk that we run if we do not intervene with adequate counter-policies that require massive investment. In order not to compromise the future of our nation we must absolutely break this chain. We know, in fact, how child poverty is strongly linked to investment in human capital. Parents with low levels of education are at great disadvantage in the labour market and, as a result, their families are at greater risk of poverty and children are the ones who pay the most. The commitments that are being called upon of the Government with the motions presented - which we hope to be able to converge in a single document - have already seen some responses during this first part of the legislature; certainly not exhaustive answers, at least not to the extent required. Motions address the problem at 360 degrees, from health needs, to children's rights, from education; family support measures, including in relation to the legal provisions in the family and public welfare policies. In Italy the high attendance at the school of childhood sees us strong due to the tradition widespread throughout the country. The presence of kindergartens, as has already been said, is rather differentiated on the national territory and the costs of the service are increasingly difficult to bear by families and municipalities, even in the most consolidated realities. Compared to this problem, I believe it is important to increase the funding dedicated to local authorities in order to maintain services and break down the lines; this also applies to services supporting education, transport and cafeteria. In fact, we know that today it has been noted that many children make the complete meal basically at school and it is the only meal of the day. As you know, primary school is no longer able to guarantee full-time services because of the cuts made in recent years and, in this sense, we observe the will of the government to run for cover. Extra-scholastic activity is also declining, especially in the South, where 20.7 percent of children experience severe deprivation. In the Mezzogiorno, more than 37% of children do not engage in any physical activity, with negative consequences on lifestyles and well-being, as well as having no employment outside the school. Who is calculating these social and health costs? The school dispersal becomes serious in the years of secondary school. It is above all the jump from the first to the second grade secondary school to represent a highly critical passage, which generates destabilisation and disorientation. The first inconveniences, even strong ones, have been felt since the sixth grade - say the primary teachers, already in the last year of primary school - that it is an order of school at this moment left to itself with serious consequences (because that of preadolescence is a very delicate age), but it is from high school that discrimination linked to poverty hit our children the most. Good books are important but cannot stem the abandonment of studies. Let us remember where we started: cultural poverty produces poverty. A few days ago we celebrated World Day of the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence. Already from puberty, marginalization or harassment resulting from social condition, gender, ethnicity or religion, become for minor rocks often insurmountable. This is confirmed by the news of these days: the phenomenon of increasingly rampant bullying, the distorted perception of sexuality, the abuse of drugs and alcohol (for alcohol abuse we are above the EU average) and the many cases of youth crime are a reality that we must face with greater responsibility. We have a law - law 28 August 1997, n. 285 -: let us strengthen it, because on that we have built great and good practices in the territories. Let's give her more attention! More funds at school! More funds to municipalities for educational services and support to education. I still carry within me the words of the teenager who spoke at a recent event organized in Rome for the Day of Childhood and Adolescence, who said: we teenagers and young people have the right to trust institutions. This is a strong message, which I am raising today in this House. Politics must guarantee prospects for boys and girls: prospects of equality, education and rights for children to whom we will give the keys of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u54	Senator Catalfo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the state's attention to families in poverty is unfortunately lacking, and the facts show us this. Relatively poor people are 15.8 percent of the population, and 12.7 of families are poor. This means that in Italy there are 3,232,000 families in poverty. From the data of UNICEF and ISTAT, also mentioned by colleagues, our country ranks first in Europe for school dispersal and increased poverty. Between 2011 and 2012 clear signs of worsening were detected in all - I repeat: in all - territorial divisions. For households with 3 or more underage children, the incidence of poverty has risen to 27.2% in the national average and in the Mezzogiorno - this is a very, very alarming figure - to 38.8%. The relative poverty threshold for a family of two is EUR 990, about EUR 20 in less than 2011. Increases in poverty are recorded in single-parent families who have great difficulties in living and in those with aggregated members, as well as among the families of workers and self-employed. One important point to mention is that poverty has also increased among employees and managers. The employment crisis has taken away and is subtracting from many families an income that allows them to live a dignified life and, under such conditions, economic hardship often turns into social hardship. These figures show that the measures taken to date by the Government to combat poverty are insufficient and incapable of effectively combating poverty in our country. In paragraph 520, inserted in the maxi amendment substitution of the law of stability that reconfirms a measure that is the card purchases in contrast to poverty, are allocated only 40 million euros annually. Unfortunately, this figure - I am sorry to say - is ridiculous and certainly cannot be sufficient and necessary to combat poverty properly and effectively in Italy. So it is not correct and it is not fair to make Italian families believe that tomorrow in Italy there will be the minimum income because it is quite complicated and also quite disarming to have to respond to citizens who can no longer live and that they can no longer feed themselves and that yesterday, the day before yesterday they wrote me, confident that tomorrow they will enjoy the minimum income. I had to say it's not like that and it's an experiment. But you can't make people believe that. You can't. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The IRS then continues to demand from a family father the same taxes as it asks the singles or those who are without family loads. It would be necessary and appropriate to introduce a tax deduction to the extent of family loads. Only in this way will the situation of households be able to improve, and at the same time this would allow a significant share of basic consumption to be shared. Another aspect of the problem is child protection, which is intended not only against poverty, but also against the risk of school dispersal, as mentioned by colleagues earlier. Our country ranks first in Europe for school dispersal and increased poverty. In Italy, there are 1,876,000 children in relative poverty, of whom 1,227,000 are in the South. The poverty rate between children and adolescents is among the most important indicators of health and well-being in a society. Under uncertain economic conditions, investing in the protection and development of children and adolescents is not only ethically right, but also economically advantageous and, in the Italian case, this is a certainty especially with regard to the Mezzogiorno. Childcare and adolescence services, an indispensable tool at any time, serve the future of the country and we cannot deny what our children are entitled to because of the crisis. Public spending, especially for children, is not a cost, but an investment, because we invest in the family, in the future, and we create a better generation by rising from the rubble in which we are at the moment. Therefore, it is necessary to focus on the break-up of the Stability Pact of spending on childhood and adolescence and on the family, which is now our primary asset. I would stress that this commitment is also important in order to ensure that budgetary imbalances, perhaps caused by few virtuous political agencies or agencies, do not undermine the fundamental rights of children and the family. I quote from Article 27 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and Adolescence, which reads as follows: The States Parties recognise the right of every minor to a sufficient level of life to enable his/her physical, mental, spiritual, moral and social development. They shall take appropriate measures, taking into account national conditions, to help parents and other persons in custody of the minor to implement this right and shall, where appropriate, offer material assistance to the child. We have made these commitments as a state and they are in favour of our citizens. Therefore, let us not allow the economic war between states to prevent the fulfilment and fulfilment of these obligations. I am talking about economic war, because that is exactly what we are witnessing. It is a conflict on a global scale, at the strokes of bond purchases and clauses of international treaties, where states count and not people. The question is: which states do they count? Among other things, it is clear and clear, given today's situation and the nightmare scenario in which citizens find themselves, how there is a need for a unitary instrument of income support, and not for temporary and lacking measures. Italians don't need experimentation, and I don't say it in a controversial way, but mine is a prayer and an invitation to do it all together. We still cannot think that experiments will solve the problem in Italy. We cannot create citizens and cities of series A and citizens and cities of series B. The measure must be unique in support of all Italian citizens [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because Italians need solidity. Applying austerity and fiscal rigour to the less well-off and low-income groups will condemn the country to stagnate in an endless economic depression, because austerity policies condemn us in the long term. We therefore call for monitoring to be carried out to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of the interventions currently taking place that should combat poverty in Italy and child and teenage distress. We call for measures to protect the family, childhood and adolescence against poverty. We call for no more experimentation, but a single income support measure covering all the poor in Italy. We have asked this many times in this House and in the Commission. We demand citizenship income for us, a minimum income for others, but we also ask that a technical table be set up, that we talk about it in the Commissions once and for all and that we really work on this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u56	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, I did not sign any of the motions on our examination, and that is precisely why I asked to speak. For years I have been involved in the Auser, an association of elderly people also committed to spreading a culture based on intergenerational relationship, and it is known the importance that grandparents have today in our families. The National Auser, on the occasion of the International Day for the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence, has released on the net a statement that began with the following words: On 20 November we celebrated the International Day for the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence. Italy, which ratified it under Law No 176 of 1991, seems to have forgotten it. So I have not signed them, certainly not because I do not agree with them, but because on such important issues we will have to stop making motions and questions. Laws should be followed. Good intentions are not enough, we need facts, we need positive actions, we need resources. Who do you think can argue against the content of these motions? Definitely no one, I hope. But then why are the data in our country so worrying? Why is the National Fund for Childhood and Adolescence provided for by Law No 285 of 1997 reduced from 40 million to 28 million? Why does the law of stability shift these few millions so important to families to finance projects to counter violence against women, proposing an unacceptable conflict between weak people? It is profoundly unfair to call for a war between the poor or the weak by confronting the needs of young people and the elderly, the needs of children and the need for the protection of women's lives. The motions that we are discussing ask the government to refinance properly Law 285 of 1997 and ask the government to have a national strategy that can address the various facets of child poverty, starting from school dispersal. And you need to find the resources. The Senate has just fired a law of stability that finances with 50 million euros the Fund for the operation of the military instrument, and it employs three billions in 20 years in the construction of warships; but, if the refinancing of the Fund for foreigners is excluded, in the law of stability for minors are only cuts. Yet we know that economic and social policies have an important role to play in combating exclusion. We can't give the kids crumbs. There are too few resources and we need to get out of the one-off logic. The poor, malnourished, uneducated minors will be adults with the possibility of affirmation in society infinitely reduced compared to those born in a family with greater redditional opportunities. You have to run for cover. The Government in the House can still review its choices in the bill of stability and show that it has understood the dramatic situation. The conferences, seminars, exhibitions, shows and other initiatives that have been held and are held all over the world to celebrate the anniversary have been and are important in order to maintain high attention on the centrality of the rights of the little ones, a theme that however requires new commitments and new energies, especially in a period of severe crisis such as what we are experiencing. We vote in favour of these motions or a joint motion, but then no more words. Let's at least start with things that don't cost, such as spreading good practices. There are projects that can be socialized and disseminated. I am thinking of the programme of intervention for the prevention of institutionalization (P.I.P.P.I.), to the national project for the integration of Roma children, synths and walkers. You have to go beyond the private cities with the aim of extending the P.I.P.P.I. the new territorial areas that can create the organizational and technical professional conditions that allow the implementation of the same. We must make a serious monitoring of the projects implemented, we must network the families, the educational institutions, the third sector with the municipalities, the Provinces and the Regions, in the awareness that only by implementing the necessary synergies is it possible to obtain the resources. As the President-in-Office of the Council has stated that it is necessary to say yes and no with honesty, it is necessary that the Government, Parliament and therefore all of us say yes to children and children, because the protection of minors and policies for childhood and adolescence must find an appropriate place in the planning of priorities on which to invest, if we really want to give a future to the new generations. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u58	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few points. Two million children live below the poverty line, 950,000 are from zero to six years old and, as we know, 23.7% live in a state of material deprivation. The National Social Policy Fund rose from €1 billion in 2007 to €45 million in 2012. We now assume an effort and a commitment to stop this social and human disaster. The elements of analysis and positions for a real solution must be taken with conscience, with a commitment that must go beyond the bond of belonging to a party. We need to go further as senators. The commitment to society and to be able to overcome the abyss in which Italy is located (because it is in the 22nd place, according to UNICEF, of 29 European countries with regard to the critical issues of education, protection and protection of children) must be common: this abyss should be overcome and this commitment must be assumed by all of us who now find ourselves working for this too. Aid and commitment must not only result in solidarity, but also in real planning and implementation of an efficient family policy. There must be a commitment to policies aimed at protecting the mother's health, which must be taken care of and supported for the life of her child, because it is from birth that a child's life begins and it is to the protection, protection and care of both of us that we must guarantee our total and real commitment. In Italy there are about 32,000 children taken away from families, 30,000 of whom are housed in foster homes and protected communities. It is a phenomenon that has been growing for years. In Italy, more than 32,000 children have been taken from their families and are called "sequested" by the State. The survey, promoted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, carried out precisely by the National Centre for Documentation and Analysis for Children and Adolescence, has allowed to update the framework of conscience and knowledge about minors. It is necessary to shed light on these data, which must be used to have a real estimate of the conditions of families and the reality of children living this tragic experience. To overcome this today, we are called to implement and plan a feasible solution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u60	She's enlisted to speak Senator Spilabotte. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u61	Mr President, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and Adolescence adopted in New York in 1989 is mentioned in the context of all the motions presented this morning. That same Convention, in Articles 20 and 21, defines the rights of the child in the context of the adoption and the matter of custody. The theme of foster care and adoption, as it affects the complex world of childhood and adolescence, involves a large part of society. It is a delicate subject, with significant repercussions on many subjects, and implies on our part reflections of an economic and sociological nature of great importance. Last week, on the occasion of the celebration of the World Day for Childhood and Adolescence, a full-day conference was dedicated to the primary right of the child to have a family and a rich and fruitful cognitive investigation was presented, which began and ended in the last legislature, which gave us a picture with some rather alarming data on adoptions. Today, in fact, after Italy was the first country in Europe, and second only to the United States worldwide, for the number of adoptions made, we are witnessing a progressive decline in the use of this institute. In fact, the decline in 2012, compared to 2011, is 22.8 percent. It is a figure destined to rise, and that unfortunately clarifies us that this current decline is certainly also due to the total impoverishment of our society and our families. However, it is necessary, as for many areas relating to the life and quality of life of children, that economic and financial policies be defined as soon as possible to give families greater prospects, and that the sense of abandonment that seems to have overwhelmed our citizens for many of whom, too many, is becoming emerging to be able to provide for ordinary expenses such as the purchase of fresh milk or school books, or the expenses for the dental care of their children. It is clear that both on the front of welfare services for families and on the school, which has lost the possibility of fully playing its social role historically carried out in our country, there has become an urgent reflection that puts at the centre the new needs of families and the rights of children to care, school and hospitality. If we are unable to guarantee the necessary support for families willing to take the path of foster care or adoption, we will not be able to expect a reversal of the trend and we will not be able to guarantee children a primary right. And this for a country like ours corresponds to a cultural defeat of enormous gravity and betrays not only the spirit and letter of our legislation, but all international legislation on the rights of childhood and adolescence. There are also problems related to the regulatory system that should be overcome in order to facilitate and facilitate adoption, in particular the international one. One of the main deterrents to the decision to adopt is precisely the complexity of the procedures and the uncertainty of the time required to complete the journey. As I come to the conclusion, it is urgent for policy to commit itself to the spread of a new culture of the rights of children and to make consistent choices. We move from words to action as soon as possible if we want to protect children and young people, who really represent our future; we invest in their schooling and education, we invest for the correct integration between children of different origins in the culture that children can use, in places of aggregation and for the exchange of our teenagers. The crisis cannot be paid for by minors: this is not only not ethical, but would mean condemning the country to an uncertain and certainly poorer future. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u62	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, childhood is the moment when the world is a dream and life, with the eyes of a child, is immortal. During childhood the world is a place where the real and the imaginary alternate and are difficult to distinguish: on the one hand you still believe the imaginary friend and on the other you fantasize about the remote future. Childhood is a world where evil is unacceptable. However, there are children who must grow quickly, because immediately the world manifests itself in the rawness and reality of evil, from the early years, from birth: evil that manifests itself in poverty, violence and exploitation; evil that manifests itself in the atrocities of war and in the lack of school education; evil that manifests itself in the violent failure of a family, violence and abuse of companions; evil that manifests itself also in the unjust and horrible death for a child. Death is the same for all, but not life and much less that which is broken monstrously at the beginning. But when we see that these misfortunes happen to children, then we hold our hearts and wonder why. Children who have been deprived of something must be helped, but children hardly ever exist as lonely entities. They are born and live strongly linked to a context, an environment, a civil or uncivil society that shapes them as future citizens or as future martyrs and slaves. Children are born into a family that can turn from a warm nest into a ferocious prison of torture. The child creates secure alliances in the parental role and growing up in the family, even with difficult challenges, creates his own future. Parents in this path have a fundamental role: educators, companions, silent accomplices of this growth. And here's the good news: children are born or always arrive in a family called State, which must have the ability to discern when to become a guardian, when to be a referee and when even to be a judge, even coming to the tear with those parents who also need implicit protection, even if not recognized. Here, the state must professionally discern the differences of the various families in difficulty and always conceive them as unique. And precisely this uniqueness and singularity of the family demonstrates its extraordinary power. One cannot tear a child from a family just because it is poor and one must not leave it where violence reigns and abuse of any kind, even if the family is well-off. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] But the State guardian must be capable and must have the resources to do so. The supreme guardian, that is, the State, must guarantee to childhood and adolescence, to children and young people, a plan of life that will one day sap for itself. The supreme guardian must work with his structures and resources to put children at the centre, to combat child poverty, to break down walls and discrimination, to preserve children in emergencies and to establish policies of education and culture. But what state? What hypocritically raises contributions from excise duties and taxes on products that our teenagers should stay away from? That the state and the families are weak shows this by increasing the problems of young people, increasing bulimia and anorexia, depression and panic crises. Not to mention the addiction to alcohol drugs and gambling. No, this is not the case, we need structural plans and active observers, we need clear and long-term actions and measures. We need a vision of the whole and a vision of a state. We cannot intervene by taking away school years. At a time when there is no work, what logic is behind the 4 years of higher education courses? If we can't give young people a job, at least let them go to school and study! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let's finish with the saving logic that they don't take anywhere.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u64	I invite you to conclude, Senator Bignami.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u65	BIGNAMI (M5S). I'm finishing, Madam President. We take initiatives that give priority to noble objectives, not savings. Let us remember that if we, who represent the State, want our citizens to give guarantees of sustainability with the payment of taxes, we must first guarantee them what they need. One cannot expect a child to be grateful and to pay taxes to a State when it is in real need, if it has always been absent. Does the state want to be recognized? Then the State takes care of and protects childhood and adolescence, and our little ones, one day, will be grateful. Here is our task: to ensure that "State" is not only the past participle of the verb being. Let's not call it a state in the past, let's not call it a state in the future, with great promises, but let's call it a state in the sense of the present, of the present, of the hour and of the immediate, because now there is need. The responsibility is also ours. I do not have time to read a beautiful poem, which I wish to leave to the record, for those interested. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussolini and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u66	We'll read it, Senator Bignami. The Presidency authorizes you to attach it to the shorthand report of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u67	We greet the students of the Liceo Scientifico (Liceo Scientifico) Vincenzo Pallotti in Rome, who are today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u68	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u69	Mr President, Madam Vice-Minister, this morning the debate was interesting, strong, and I think it is also very much in agreement with many statements, and therefore my speech will be quick. I would like to take you, if you would like, on a small trip to South Italy, which we often mention in this House, often speaking of the two speeds of the country. Never before, however, does the South really develop in a different way and need an accompaniment, which can no longer be derogable. Well, as research and studies say, child poverty and deprivation are increasing in our country. All this can be observed especially in our Mezzogiorno, where poverty has really increased and above all it concerns those families, always the same, who have difficulties and leave disadvantaged. I am thinking of single-parent families, single-income families, those in which education is unfortunately not at the highest level, those in which mothers and women do not work, those in which the Lisbon Treaty has not yet been implemented. It is in these families that we observe and suffer the consequence of this poverty, which concerns tangible and intangible goods. I don't want to be land, but parents also choose what to feed their children, selecting, no longer guaranteeing a balanced diet, no longer being able to afford a cost that ensures the necessary protein intake. We have to look at this. You're risking your health. Fortunately in our country - of this we can be proud - to date still has a widespread network throughout the territory represented by the team of Italian pediatricians, who are sentries spread throughout the territory and well follow the development of our children and our teenagers. I'm going back to intangibles. It's not the same thing to be born, I'm not saying to Filicudi or Alicudi, but not even to Capo Passero rather than Bolzano. A child born in Bolzano, luckily for him, has a simpler and richer life perspective in many ways than a child born in the deep South. Look, this is not a whining, it is not a lamentation, it is just a photograph to be able to give answers from this House, because it is from here that we must point out to the Government, splendidly represented this morning by our Deputy Minister, some indications to remedy the situation. We can no longer tolerate the country being divided in such a dramatic way. You need help with parenting. Young couples need to be supported. That trait of union between generations has failed, with one accompanying the other. Unfortunately, today those who accompany the new generations are often television, and excuse me if I say so, but this also applies to ours, not so rich in cultural instruments, but rather of negative models, so then we suffer and we are scandalized when we see that in our city our girls, young women, prostitute themselves, because it is more important to have the dress branded, with all respect for the brands, than to go to school and study Plato or to learn how to solve a problem of mathematics. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] It's us. It's our responsibility as adults, obviously incapable. We have not been able to give serious and valid cultural models. We must start again from there, because the material good is necessary, but also the immaterial one that is just as important. There is no way that there are children who do not know a vacation. There are children who have never enjoyed a vacation in their lives, because they can't take an airplane, because it costs too much money, because they can't take a train, because in some parts of the South there are no trains. More than Frecciarossa and Italo! [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] We have littorines, gentlemen. This is our country at two speeds. I repeat, this is neither a whining nor a lamentation. It is a strong invitation, as I said, to put the needs and rights of our children and our teenagers at the heart of our policy. It seems to me that, as far as possible, some signals, perhaps timid, have arrived. We must encourage him - I think it is also beautiful what happened this morning in Parliament, where, regardless of his belongings, we have all said the same thing - so that we can finally give...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u70	I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u71	PADUA (PD). I'm finishing, Mr. President. In order to finally give fulfilment, implementation and concreteness to Article 3 of the Constitution, where it says that it is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of each of us in the life of the country. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Bianconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u72	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u73	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank all the Senator colleagues who have spoken. All the motions presented are acceptable and subscribeable and, wanting to make an extreme synthesis, we can say that in all we want to put at the center the right of the child and, allow me, in all we also affirm the right of the child to their family. On the right of the child to his family I would like to make a little clarification. Since we will also talk shortly about shared foster care, we must talk about family, but also about what has been a family, that is, with regard to children who have parents in a situation of non-cohabitation, separation or even divorce what happens in this situation? We have a strong discrepancy between judgments and what the courts say about how they are to be entrusted and how children should live and the scientific documentation we have today. In the event of separation, the courts continue to identify a foster parent, and the second parent, who tends to be less involved, at least in our country has a very limited time to spend with his children. 11:46 a.m. (Follow DIVINE). There is a series of studies on the subject, including a search of entities and volumes never seen, which involved more than 184,000 minors in 36 countries, including Italy, and reached extremely scientific conclusions: the children of parents in a state of separation who can live the same time with both parents have enormous - I repeat: huge - benefits, in terms of general health, psychophysical health, school performance and risk reduction for drugs, alcohol or other deviations. All the research carried out involves that we legislators should invite the courts to change completely line or attitude, because, in good or bad faith, the courts tend to rule that the "ping-pong" of children who have to spend time with one and the other parent is even harmful to the well-being and health of children. This is absolutely wrong! It's scientifically proven, in fact. Therefore, announcing - as Senator Stefani will later do - the position of the League extremely favorable and interested in this and the other documents presented, which may have to be gathered in a single text to be submitted to a single resolution, I invite colleagues to take a look at the bill n. 1163, already deposited, in the matter of shared trust that is left to the Assembly and open to subscriptions. This text, in fact, collects on time the indications contained in the documents that we are going to vote on and on which we are going to decide. The hope of continuing to keep the child's interest at the centre above all and at all - the child's right to live in a family, even if it may be unconventional (in this separate case), must agree with us all, in my opinion. It is not, therefore, a matter of partisan interest or ideological interest, but the greater the subscription and sharing of that text, the greater the attention we can devote to our children in the future. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, by making a small forecast, if we proceed in this way, we will conclude our work around 2 p.m. Therefore, in order to avoid the need to harmonise the timing, I call for a spontaneous self-quota. Senator Bianconi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u75	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the New Centre Group in explanation of vote will be lapidary, so I will use the ten minutes available for that stage to make my speech, which is therefore also an explanation of vote, on behalf of my Group, which is absolutely in favour. We are very happy that colleagues have given us the opportunity to discuss such an important issue today in this House, also in the light of the fact that on 20 November the International Day for the Rights of Children and Adolescence was celebrated. Here, through the motions presented, we are talking about children denied in Italy, in Europe and in the world. I believe that in this respect the Italian Presidency of the European Union will have to place as an important dossier to the attention of the Member States the absolute need to recover a vision of the whole, a perspective. In fact, we are talking about those who will be the future Italian, European and world citizens. As we have said on all occasions, it is a denied childhood. It is obvious that, if we compare the situation of Italian children with that of children in other parts of the world, the confrontation screams. In fact, in the world there are children to whom organs explant, children exploited for prostitution, children soldier, children who have no food or medicines, children exploited at an early age in mines or forced labor. The world situation, however, cannot limit or prevent us from looking within a developed and industrialized country like Italy. Therefore, I want to start some reflections. In fact, I believe that the motions presented are meant to question us about the particular situations in order to deal with them together thoroughly with important acts. If the motion remains an end in itself, it is for that reason that it leads us to say that a motion or an agenda is never denied to anyone; however, if the commitments contained in the motion are real and are signed in this House with a gentlemen's agreement, then these must also be honoured. I would therefore like to make a few brief comments in this very important area of our great development. First of all, I would like to say something about family cohesion. We have 800,000 conflicts of fathers and mothers over the offspring. I remember, however, that the right to have a family, a father and a loving mother who educate and care for their children, is one of the basic principles of common human coexistence. Therefore, 800,000 children in Italy live in situations of conflictual problems that lead to difficulties in recognizing the reason on which side. They are tossed, overwhelmed by situations for them immense to which they create serious psychological problems and to which they are unable to cope. The second reflection concerns social services. Colleagues, I believe that with great tranquility, but also with firmness we should make a reasoning about social services. Meanwhile because they have fragmented skills, secondly because social services are distributed in our territory as a leopard spot, so in some realities they are very competent, very active and present, in others absolutely absent. It is also necessary to verify how the funds, which can be used to meet these needs, are spent, and therefore to carry out a substantial verification because in some cases, often and willingly, these resources are dispersed in other resources. Then I want to open a third reflection on the courts of minors. I like to think that in our world of law - we are the cradle of law - we can and should start talking about family court. It is not conceivable, in fact, that a court does not have an accomplished specificity when it is called upon to settle such delicate situations. About 15 days ago the weekly "Panorama" published a specific dossier on economic hardship and children taken away from their families from the courts. This too is one of those terrible conflicts that affect loving parents - so not in conflict with each other: loving parents - to whom children are taken away because they are destitute. This is a scandal that we absolutely must remedy. This is indeed a further abuse, which is added to poverty, towards the founding core of love and care, that is, the family nucleus. I would also like to focus on the phenomenon, which, while being more complex, is fortunately a minority, since it concerns small numbers, even if important, of women mothers in prison and of what it means to be born in a cell and after a few years to be torn and separated from their mother. Italy will also have to question this: the cradle of law will have to be questioned! Finally, children and poverty. Colleagues, we can't hide behind a finger. Our situation is what it is, and even if we do everything we can to catch up economically on the train of development, we risk losing whole areas on the street, whole families with their children on the street. A priest from Bologna told me that at some point he realized that the candles were disappearing in the church. There he thought of a goliard theft. Then he realized that the authors were parents who had suffered the detachment of electricity and who wanted to allow their children to study and live by candlelight. We are talking about Bologna, one of the richest cities in Italy! Not to mention the fact that, as a result, these children are also denied the right to health and treatment. In our heart and in our political action, all this is absolutely squealing, because these are incredible situations for us. It is certainly squealing - I said before - to tell these stories to children who are child soldiers, but these are the realities that we live. We therefore certainly agree with the motions we are debating today, to which we will support them, but we believe that a real and concrete commitment is also important in the measures that we will have to take and that must really put the child, his well-being, his culture and the dignity of living a carefree life, because children must also be able to live a carefree life and create their own future. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u77	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the senators who have presented the motions before us on the protection of children's rights. I certainly find the proposal to unify in a text shared all the motions, so that I can express a stronger commitment on the part of the Senate on these issues, which certainly have our full support. In particular, if the Government has issued a decree for school and culture, it is also right that it should be able to make a commitment in this House to adopt a pro-child decree, even if we have to deal with resources and funding, which are always few and not always significant. I would like to offer this House an analysis of the matter with a singular cut, starting from a concept: it is from the reading books of the elementary schools that we should start again, senators and senators. It can be a slogan, but precisely from the concept of harmony that was represented and cultivated there, with those wonderful illustrations that were the result of the commitment of unknown artists, one can think of rebuilding that model of family, that beehive of serenity and that reassuring fireplace that had a fundamental part in the process that involved the whole Country, from the North, to the Centre to the South, when Italy, poor and destroyed by the war conflict, in the 1950s began to set on the march, to grow and to achieve development goals. This has also been possible thanks to the family policies of the governments of the time, that is through the attention, simultaneously secular and religious, towards the small citizens, forming them and making them grow to make them protagonists of Italy that has been delivered to us as the beautiful Country and that now all, men and women, we have the duty to safeguard, with the commitment of each one. We therefore increase our commitment to children; we facilitate interventions and resources towards education, training, rehabilitation facilities, leisure and sport and cultural containers. We use information technology; we allow more investment in municipalities. We facilitate intergenerational dialogue: adults and young people are put in a position to trust each other. Let's make sure everyone's a permanent educator. Education must be given in the family through a system of harmonious collaboration with institutions, volunteering and school. Well, the state can and must restore that concept of harmony that has been handed down to us from the reading books of our elementary school [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u78	Sorry to interrupt, Senator Liuzzi, but unfortunately the time at your disposal is over. Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u79	Mr President, the motions put forward by my fellow Members concerning the serious situation in which children live have given me the opportunity to identify three aspects which I believe are crucial to tackling this problem. As a member of the Childhood Commission, I do not intend to be obsessive, especially after this budgetary session. I leave the great arguments to those who have made their political slogan on this subject. And yes, because that is all I hear after the approval of the financial maneuver. I would just like to highlight three points of reflection. The first concerns the data attesting to the juvenile emergency. The second relates, on the other hand, to the actual amendments made by us in the 5 Star Movement, in favour of the Children's and Adolescence Fund, which were, however, ignored during the discussion of the law of stability. The third, on the other hand, affixes to the figure of the Guarantor for childhood and adolescence. It is well known to all - now - the content of the dossier of "Save the Children" and of the UNICEF report, which is fully reported in the motions in question, which does not raise spirits, but - indeed - discourages them. In Italy, 25% of children are at risk of poverty. Now excuse the frankness: the commitments of these motions are all worthy of consideration, but frankly, after witnessing in vain the work on the law of stability, I doubt that they will be realized. I wonder how a serious, concrete and effective plan can be drawn up to combat child and adolescent poverty and school dispersal, as resources are very limited. How can this government adopt growth policies as a matter of urgency to overcome the economic crisis that has impoverished families in particular, with a national strategy, an action plan and adequate resources that provide for a plurality of measures? Above all, will it be able to properly refinance Law No 285 of 28 August 1997, which provides for the promotion of rights and opportunities for children and adolescents, or to find the resources needed to implement a strategic plan to combat child poverty? I remind everyone that we have the figure of the Guarantor for Childhood and Adolescence, which can have an impact in the operation of the commitments that this Government will assume today. I would like to make one final point. It is also up to the Guarantor to protect the children disputed in the separations. I remember that these are smaller than the others, rather they must be protected more because they are often victims of relational poverty resulting from the immaturity of adults. For this reason, I take the opportunity to invite the Guarantor to urge this Government to fulfil the commitments that it will assume today through the motions under consideration and to ensure that these do not remain only words. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u80	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over the full text of my report so that it can be annexed to the report, but I would like to stress one point that I think is very important. From the sad scenario that emerges from this debate there is a figure that I would like to stress. According to some estimates, over the last three years, health poverty in our country has increased by 97%, not only in families (this means that the number of citizens who have difficulty buying medicines, even those with a prescription), but also in reception facilities, due to lack of funds. Although these facilities do take large amounts for reception, they do not provide health care for children, dental care and haematological examinations and they do not follow any preventive policies at all. Therefore, we would like to know how many structures in Italy, how many family homes, how many children receive and whether they have a budget of the money they receive. We would also like to know how this money is being used, because surely the fund available has been significantly reduced in recent years, but I do not know if there is sufficient and adequate control over how this money is being spent, and it would also be necessary to control conventions with local authorities and security standards. Faced with this scenario, I believe it is unanimous that we need to act promptly with concrete measures to support the most fragile part of our society. We must also review the structures of family counselors - another problem - as they have diminished over the years and emptied of their initial meaning and professionalism, especially at a time of emergency when health care policy could be carried out with great benefit by the consultants still in existence. Therefore, we ask the Government for a concrete commitment to face a real childhood emergency and a social distress that threatens to compromise the well-being and competitiveness of our young people. It is time for a real family policy, serious, concrete, not in words, but in deeds. Above all, we want maximum transparency for children, and the text that will be voted on today I hope is only the beginning of serious parliamentary work on this issue, which we will carry out with great determination. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u82	I would also like to thank you for your ability to sum up. The Presidency authorizes you to attach the full text of your speech to the shorthand report. Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u83	Mr President, activate my stopwatch to try to be very brief. Colleagues, I want to talk to you about the last ones. You will say: are the last ones among the children? Yes, I would like to talk to you about the last ones, who are the last ones compared to exploited children, working children, children who have no education, children who are in poverty. More recent of all these children are those who are in prison, children from scratch to three years who spend their childhood in prison with their mothers. In a very short time the law n. 62 of 2011 will enter into force that increases - obviously at the request of the mother - the age up to six years. We are absolutely not ready - I say this as a member of the Justice Commission - to deal with this huge humanitarian emergency. I am happy to be able to say this in the presence of Deputy Minister Guerra, to whom I recognize a passion and an enormous activity carried out throughout the social field, but on this we need a concert. Please be a bearer of these words with my colleague, Minister of Justice. Now that you have entered the Chamber as President of the Justice Commission, Senator Palma, I am happy to say that the Democratic Party Group, in agreement with colleagues from the other groups, will be asking you to act immediately on the question of whether we are prepared to face, and how, this new emergency due to the raising of the age of children living in prison. A child living in prison lives in a place incompatible with his needs, with the needs of socialization and psychophysical development. Children in prison suffer from disorders related to overcrowding, lack of space. They are children with problems of growth, of development of the emotional sphere and also cognitive. They are children with continuous difficulties, children crying for anything, restless, with difficulty of sleep. They are often unappetizing and apathetic. They are children who do not know a garden, a collective game. These children are more recent than all the others, also because they are almost all children of foreign inmates. Most of them - there are about 60 at this time in Italian prisons - are children of women from Eastern Europe (almost all Romanian) and African (a large number are Nigerians). They are children who are in prison because their mothers do not have a family network that can welcome them as could happen in the case of Italian children. Then I think we only have one instrument. I would point out, however, Mr Guerra, that the amendment providing for its funding was rejected. I am referring to the instrument provided for in Law No 62 of 2011, which determines the typological characteristics of the protected family houses in which to welcome these mothers with these children. ICAMs aren't enough. There are only two in Italy, one in Milan and one in Venice. They are not enough because they do not have enough seats and because they do not allow the necessary socialization for children. The amendment has been rejected, and for that reason, Mr Palma, I am sure you will want to help me in this. We will hear Minister Cancellieri, who has spoken so much about prison in recent times and has so much said that he wants to be interested in the problems of prison. Here is a good evidence to take care of those who really are neither rich nor powerful, but who need help and are in prison as innocent: these children. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u84	The debate is closed. I would like to inform you that an agenda has been submitted, the text of which is being distributed, signed by the signatories to motions Nos. 45, 65 (text 2), 164 (text 2) and 181 which were subsequently withdrawn. I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask her to give her an opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u85	Mr President, before I give an opinion on the agenda and explain it, I should like briefly to take up some of the issues that have been discussed during the debate this morning. Given the importance of the debate and the initiative taken, I believe it is crucial that we have arrived at the presentation of a shared agenda. It is true that many of the commitments on the agenda are long-standing, in the sense that they may not have followed within a few days, but it is very important that the most sensitive points in the area of child intervention have been jointly identified. The picture has obviously - and I say of course because we heard it this morning - been of great concern. I would like to make a few comments and also give some information. It seems to me, in fact, also necessary to do so in testimony of a commitment made by the Government, which I do not consider to be decisive yet, but which certainly can and is contributing to the solution of the problems under consideration. First of all, I would like to focus on poverty. I agree with all the senators who have spoken that child poverty is the crucial aspect on which we must focus. However, I would like not to underestimate the commitment that the Government, last but not least with Parliament's heartfelt support, is making on this front. I am referring in particular to the so-called experimental plan - and I will explain the experimental term in a better way - to combat poverty, which will count in all the funding put in place for 2014 not out of 40 million, but out of 507 million euros which, for the various decisions taken over time, will be devoted to poverty, with particular reference to families with children where adults have lost their jobs. It is therefore a very precise target which, in the context of poverty policies that should certainly be more financed, is a first step that I would urge you not to underestimate. With these resources - this is the meaning of the declarations made in the last days, for which everyone assumes responsibility - we will arrive, during 2014, to have for the first time an intervention throughout the national territory, which will target families with children in absolute poverty. It is a first step towards the construction of universal measures that we all aspire to, which I urge you not to underestimate. The other aspect that I would ask you to consider important is that this measure is not merely a monetary transfer, in the sense that it is associated with a takeover of the poor nuclei which, in a relationship of mutual responsibility, provides for the accompaniment and assistance of the families in charge - in which, I repeat, there are smaller ones - who, for example, undertake to respect the compulsory schooling and the stages that our system envisages for pediatric visits. Therefore, it is beginning to take effective action on the issues you have highlighted: poverty for children is often associated with school dispersal and a reduction in health protection. Of course, the other accompanying elements relate to training and job opportunities in connection with employment centres. Why are these measures experimental? Because the administrative capacity of the municipal authorities that will take charge of this project, and that will have to act in synergy with ASL, schools and employment centers is not improvised. So, the project is experimental in the sense that it will be monitored step by step. It is also experimental because the funding is there for 2014, and to bring it to an end in the remaining months that will be necessary for 2015, but there is still no permanent structure, because the funding has not yet been found. So, it would be misleading and not honest not to call it experimental. But it is not an experimental measure because it is occasional; Indeed, it is a measure that is being strongly structured and, I repeat, it will be throughout the national territory by 2014. Please note that. The second consideration I want to make concerns the issue of foster care. It is true that there are very large problems, and I do not underestimate them in any way, but I would also like us all to be aware that in Italy the incidence of children out of the family, on the total number of children, is significantly lower than that of other countries, as evidenced by the data of Eurochild and, in particular, of the countries with which we generally compare ourselves as France, Germany and England. So, it's not about an unfinished job. In particular, of the 32,000 children out of the family, about half are in family custody, and this is another important aspect to have in mind. You are asking for monitoring, and I would like to remind you that we are monitoring, which therefore already exists. I would invite you to look at the publication last updated with the data at 31 December 2011, which is present on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and that gives you all the data you are asking me: how many are the children, how many are in foster care, how many in foster homes, what are the reasons for custody. Without therefore removing anything from the problem and the garrison that must be done, please note that actions are in progress, just as guidelines have been prepared for the foster care, which have been approved at a unified conference and which are now being tested and monitored step by step in some areas of Italy (we will give you account at all locations, at any time you want, of the results of this monitoring). The intervention programme for the prevention of institutionalisation (P.I.P.P.I.) was also mentioned as a good practice.), which prevents children from moving away from mistreating families. This project, which is now extended and repeated, is implemented with the private cities indicated by Law No 285 of 1997, but was born because it was supported, wanted and financed also by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. We are therefore not absent on this front: the issue of foster care and the prevention of foster care is a subject on which we are very busy. As for unaccompanied foreign minors, there is certainly a significant problem of non-financing for 2014 of the Fund for unaccompanied foreign minors. And there is all my personal commitment, but also that of the Government, to identify resources in the transition to the House of the Law of Stability. However, I would also like to say that this is not just a question of resources. We are working synergically between Ministries to systematize the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors. It is a fundamental step, that we have taken and that although still in experimentation (I still use this term because we do not improvise such actions overnight, but we have to verify them) and in the first phase of implementation, it is already defined in all its essential lines, already shared with all the administrations concerned and already operating in different areas of Italy. It is an information system that will tell us, at any time, where the minor is, who is, where he is welcomed and, if he moves from one community to another, he will track him down. This is fundamental because, as was mentioned in some of the speeches that preceded me, there are minors that we record and that then disappear, and maybe reappear somewhere else. Moreover, we need this system not only to have in the future a better chance of distributing foreign minors on the territory (and this is a very important problem), but also to evaluate how many children (who are often boys, because many unaccompanied foreign minors are teenagers) we lose. We know that especially the youngest, when they disappear, or enter chains that take them to other countries where they want to go or end up in networks of child begging and prostitution and drug dealing. So, a lot of things could be said about school dispersal, since the Ministry of Education is working very hard on this issue. But I'm gonna stop here so I don't get too long. On the other hand, I would like to express my opinion on the unitary agenda that has been presented: it is a strongly positive opinion, but also of support and support, because the stimulus that comes from Parliament is particularly dear to me. However, I must point out to you a few minor changes that my role requires me to request. Since many of the commitments referred to here also include financial commitments, I would ask you to add, at the very beginning of the agenda, so that we do not then have to repeat point by point, after the words: "engaged the Government" the words "in compliance with the constraints of public finance". This kind of premise - as you know - allows the government to act peacefully and, on the other hand, intervenes in compliance with a constitutional rule. Another small intervention concerns point 3 where a coordinated approach is called for in policies and competences between different bodies in favour of childhood and adolescence. Since - as you well know - the competences are divided between levels of government (I do not care so much about those of the central administrations) on the basis of a constitutional dictation, I would just ask you to add, in paragraph 3, second line, after the words "in order to overcome" the engraving: "in respect of the constitutionally defined competences". I strongly believe in the need for coordination and, therefore, this change does not detract from the inspiration of this point. With regard to point 15, another small clarification is necessary here too: you have rightly written: "to carry out, in compliance with the competences governed by law". But at the end of the period there is a semicolon that does not allow to be sure that the expression "in compliance with the competences governed by the law" also refers to the second period, after the semicolon. So I would replace the semicolon with the conjunction with the conjunction with the semicolon: only for more punctuality. The last request concerns point 18. The theme of the family court has long been in the attention of both Parliament and the Government. I cannot sign this commitment in a clear way, because it is still the subject of analysis and considerations on all the implications, including by the Ministry of Justice. I would therefore ask you to change the beginning of point 18, by entering the formula: "Estimating the possibility of "-." This means a serious commitment to take the proposal into account and assess its implications, including on the territory and on the reorganisation of justice; but do not ask me for pleasure in making a clearer commitment, because I would not be able to do so at the moment. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u86	I thank Deputy Minister Guerra. I understand from their remarks that all the signatories to the agenda accept the amendments you have proposed. I hope, in view of the convergence that has taken place on the system, that the subsequent time will be used in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u89	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we in the Mixed Left Group will naturally vote in favour of this new unitary agenda, which makes a detailed list of the urgent commitments that the Government should make, as the text says, but that the Deputy Minister has now told us that they have already been partially taken. I believe that we will all agree to vote with broad support on this agenda. However, we have some difficulty in understanding the meaning of this debate, which - as has been mentioned - is linked to the celebration of the International Day for the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence on 20 November. We have some concerns, since we have been approving motions in this House for months with specific commitments addressed to the Government (let us think of the debate we have had on the hydrogeological failure) and then these are systematically disregarded in the following acts. This debate is therefore also somewhat paradoxical, precisely because it takes place two days after the adoption of the law of stability, in which still, despite the words of the Deputy Minister that we have listened carefully, some important points have not been included. We do not believe that the signatories of the motions and of the unitary agenda wanted to do a mere exercise of style or celebratory rhetoric, but of course we must ask ourselves some questions. It is true that these are the years of the economic crisis, faced with austerity, and that poverty has increased, but if the law of stability just passed contributes to worsening the living conditions of families, it is clear that children, the weakest, are the ones who pay for it. Therefore, if politics bends to the unique thought of neoliberalism, children are struck first of all. It is true that in Italy we are witnessing a real emergency on childhood and all the data you have presented confirm it, but today we have to face a different poverty, the sudden one, because all too often it happens that both parents lose their jobs a few months later; therefore they were and are urgent concrete measures, this is clear to all. Yet the bill of stability, approved with a vote of confidence a few days ago, cut the National Fund for Childhood and Adolescence, Mrs. Deputy Minister. Among other things, in some previous motions it is erroneously said that the fund has remained at EUR 45 million; unless we were wrong to read the maxi amendment, it has been reduced to EUR 28 million. We do not underestimate his words, Deputy Minister, when he talks about a 500 million fund for anti-poverty measures, but we must be honest: we are talking about two different things, because the national fund (which, among other things, finances the project of the 15 cities), as has been mentioned in this debate, has been cut a lot in recent years and at first it was thought that it could be compensated by the National Social Policy Fund, but also that in recent years has been cancelled. I would like to remind you that the National Fund for Children and Adolescence finances initiatives such as aggregation centres for street children, experimental educational services for children from 0 to 6 years of age and work-life-time reconciliation activities, summer activities for children and children, the protection and promotion of the rights of children, so it is a very different thing. They are well established activities and services in cities; important resources for families and children and many of them could close. Among other things, the bill of stability takes these few million, so important for families, as Senator Granaiola recalled in her speech, to finance projects to combat violence against women: a real paradox or perhaps an endidia of funds. We may have had difficulty reading the maxi amendment that has been presented to us in such a fast time, but perhaps it is an endiad of funds because the resources for violence are certainly also those for family homes for women with children. Paying attention to childhood means caring for and growing school, the largest social place; so how can you refuse all the investment proposals that have been discussed and put forward in this House during the school decree and the bill of stability? The majority speeches on school and research in both cases have been very hard, they have denounced the lack of investment and resources and we also add political investment. The government would have to remedy the ruin that was made of the school, not only trying to patch up the bigger holes, but trying to restore the many good experiences that in recent years have made the Italian public school a reference point in Europe. It is not always necessary to invent the new: I think of the need and urgency to restore full time, which has a great educational, pedagogical value and is an aid against school dispersal, whose rates are still very high today throughout the country and is a phenomenon that does not only concern foreign children or the South of Italy. In the same way, resources are needed for the integration of foreign children, which means support to teach the Italian language; helping children means financing the state public school also by distributing resources to municipalities and regions to open nursery schools and public childhood schools. In order to help children, a plan for public housing is needed, because too many children live with their families in no places, from basements, bridges, fields: I think of the shameful situation of Roma and Sinti, on which Italian policies are half a century behind Europe and in this regard too we did not seem to have read much in the maxi amendment. Helping children means an extraordinary plan for work, to provide all citizens, including parents, with a job that means future and certainty. Nor has this been a priority of the majority, yet it would be the easiest way to help poor families with children whose children - as has been said today - are often taken away. Helping children would have meant finding money for public health, for counselors, for territorial garrisons, to eliminate tickets, which constitute a serious sign of inequality. In Italy, more than 112,000 children are victims of health poverty, have no access to medicines and care and less than ever to health prevention: one example of all is the very expensive dental care. Therefore, resources are needed to ensure the effective coverage of the expenses incurred by the municipalities for the reception of all minors present, without any distinction of origin, age, period or place of entry into the Italian territory. In order to protect minors, procedures for foster care must be simplified, without reducing controls, knowing that children are not packages that move from one family to another, but care must be taken for their growth, training and soul. What, moreover, about the adoptions that no one is talking about anymore, after a famous electoral campaign by Forza Italia that announced simpler adoptions? A real commercial, then nothing. In addition, several political forces have tabled an amendment to the Act of Stability on Adoptions, but in this case too it has been rejected. It must also be borne in mind that there is still today in Italy the shame of children detained with their mothers and that the first important alternative detention experiments for women with children are totally insufficient. In conclusion, Mr President, the good wishes contained in these motions and in the subsequent agenda will clearly agree, but the concreteness of the statements we make today would like to find it again when we throw the economic and political sums. We would like to read, in addition to all these commitments, the allocation of the millions of euros needed to reflect today's fine words. If then at the end of this simple addition, this figure will be lower than that which we have invested, for example, for military expenditure or for large unnecessary works, it will mean that the accounts do not return. This is a simple operation: the children will understand it as well, those we are dealing with today. It is a pity that an important date such as that of the Stability Act has already been lost and there is no longer any alibi for all those who, intervening in this House, denounce shortcomings and lack of resources, but then, with their vote, help to approve the cuts. It is therefore very high the risk that these days will turn into a humiliation for Parliament. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u90	We greet the students of the Institute of Higher Education J. M. Keynes of Castel Maggiore, in the province of Bologna, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u92	You have the floor, and I hope that my appeal will be accepted by someone.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u93	STEFANI (LN-Aut). I will obey, Mr. President. Mr President, Madam Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the denied rights of children, it is mistakenly thought that the problem concerns only distant countries, where children are forced to fight wars or to work in intolerable conditions, or where they are subjected to sexual abuse or punitive violence. Unfortunately, the problem of childhood is not just that part of the world that lives in situations of severe underdevelopment. Even in those countries that have achieved high levels of industrialization and well-being, children unfortunately suffer physical and psychological damage and violence, exploitation and abuse often have irreparable effects. Even 20 years after the entry into force of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, 250 million children worldwide are still forced to work. Among these, about 50 percent even work full - time - we are talking about children between the ages of five and fourteen. All too often, more or less unknowingly, we ourselves feed this child exploitation, buying shoes, balloons or clothing, even of famous brands, which in the name of globalisation are products where work costs little or very little and there are no civil and social rights to be respected. All this must also be countered from the legislative point of view, but it would also be important to start from a clear and decisive position, which we should all have the moral and ethical duty to face, boycotting these products. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The affirmation of the rights of children and adolescence is imperative and despite the many measures taken in the name of the best interests of children and adolescents, animated by the most convinced intentions to give life to a real system of protection and promotion of their rights, we are still far from being able to claim that we have created the conditions for a healthy childhood. Children, let us all remember, have the right to be protected, to be treated as the primary good of our society. For this reason it is essential to start from a rediscovery of traditional family values, but it is equally important to strongly oppose the single secularist thought that is spreading, which also finds support in legislative initiatives in our opinion absurd, such as those aimed at removing from official documents references to mother and father to replace them with aseptic surrogates. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The family and school are the first areas in which children can learn the values that have always belonged to the cultural, social and religious tradition of our country. The discussion of these motions, now united in a single act of direction, should be an opportunity to improve and enhance the role played by the world of volunteering, in perfect synergy with the evolution that in recent years has been reformed the organization of the State. A further consideration is needed. This discussion should provide an opportunity to reflect on how to limit the conditions under which the phenomenon of child exploitation takes place more easily. This is why initiatives should be put in place to assess the problems related to immigration, especially illegal immigration: children, uprooted from their natural environment, in conditions of poverty, become easily prey to situations of violation of fundamental rights, from the exploitation of child labour to begging, from sexual exploitation to use for micro-criminal purposes. The landscape of the world of childhood is therefore complex. I agree with the criticisms made by my previous colleague, who said that it is pointless to keep talking about petitions and principles at all times. It is indeed time to put in place a structural reform of our values, as well as serious and effective legislative initiatives. Let us act, then! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u94	I communicate that parliamentary commitments require the presence of the Deputy Minister in the Chamber of Deputies at 13.10. I therefore hope that everyone will be consistent with these times.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u97	GIANNI (SPI). Mr President, I welcome the reasoned call for a summary. Ladies and gentlemen, there are issues which immediately tend to disappear from general attention as soon as the propaganda spotlight of the election campaign goes out. What we are dealing with today, the issue of the protection of children's rights, seems to me to be quite right to be ascribed to this category. On the contrary, I would add that if the theme of childhood, linked to those of family and school, which are the main contexts of reference, little pays in electoral terms - which, moreover, betrays a social deviation that our culture has undergone in recent decades, respecting a vision of the centrality of life that marginalizes the beginning and the end - all the more so, in periods of great political complexity such as those that Italy is living in these days and months, it remains strongly marginal. Therefore, a theme that combines more with celebratory moments (motions and the agenda of today derive from a call to World Children's Day) than with the drawing up of an agenda that specifies national and international policies to address the problems still open with maximum effectiveness. Mr President, in announcing our Group's vote in favour of the joint agenda, I would just like to make a specific contribution on one of the many issues that the debate has already addressed and analysed, starting from the reference to the assumption of a precise political duty that can and should respond with concrete measures - the Deputy Minister has made some references to this - to the rights of children set out in the two basic Conventions, the 1989 United Nations Convention and then the 1996 European Convention on the exercise of the rights of minors in Strasbourg, ratified in Italy in 2003. In summary, I recall the basic right that can be derived from these two texts, namely the right to full development and growth without any distinction or, worse, discrimination on grounds of race, language, religion or sex. It is therefore an appeal to governments to guarantee children social, economic and cultural conditions in order to consciously pass through that phase of life, which has just been defined in a very suggestive way as the dream season and the absolute good towards maturity, i.e. the acquisition of a full awareness of the role of autonomous persons and active citizens. In this respect, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Italian Government, together with the other Member States of the Union, will have to focus, among others, on the educational duty and the declination of this duty in certain specific areas that have so far been dealt with timidly, and also in recent important legislative measures, such as the law of stability or the school decree, have not found adequate room. These specific areas are in the order: policies for increasing school access; policies for combating school dispersal (which still has disturbing data for an advanced country such as Italy); policies for integrating the large component of non-Italophone foreign children (which are now about 7-8 percent of the total Italian pupils); and finally, policies for teacher training and support for families in difficulty, which continue to remain the priority reference contexts. Finally, Mr President, let me remind you that education and education are the only means of real redemption for children and adults as well. This country must finally remember this and translate it into concrete policies, even starting from the stimulus of a specific agenda such as this. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u100	WHITE (NCD). Mr President, as promised, I only speak to say that our Group voted in favour of the G1 unitary agenda (text 2). [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u103	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, we are very pleased that we have been able to sign this agenda by sharing the requests made. We are concerned, first of all, about the economic hardship of parents and the fact that they risk having difficulty in carrying out parental responsibility precisely because of these problems. We believe that the measures envisaged, as we have been told, with the allocation of aid to local authorities to support the most difficult issues, cannot completely resolve the current crisis situation. We believe, in fact, that the government must take more decisive decisions. What we are asking for with the introduction of citizenship income corresponds to the same request made by the European Union. As reported by Deputy Minister Guerra, a point has been signed that does not seem to us the most important one. We cannot subscribe to a contentment aimed at making people believe that political choices that have been launched for years have led to the current crisis. Therefore, we fully agree with the agenda presented, but we want to stress that serious measures are needed which, in addition to refinanceing Law 285 of 1997, lead to investment in policies aimed at raising the economic situation of all citizens and, in particular, those families with minor children, without limiting themselves to cases with major problems. In fact, we must also prevent it; we cannot think of moving forward simply with buffer policies. It is necessary to have the courage to take decisions that direct the funds in the right way and not to direct them again for other interventions. Fear is constantly manifested by you asking for the inclusion in the various acts of direction of the expression: "to evaluate the opportunity of....", instead, it is necessary to understand that it is no longer time to tergiversare, because the country is in great difficulty, as has been well illustrated by all the interventions carried out in general discussion, even moving and with a remarkable emotional participation. Because of the transversal nature of the theme of childhood and adolescence, which is recognised as a priority by all, there has been a convergence that must encourage the Government to initiate concrete and serious acts, without trying to make believe in the existence of aid when then there are no real and substantial implications. I would also like to emphasise the issue of mapping. We have requested that a mapping be carried out because, even if we know that there are some data (the representative of the Government has indicated some of them), we believe that we really need to monitor the exact number of family homes (as I have already pointed out in the illustration of the motion at my signature) and the validity of the structures present on the territory, in order to avoid continuing to direct funds in the wrong direction. Finally, we believe it is important that the whole world of school and education be refinanced, which can stem the dramatic consequences for children of deviance, the use of alcohol and drugs and, last but not least, child exploitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u104	Colleagues, having not been fully accepted my appeal and excluding the possibility of postponing the debate until next week due to the absence of the Deputy Minister, at this point I harmonize the times and announce that the maximum time allowed will be five minutes. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u107	Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I announce that the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group will vote firmly in favour of the agenda and will force the Government into the relevant Commissions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u110	MATTESINI (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and I welcome the unitary agenda. I would also like to thank Deputy Minister Guerra for reminding us of those progress that, although small, is worth highlighting. I believe that among the commitments made is the definition of the National Plan for Children and Adolescence, because it is the essential unitary instrument for defining a national strategy based on a coordinated and coherent approach, because dealing with children means taking care of children's life as a whole, from education to health, to leisure. Children's policies - this applies to all - cannot be the sum of individual interventions. It takes a vision of the whole. I'll add a provocation. I hear more and more (and every time I feel some anger and bitterness) that children and young people are our future. I think that in this sentence, which moves the rights which must be recognised today and which must become concrete policies to tomorrow, the explanation is that the political, social and economic organizations are late. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] Today we live in a damn present. The organization of our culture is based only on the right of a world of adults. Not caring for childhood and adolescence means continuing to make a fundamental mistake, namely the theft of the future towards our children. But we do harm ourselves, too, look, because we don't take care of the children, we don't even take care of ourselves. We're all busy thinking about a pension system. But if we don't think about why there is Christmas, we don't solve today, but not tomorrow either. I conclude by saying that today, unfortunately, we are an unconscious country of our own roots, we are an unconscious country and incapable of developing a vision of the future. I think that the absence of future vision is the main cause of the crisis we are experiencing. It is precisely from the attention dedicated to children and adolescents that we can find a right vision capable of building a community in which everyone can find their own well-being, the sense of their own life and relations with others. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u111	Thank you, Senator Mattesini, also for accepting my appeal.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u112	I greet the representatives of the BIM (Bacini imbriferi montani) of Trentino, here to attend the Federbim assembly, which attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u113	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda, with the amendments suggested by the Deputy Minister and accepted by the authors. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), presented by Senators Puglisi, Mussolini, Blundo, Stefani and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] Totally approved, since there is no abstention and no opposition. It really rarely happens.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u116	DE PIETRO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to what is happening against Piazza Verdi, the historic square of the city of La Spezia, whose historical and artistic value is a heritage to be protected at national level. The square is characterized aesthetically, as well as by vintage palaces, by a row of ten tall pine trees, which have particular historical and environmental importance, as they date back to the thirties of the twentieth century and consequently of great value, even affective, for the citizens of La Spezia. The current appearance of the square dates back to over seventy years ago, exactly in 1936, when the works recently completed were tested. The trees present there are planted in 1938, as documented by the administrative acts (resolution no. 153 of 30 December 1937, which authorizes the planting of twelve pine trees, and the subsequent resolution no. 31 of the Podestà of La Spezia of 3 July 1939, which reports the expenses incurred) and as confirmed also by the photographic material of the time. Therefore, because of their age, the pine trees are subject to protection, in accordance with Article 12 (1) of the Code of Cultural Heritage and the Landscape. On November 6, 2012, the Superintendence for the architectural assets of Liguria had authorized the municipal administration of La Spezia to build the main nucleus of Piazza Verdi for the realization of a maintenance project of the square, but after completion of the due procedure of verification of the existence of a cultural interest on the square in question. The first stage of the yard involved the felling of these trees, in the event that the above verification procedure revealed a lack of cultural interest. It is clear that the above mentioned note linked the realization of the Buren project, named after the designer, to the completion of the procedure for verifying the cultural interest and the evaluation of the elements characterizing the square, including the tree essences - as mentioned in the act - and to the maintenance of the historical-aesthetic identity of the site, authorising only interventions of a maintenance and non-renovation-innovative nature. In contrast to what was requested by the Superintendence for the architectural assets of Liguria, the necessary investigation has never been done. But there is more and it is even more serious: today we know, in fact, thanks to the self-protection verification carried out by the Superintendence for the architectural and landscape goods of Liguria, that the first authorization of November 2012, issued by the Superintendence itself, cancelled from office last November 15, on which was founded the right of the Municipality of La Spezia to proceed with the preliminary works of the project, that is, the definitive removal of the central row of pine trees results - and I quote from the acts - intrinsically and seriously spoiled. As we read in the acts, the first authorization is flawed in that it is based on erroneous presuppositions, misled by the evaluation, contained in the historical report drawn up by the director for cultural services of the Municipality of La Spezia, in which it was wanted to accredit that the treeline had been planted a decade after the end of the war, thus in a later period, leading to a misrepresentation of the facts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator De Pietro. DE PIETRO (M5S). In summary, in addition to the alleged administrative irregularities, the Buren project does not take into account the good practices that define the criteria for interventions in areas subject to historical, architectural and cultural constraints, in particular, this project ignores the 1972 Charter of Restoration, which introduces the technical parameter to assess whether a project is appropriate to the urban context surrounding it. What the mayor of La Spezia and his junta define as architectural redevelopment of the municipal urban structure, is actually shaping itself as a disastrous change in the appearance and historical value of Piazza Verdi. On November 8th, the Regional Directorate for Cultural and Landscape Heritage of Liguria decreed Piazza Verdi as a place of cultural interest, characterized by an essential compositional relationship made up of monumental buildings and elements attributable to the original layout of the 1930s, such as the tree-lined pine trees that characterize its central space. We need immediate actions within the respective competences of the Ministers to whom I have addressed an urgent question, to which I urge reply, in order to avoid the loss of the environmental, historical and landscape heritage constituted by the original complex of the Piazza Verdi of La Spezia. It must be prevented that an act of force of the municipal administration can affect, directly or indirectly, the historical pines of the square (and the square itself), for which, on the contrary, the Municipality of La Spezia must provide for the urgent maintenance for the airing of the foliage, the nutrition of the soil and the pruning of maintenance prescribed by the technical report concerning the assessment of the stability and health of the plants. Every day it is precious to avoid that, to the long list of ruins to the detriment of our country, also the voice piazza Verdi is added. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u117	Colleagues, I do not want to interrupt anyone, but I remember that the late-session speeches have a maximum time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u120	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am sorry to speak in this empty Chamber, especially for my colleagues in the Democratic Party, because this is also a matter for them. In these days the Turin Film Festival is underway, an event undoubtedly of international prestige that, being a worker of the sector, I have been following for years. Last year the director Ken Loach refused an award and made an assembly with the workers, declaring solidarity with them. I'm talking about the workers of the REAR cooperative, which provides workers to the entire museum and cultural area of Turin, including the Museum of Cinema. The workers of the Museum of Cinema are paid a misery: 4 euros plus a few change per hour. Moreover, the workers of the cooperative who rebel, express dissent and maybe are also part of real unions such as the unitary unions of base (USB), are ostracized and dismissed for retaliation. The REAR and the Museum of Cinema have been condemned for this. This year too, the situation continues to be the same. That is unacceptable. Meanwhile, the director Ettore Scola has also left the award to our mayor Fassino (it is not a morally acceptable prize), unlike Gianni Amelio who had defined the gesture of Ken Loach "narcissistic" and "megalomane". Congratulations to the director. Perceiving perhaps a thread of shame, the new director of the Barbera Festival declares that their salaries are actually from hunger and will be increased in 2014 from 16,17 euros to 20 euros per hour. So, a worker costs 3,300 euros, but takes less than a quarter. Why? How is that possible? This, my lords, is the equation of the delirium of externalizations, which waste public money and crush workers. But now there is a spontaneous question: who is the President of the REAR? Who makes so much money on the workers' shoulders? Here is the lowest point of this story and the most shameful, because the president of the REAR is the regional councillor of PD Mauro Laus, who defines himself as a "man of the reformist left," a perennial "boy of the Basilicata" (Basilicata). He is the richest advisor of Palazzo Lascaris: he earns more than 320,000 euros a year. He sits in the Culture Committee and directs a cooperative contractor in the culture and tourism sector. If it is not at least suspicious, this is unacceptable and shameful. It cannot, however, be that a dismissed worker who turns to the authority finds his own employer [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I also invite director Mazzacurati, who withdrew the award a few days ago, to return it as a symbolic gesture. I appeal to the Presidency of the Senate and to the President of the Republic of Naples, who I know is an admirer of the director Ettore Scola, to restore a minimum of dignity of the workers and the cultural sector, and are also limited probable - I call them "probable" for institutional correctness - and shameful conflicts of interests that take place every day. We also await from the Museum of Cinema the apologies, still missing, to Ken Loach and Ettore Scola. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-11-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-143.ana.u121	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.09 p.m.
