ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 5 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). I request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1174, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to the articles of the Decree-Law was concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u11	Barani (GAL). Mr President, we are here to talk about a decree-law that is a miscellanea, which does not have a homogeneous content, but of homogeneous in this period we have seen little. It is a measure called'manovrina', but it also contains important immigration rules. In this way, efforts are being made to allocate resources to the administrations which have to endure the landings of refugees and to the associations and committees which contribute to the reception of refugees. We do not know how to use them, but in any case they are provided. Where are they found? In important sections of the budget, from what concerns the repatriation of illegal immigrants to what concerns the fight against organised crime. Also, they are rained. Nothing is done to prevent, to prevent these waves of desperate immigration, favored by a communication that comes precisely from Italy, from demagogy and false populism, that the mass media amplify, depart towards our country. These poor people are enticed to come to Italy and stay there. Mr President, I would like to take the example of a country in the European Union, Poland, in which dozens of our fellow citizens, perhaps with a scarf of a football team (Lazio) on their faces, are still in prison waiting for trial. What did these kids do wrong? They must have shouted in a group and overstated their fan spirit. However, they are still there, while in Italy everything is admitted, everyone can come, everyone can arrive, in any form and in any way. They can also insult our public forces, they can smash our windows, and nobody says anything. It is to give an example of what is happening between Italy, Catholic Poland and the countries of North Africa, from which those unfortunates undertake the journey of hope, because they know however that there is a party of demagogy that invites them to come, perhaps even with their families. This is a point of the measure that deserved better management, with action on prevention. I know it's a difficult word, but we have to have the courage to pronounce it, otherwise we're out of the world. However, it is a manoeuvre in which we try to reduce the budget deficit in 2013 and bring the deficit-to-GDP ratio back to 3%, with a 0.1% correction. How? Doing an accounting assignment, like we were at school, taking it off one side and putting it back on the other. We do not think of structural maneuvering. We have chapters on which it is necessary, even if for someone painful, to put hand. We must not make a maneuver that moves, like Mussolini's old tanks, the budget posts from one side to the other. For example, health care should be helped to ensure that defensive medicine, which costs us about 20 billion a year, with a reform of decriminalisation of the medical act can return to the European standards of reference. And so for the bad management of justice, which costs 1.5 to 2 points of GDP (we are talking about a figure ranging from 20 to 30 billion euros a year), with the longest trials in the world and a preventive imprisonment that sees 50 percent of people waiting for judgment (40% of the entire prison population) then be innocent: we are talking about about about 13,000 people a year who are released because innocent, but first imprisoned for this schizophrenia of the magistrates who have on their side the right of life and death on anyone. We do not even say that there is a suicide epidemic in our prisons that is worrying. Since the beginning of the year there have been 51 suicides, about 20 percent above the national average. Again, we are expecting structural reforms, such as that of Equitalia, such as those which result in this counting for Europe and for Mrs Merkel: because we must say this, we must not hide it, this majority and this government are Merkel-dependent. This is demonstrated by the fact that there is a continuous race towards the European Chancellors. Bersani did it before when he was a premier candidate; so is the current Secretary Renzi, who before starting his election campaign went to swear allegiance to this lady who hurts Italy and Europe so badly: he does so much good to his country, which is a locomotive, but leads us to be his vassals. On the other hand, Germany has always had, since the barbaric hordes, the idea of invading Italy: it has done so in the last war with tanks, now it does so with finance and economy, and it has succeeded, with great results. Again: other reforms await us, such as that of the Regions. We know perfectly well that in the Regions there are stratospheric deficits, because when Bassanini (who will be remembered as one of the worst ministers that ever had Italy) did that reform, he did so (together with the good Giuliano Amato, when he modified Title V of Part II of the Constitution) that there was no more control over the expenditure of the Regions. This has resulted in the big holes that are present today in each region. Therefore, we are at the front door of the default that Argentina has experienced and for the same causes: the public debt, but in the local administrations, in the Provinces and in the Regions. And like Argentina of the past, which had the dollar as its currency, we have the euro as our currency. It is the same thing: we cannot devalue the euro and therefore we cannot stem how painful the future is for this short-sighted vision of the economy. To close, Mr President, we need structural reforms. We need a change of pace. We need to rediscover ourselves, to rediscover Italianity and our abilities. You do not realize the reality at all. I invite you to take the commuter trains one day and listen to their conversations or to go to post offices on the first or second day of each month to see the discomfort in the faces of the elderly who retire or talk to those young leaders who can't even get the money to go to college. It is daily life that I invite you to go and see. I invite you to live the reality of our citizens. At that point you will realize that this is an inadequate maneuver. We need courage, and the courage these communists, this left, cannot have it, because in DNA they are bad.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u14	D'ONGIA (PI). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I think there is very little to say about this decree-law. First of all, we declare our vote in favour of its conversion, but we ask the Government for a commitment not to go any further in this way: this decree-law contains everything, like the others we have examined in this House in recent months. However, I think it is time to reflect, although today we have to approve this measure because it is a patchwork to all that has been done over the years. The most shocking thing is that many of those who today do not claim to be in favour of his conversion are those who have led Italy to wear shreds, shreds that we are patching today. However, we must also make a clear, serene analysis of what the country is asking for, what the citizens are asking for, what we in this House are obliged to do: the serenity, the seriousness of our choices, responsible planning that no longer thinks, as is usually the case in this House, as is usually the case in politics, in the next elections but in the next generations. In Italy we need to change many things: we need to reform justice, we need to reform institutions, the country, lighten it from many unproductive pockets, those that create social discomfort. We have taken away from those who work everything that could be removed and given it, perhaps, to those who do not work. Today we need to make a calm analysis, but this task is not only for the majority, but also for the opposition, for those who were majority yesterday and who today are opposition and for those who, like me, until yesterday in this House were not there but who have nevertheless made a commitment to the citizens. And it is not a matter of keeping true to the promises made to its voters but of keeping true to Italy. Italy is one, only one, and must be safeguarded: our children, our productions, Made in Italy, the production chain that has been abandoned for many years. That's the only way we can breathe the country. This decree deals with issues ranging from immigration to public administration payments. We have been talking about this for almost a year and we still do not know how much these debts amount, we still do not know when we will be able to pay them, while we have to consider that on the other hand there are people who have worked, there are people who have to keep their families, who need to look ahead and have a future that is well defined. Therefore, the commitment that we as administrators of this state should make, now, at the end of the year, after the maneuver and the maneuver, after the patchwork of these great shreds, is not to continue to patch up the country but to redesign it and start from scratch. It is therefore necessary to clear those unproductive pockets generated by the politics of this country and by those who manage even outside politics. We, therefore, will approve the conversion into law of this decree. We will be together with the Government to make a new Italy, to make reforms starting from scratch, resetting the old, but tailor-made, decree by decree, position by position, to really think of a future. Our country must return to growth, it must return to what it has always been, one of the great countries in the world. So the commitment that we ask the Government, at this point, is to start again but with new foundations, with the basis of seriousness, functionality, looking forward to a future that is better. Our vote will be in favour, but we think that the government must make a commitment and carry it forward with great seriousness. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u17	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I shall make a brief explanation of vote. What we think of this measure we have already said in general debate. We are voting against for a number of reasons, but we certainly are voting against the philosophy behind this measure and it is accompanying all the measures that have been brought to Parliament's attention by the Government. In fact, we are moving forward with emergent interventions and we are late in dealing with the social and economic phenomena that we are faced with, with real, adequate and significantly efficient policies. Mr President, I am saying this because I feel obliged to do so in this very distracted Chamber too, so that it can be found in the acts of Parliament. Some phenomena are unleashing precisely because of our inability to attack this issue and to find solutions; we systematically refer to a better context the intervention on some phenomena that frankly I would have thought would lead to a lifting, even of a moral order rather than of a political order, by Parliament and political forces. Instead, these phenomena are metabolised, as if they were normal issues. If it happens, Mr President, that there is an ever closer way of manifestation at the border of violence, even direct and targeted, with a precise indication to democratic institutions, to those who represent them, to those who have obtained the necessary consent from the population to this representation, it happens that... (Brussio). It happens that, Mr President, we do not even talk about this in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I frankly believe that instead of these things we need to talk. The measure before us is the signal of a failure to respond to a need, but also the spy of the political idea that in this country it is necessary to arrive necessarily on the edge of the ravine to realize that we must change course, that is to say we must begin to count the victims in order to get to the awareness that it is necessary to intervene. If it is true that this measure solves financially some problem on the reception and immigration; if it is true that it tries in some way to make a piece of local finance give the feeling to the system of the autonomy of an attention from the Government (but the fact that it is given with the right and takes off with the left); if it is true that even one part of this measure is removed, because one risks endangering the same relationships also from the legal point of view between public administration and enterprises, if it is true, one does not understand why once again one has the hesitation to face the problems for what they are, in depth, in the part where they must be faced. I also hear the statements made by the Minister of the Interior, who says that he will not accept that the cities are being ironed and fired. I hear statements by political leaders, recognized leaders of political movements, who invite law enforcement forces not to defend political-institutional representations. I would like to know, however, from what: perhaps from the iron and fire to which the cities must be subjected? I feel a total distraction, a "do not concern me" in this House, intent on chattering, in which we approve a measure almost useless at the end of the year (one of the many almost useless measures that we have been forced to approve in this part of the legislature), knowing well the malaise outside of here, the indications, the dangers and the alarms that exist. I have already read this story: I have not seen it, but I have read it. That is why I want it to be written in the acts of Parliament, in this very distracted Chamber. I repeat: I have already read this story, and I want to make clear all the steps we are taking both with the quality of the regulatory measures and the lack of that institutional response that I would have expected from events taking place outside the parliamentary classrooms and outside the responsibilities of the offices and governments. I would have expected an indication, a reminder, a debate, the approach to a debate, some response. So I want it to be written in Parliament's proceedings that at least someone makes a reference to these events. I want it to be written in Parliament's proceedings, if something happens tomorrow, that someone, mistakenly, has given it. I want it to be certified in Parliament's proceedings that the highest authorities in democratic politics and institutions have not been sufficiently alert and have not adequately organised a positive response to listen to and identify the solutions that are the responsibility of the Government, Parliament, the legislative body and all the public apparatus, which we intend to defend, together with the rules that we are supervising today. These rules must certainly be changed, and for the better, knowing that they must not be deleted. For this reason, we believe - and we say it from the left - that a bit of order should be placed in the country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u18	Colleagues, before proceeding with our work I draw the attention of the Groups. I had already been told that there was the will to intervene on some issues that I have completely found and shared in the intervention of Senator Uras. Presumably, around 11 o'clock we will proceed to the final vote of the bill of conversion of the decree-law at our examination. I think it is appropriate and necessary - if the House considers it necessary - to use the remaining time to deal with the issues to which direct references have been made or on which a Senator per Group has been asked to speak, so that we can discuss everything that is happening, not only here but also outside Parliament. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u21	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is disappointing to speak today about a measure like this, which reaches the armored Senate and which is therefore impossible to change, even if it has been admitted by various parts of the majority that it contains some absurd rules. For example, what does the landing of immigrants on the coast have to do with the Stability Pact? You don't know. The first Commission, when expressing its constitutional opinion on this measure, should also have borne in mind the words of President Napolitano, who warned that the rules in a measure should be coordinated. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senator Palermo]] and easily accessible to citizens. The citizen must be able to understand it by reading a law. But all the provision is critical. A far-sighted government should reward those who manage public money wisely and virtuously. It is money that citizens pay by subjecting themselves to very high levels of taxation and therefore have the sacrosanct right to demand that it be spent well. What does this government do instead? It tightens for 2013 the coefficients of the Stability Pact in mid-October; therefore, in two and a half months the Municipalities must make the mortal leaps to respect it. At the same time (this is the shameful thing) cancels the rewarding mechanism linked to the virtuosity of the Municipalities. It is obvious that at this point in the year the municipalities have already made their own budgetary choices. Therefore, the strict demand can only turn into a postponement to the following year of the payments due to the suppliers and, therefore, into new debts for the public administration. I would remind you that a few months ago we adopted a measure which provided for an acceleration in public administration payments, but now we are again putting the municipalities in a position to create new debts. The cat biting his tail, I daresay. Moreover, since it takes EUR 1.6 billion to respect the debt constraints of public administration - this notorious mechanism agreed at European level - the easiest way the government has found what is? Hit just the municipalities that respect the rules of good management of public money. In fact, 450 million euros go to get only and exclusively from the virtuous Municipalities. So, what does this government do with respect to a municipality that was good, that respected the rules and managed the citizens' money wisely? It still penalizes him. The more you're a good administrator, the more I hit you. But do you think it's worth being good administrators today? Is it worth taking care of in managing money? Is it worthwhile to care for the fate of one's own citizens who pay taxes? No, it's not okay. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In fact, what does this government do to be good? It hit the virtuous Municipalities and tells the other Municipalities, those who have spent, have made debts and have not managed well, not to worry, because first of all it does not exacerbate the Stability Pact and, secondly, it allows to put debts within the budget, even if they were out of it. It's okay. Who cares? Gentlemen, the concept is that this government rewards the conduct of irresponsible and unfair administrators. However, there are other rules that are of no use to us in this measure. Among other things, 120 million were added to the municipal solidarity fund. But where do they go to get these resources? They pick them up from Decree-Law No. 35 of 2013. But how? A short time ago that money was used to pay the debts of the public administration and now, instead, the government takes them and puts them within the measure today to our examination. You don't know what the government's logic is. You just don't know. Moreover, those funds will be totally unused by the municipalities, because they are perverse rules: they give money, but the municipalities cannot use them because they are part of the Stability Pact, which they must therefore comply with. What happens then? It happens that the government shows the money, but it says not to use it because otherwise the Stability Pact is broken. It's a rule that doesn't make sense. All this is proof of the hypocrisy with which the government and, in particular, its left-wing component dealt with the issues of local authorities. On the territory and on the media they proclaim themselves close to the local administrators, condemn the Stability Pact and the budget cuts, but when this decree is passed in this House, which penalises them, what do they do? They argue that there is no problem, they vote quietly and who cares about the local authorities! Another absurd rule is immigration. Apart from the fact of creating from nothing a fund of 190 million for 2013, in order to cope with the particular and exceptional influx of foreigners in our country, also on this issue is evident the government's pre-pochism. Of this fund, in fact, nothing is known: apart from the fact that they go to the Ministry of the Interior, we do not know who this money will go to, we do not know for which activity and with which objectives. It is only known that 95 million will be used to pay salaries, but we do not know which and for which classification. By the way, I wonder: in two and a half months you spend 95 million in wages? The most scandalous and shameful fact is that, to cover this fund, the funds made available to the victims of the mafia and usury are used. In my view, this is inconceivable, and it is because it makes no sense. Many people in this House take responsibility for the tragedy of the victims of the mob and of usury, but only in words. In this House we are close to them, but then in fact what do we do? Let's take the funds out of them. This does not make any sense, ladies and gentlemen, because these people will be victims twice: before the mob and then this government. They then remove resources from the Return Fund. In this case too, does the Government want to tell us what its immigration policy is? In words he says that one must act in a certain way, but then in fact what does he do? It applies a series immigration policy: "Come all to our country. It's okay. You will no longer be repatriated. Stay with us because there's work. Come, come, immigrants! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In conclusion, this is yet another measure that rewards bad administrators, which favours irresponsible public spending, which makes it difficult to pay creditors and, therefore, businesses and their workers, who put immigrants and illegal immigrants first. Therefore, the North League will vote strongly against it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u24	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr President, the New Right Centre will vote in favour of this measure, which is part of a series of interventions aimed at tidying up the last months of national finance by linking them with the forecasts of the 2014 Stability Act. This measure, better known as "manovrine" is absolutely propedeutic and indispensable to the definition of the law of stability. It addresses, in addition to the issues of economic stability for 2014, the issue of immigration and urgency dictated by the rise of the phenomenon of landings and the need to provide for the related expenses to which our country is subjected. Meanwhile, we have appreciated the government's initiative to transfer part of the burden, as Italy has been saying for many years, but above all part of the political consultation on the management of landings and illegal immigration due to South-Mediterranean pressure on the European continent. Progress will certainly be made on this, and some have already been made. We trust that this policy will soon become the overall heritage of the European Union as a whole. On the financial side, we cannot fail to take note of some of the comments made by previous Members. You see, Senator Comaroli, if there are funds available, it means that they have not been used, and a government that has to rationalize the expenditure in order to provide for some emergencies can only draw from the funds that have budget availability. On Decree-Law No 35 of 2013 we accuse an absolute inertia of most municipalities in the use of those resources. The Fund provided for by Decree-Law No 35 of 2013 for local authorities has been partially used and it has been six months since the extraordinary intervention that Government and Parliament have made to make available to the public administration 40 billion resources to pay the creditor companies. If there is still residual money on those funds, it means that there has been an inertia on the part of many local authorities, and this is not only evidenced by the fact that there are still funds available: we who live daily the institutional and political reality of the territory know well that this happens also with reference to easily indicated credits and, therefore, easily payable. I would also like to remind all of us, and myself in the first place, that respect for the Stability Pact does not indicate the virtuosity of the municipalities, because it is still linked to the concept of historical expenditure, and since it has not been undertaken with great determination, as we have proposed in the amendments tabled in the Senate on the law of stability, the standard cost path. The increase in taxes on Italian citizens finds its greatest exposure precisely in local taxes; the municipalities that continue to administer badly are not then those who do not respect the Stability Pact compared to those who respect it, but those who have a high historical expenditure. It is not at all said that these are virtuous Municipalities if they continue to practice that expenditure and feed it with the increase of the rates to the detriment of the citizens. (at 10:17 a.m.) (Follow-up). All local finance needs to be revised and based on greater coherence with economic facts and critical masses of population. We still have over 50 percent of our 8,200 municipalities that are below the threshold of 5,000 inhabitants; we have critical masses to rethink, in order to achieve economies of scale and then seriously put hand to a local tax. The municipalities are not exempt from the phenomena of waste as they want to be believed, compared instead to the cuts that have always been operated at the level of the central machine. There is still a huge number of intermediate bodies and participating companies that operate without budgetary limits, without democratic control by the citizens, and therefore often in an absolute waste regime. When -- I hope soon -- we are going to put in hand a strong review of local finance and taxation, it may be that we will realize what are the real waste points on the part of public administration in our country, which continues to burden citizens for amounts that are 50% to 100% higher on average than in other countries of the European Union. Of this increase - I repeat - the local authorities are not free from responsibilities: on the contrary, I think that they are absolutely crucial in this situation that has occurred. Of course, we have a duty to frame local finance and to revise Title V of Part II of the Constitution. This supposed autonomy and this Italian federalism that has been realized produce more than anything anarchy of rules, where everyone tries to throw water at his mill, without considering that in the end everything rests on the shoulders of the citizens. This review will have to be done and I hope that it will be in the future programs of this Government and the next ones: otherwise, this country will be suffocated by the continuous increase in administrative costs, which then pay, as long as they can, the citizens. So the New Right Centro will vote in favour of this decree, essential for the reordering of national finance at the end of the year, with the hope that from next year we can put hand to a total revision of the regulatory mechanisms of central finance and local finance. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u27	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, in recent weeks a political line has been drawn up by the Government and by the majority quite clear and I would say worrying; a political line that is highlighted following the types of cover chosen. In this decree you take 35 million euros from the fund to pay the debts of the public administrations and 450 million by cutting the financial space that was destined to the virtuous Municipalities, while another 35 million are taken from the Fund for the protection of the environment and the promotion of the development of the territory; we find also the maximization of the IRAP and the IRPEF. Together with these, we find often used by the Government covers that distract funds dedicated to development and cohesion. From this picture it is clear that Government and majority, or rather the people who make up the Government and the senators of the majority, pursue the objective of handing the country over to the mafias, the crime and the potentates. Why do I say that? I'll explain right away. Because, if the State does not invest in the development of the territories (only in the territories we find in fact the information relevant for the development of the same), the development of these areas begins with an investment in the social capital, which requires an ability to interaction and cooperation between local actors. But how can these same local actors have virtuous behavior when the State itself does not set a good example? State that allocates funds... (Subsecretary Giorgetti converses with Senator Padua). Sorry, I'm just talking to the government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u28	Senator Padua, you should give the government representative a chance to listen to Senator Bulgarelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u29	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. I said that the State itself allocates funds and then commits them for another and discourages people to pursue legality, constantly imposing new taxes or simply changing their name, raising rates, punishing those who have virtuous behaviors and do not pay their debts. A state that does not once again invest in small and medium-sized enterprises. Every day we are witnessing the perpetuation of legislative injustices, because the people we impermeously call Government - including yourself, undersecretary Giorgetti - do not have the courage to assume the responsibility of bringing a real change in the way we live the institutions. The moment we are living is very difficult, but not so much for the crisis, not so much for Europe, but because there is no longer the surplus that used to keep politicians standing, indeed sitting, here, with clientele interventions, without cutting where one should and continuing to create new seats for retired politicians or friends of friends, continuing to hope that the crisis will end instead of making real structural reforms just because they would temporarily lead to impopolarity on the electoral level. The surplus is gone, so you don't know how to do it. It is time to make courageous choices, so as not to find ourselves in front of a country in rubble. The 5 Star Movement Group will therefore vote against the measure and will continue to vote no to the decrees that show that those who legislate do so inappropriately on the basis of indices, in this case those of the DEF Update Note, which were not real and therefore forced you to adopt this decree, so-called maneuver. You don't know what you're doing. I say to you, therefore: please, stop. No more lawmaking "on sight" without knowing where you want to take the country! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u32	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the decree-law that we have examined very quickly in recent days is yet another fruit of this Commission, the figure of which is the postponement. As regards referral back, you are creating confused and intentional measures which only succeed in the valuable undertaking to worsen the entire system of taxation and which are likely to bring back from the window what had just come out of the door. Simply read the decree of 30 November last to understand the controversy that followed: despite our battle for the abolition of the IMU first house 2013, Italians will still be forced to pay half the value of an increase decided by the municipalities with the increase of the rates. We said that then and we repeat it with the decree that we are going to vote. It is a decree, this, containing measures aimed at the rebalancing of public finance but that ignores that rebalancing, for us most important, that demand Italian families and companies: less taxes, even if they magically change name, in order to be able to start to save and, we hope, to consume. 10.25 a.m. (Following BONFRISCO). It is yet another sacrifice that Italians will have to endure following the demands of Brussels and the critical judgments on the economic policy of our country expressed to the Minister of the economy in particular, like those of Commissioner Olli Rhen, who, precisely by virtue of this 0.1% that we are going to vote today, has questioned Italy's ability to meet the commitments made in Europe; criticism based on an unshakable scepticism, that not even the strong voice of the Letta Government, as Mr Del Barba convincedly stated yesterday, has been able to overcome or even just crack. But perhaps because my colleague Del Barba was just a voice: other than the noise of the steel balls that we would have expected! A subtle voice, careful not to disturb the European balance based on a German leadership that defends with its teeth its interest and not that of the European one in assigning licences of credibility. Here is the difference, Senator Del Barba, between our different visions: we are proudly, as you said, among the founders of Europe, but we do not want to meet with the sinkers of Europe! As happened with the recent law of stability, the so-called maneuver does not affect the most important critical aspects of our economy and does not impact on the tax now unsustainable; it unfairly affects, as my colleague Mr Comaroli said, on public expenditure, further penalising the municipalities that know how to administer and not penalising at all those municipalities or regions that have shown clearly not to be able to administer. It also gives a worrying signal: to sell the state's assets to cover expenses and not to repay debts. It is as if we could always call the Bank deposits and loans to do what Minister Saccomanni does not succeed, does not want or does not know how to do, that is those courageous choices, by virtue of that emergency that had led us to the political formula of broad understanding; those now reduced to scarce understandings, as today's vote on confidence in this Government will show. This measure is a further small prop - perhaps useless, Senator Del Barba - to the stability of this Government; that stability that is a value if used to intervene against the economic cycle, to restore confidence to citizens, families, businesses and to start, step by step, a little at a time, the country outside the crisis. But it is no longer a value if instead it is used to maintain the status quo, or worse, to adopt uncertain or risky measures such as those on the revaluation of the shares of the Bank of Italy contained in the last decree-law n. 133, which will provoke many controversy that we will see and hear in the coming days. Rules that seem to want to open up to the entry of foreign members, thus calling into question the autonomy of our economy and the constitutional principle, contained in Article 47, which assigns to the Republic the task of regulating, coordinating and controlling the exercise of credit: such an important step for the great strategic choices of a country that we do not want to see written in a decree of urgency and that deserves instead important and significant reflections. You see, Senator Del Barba, I address you, also because we expect a different step from the representatives like you today, but I address above all to the representative of the Government, to my colleague Giorgetti: we have the clear feeling, Undersecretary, that, as over twenty years ago, the Amato-Carli Government privatised the savings banks by tearing them away from the control of the territory in order to participate, without controls, in the great binge of engineered finance, this Letta-Saccomani Government must complete the work and remove what remains of the Italianity of the banks of our country. To do this it was necessary to bring down an Italian governor like Fazio: a perfectly successful media-judicial operation (eight years later, who has among us the courage and moral duty to apologize to that man and to recognize him that he was probably right?); and in the same way a President of the Council such as Berlusconi, who would never give sovereignty over what remains of the Italian monetary power to the great bankers friends of Obama or Mrs Merkel, had to be overthrown. Stability alone, as you can see, is not enough and this decree does not guarantee Europe the return in 3%, as they had guaranteed the maneuvers of the last Berlusconi Government, operating a substantial work of consolidation, that none of you has the intellectual honesty to recognize, and managing at the same time to reduce, although little, the tax pressure in 2010 and 2011. The latter is an absolutely impossible operation for you, because your work so far has generated stagnation and decline, or worse, that cemetery of the useless stability where you will take us, as well described in the "Wall Street Journal" only a week ago. You will probably be accompanied by those drivers who are blocking the country to attract your attention. Undersecretary Giorgetti, I and you, who live and represent the citizens of our territory, we know that those drivers arrive from our territories; they come here to manifest their discomfort and their great difficulty. How will you explain to these gentlemen that in the law of stability you boasted to help them, while in reality you reduced the funds for the road haulage? Poor Senator D'Alì! Dear colleague D'Alì, after a few days, the world of the road haulage has sonorably denied you. It is a good thing that Berlusconi received yesterday an important delegation of this fundamental economic system for us, which calls for attention from this Government for a strategic sector for our economy. [[Comments from the PD desks. Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] What will you explain to those cops who took off their helmets for the conditions in which they are forced to work? How will you tell him that you have not been able to find 135 million euros to unlock their turnover, as we have asked you so forcefully in the law of stability, receiving a hard "no" from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and seeing instead allocated 10 million euros for the promotion of the Slovenian language in the public administration? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] Mr Fornaro (PD). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u33	Dear Undersecretary Giorgetti, tell Minister Saccomanni that those police helmets are for him and ask for his resignation! [[Senator Gatti's comments. Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] For these reasons I am voting against this unnecessary decree, which does not help Europe. I say this for those who are listening to us in Europe: this decree does not help Europe but deceives it. Our support goes instead to those helmets, to those policemen and to the values they represent, which are firmly close to those of our people, that people of freedom, whom we in Forza Italia represent in this House, that Italian people whom you have deeply disappointed! [[Comments from the PD desks. Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u34	Colleagues, as long as a colleague does not transcend, opinions must still be respected, even if they are not shared.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u35	I would like to take this opportunity to greet the students of the Istituto tecnico administrativee Stato (State Administrative Technical Institute) in Mantua, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u38	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of this measure, which has become necessary to contain the GDP deficit ratio by 3%, through the return from the deviation determined by the tightening of the economic crisis in 2013 which unfortunately reduced the country's growth capacity. I want to say very clearly to Senator Bonfrisco that respect for commitments with European partners is a choice of seriousness, which allows us and will allow us, without the subalternity that previous governments have had, in particular the Berlusconi Government, to assert the reasons of our country, even more in the near future, in the places where we will have to decide a different future for Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is the seriousness: keeping commitments is the fundamental condition to change the rules, to redesign a future of development for the whole of Europe, to move from accountant and imaginative exercises, in which Minister Tremonti was master, to a plan of solidarity and inclusive development for Europe. A passage all the more necessary today, which we see on the horizon old and new anti-European drives. We believe that the weight of the rebalancing, which, as we know, provides for a two-thirds share from the state budget and for a third from the local authorities, is correct, although we understand that the Italian municipalities are now in trenches to try to maintain the level of services, as well as to give answers to the needs arising from the new poverty, which are becoming increasingly established in our country. This measure incorporates the refinancing of 120 million of the Solidarity Fund and encourages the unions of Municipalities, a measure, albeit small, necessary, to trace a virtuous path. It should also be said that the reduction of EUR 450 million in the Internal Stability Pact 2013 is offset in the Stability Act by enlargement of one billion planned for 2014. However, we want to say that the central theme of local authorities is not only the spending capacity, but also the need to overcome too much legal segmentation. This is an invitation we make to the government for the next few years. The decree still contains other measures, on which I regret that my colleagues in the League have ironized in an unethical and unethical way. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara Elena]] For example, those related to the emergency in Lampedusa, where everything we know happened: with this measure is given an immediate response to the civil and social drama that has affected the entire national community and on which no one is allowed to speculate for bi-political reasons. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] There was the moment of tears and mourning, but there was also the moment of concrete initiatives, which today, approving this decree, become structural with the resources for the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors, with a fund for immigration to be allocated to women immigrants in pregnancy. That's what we're talking about. It is a humanitarian and civil plan on which we are all committed and on which we must continue to engage beyond political controversy. The rules on the payment of public administration's debts to businesses are also of considerable importance. As we know, this is one of the key points that will allow Italy in 2014 to realise in a convincing way the engagement, that we all hope, to the economic recovery. Also thanks to some changes made to the House to the original text, this measure removes some obstacles that prevented the acceleration of the payment of debts of the public administration to the enterprises. In particular - why not remember that? - the timing is defined, so the 2014 resources are already allocated by 31 March 2014, so very quickly, together with the resources not used in 2013 to anticipate liquidity. There is also talk of the thorny issue of off-balance-sheet debt payments. These are important choices, which will help the business world, on which it is necessary, we say to the Government, constant monitoring to verify the timely and timely implementation. As a Group of the Democratic Party we will therefore vote in favour of the conversion into law of this decree-law, convinced that it represents a further step in the difficult path of exit from the crisis with the recovery, in order to quickly restart the recovery. It is a message that is worth even more, Senator Bonfrisco, in these days when in the Italian squares there is a protest that certainly collects forms of social discomfort and malaise, but that tries to channel towards destructive outlets, not of the Government, but of the institutional structures of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]] I believe that the political forces, all of them, apart from the controversy, debate and dialectic that is necessary, should never use the demagogy that you used, Senator Bonfrisco, on these issues. [[Applause from the PD, PI and SCMpI Groups]] In the law of stability a great effort has been made for drivers. An agreement has been reached with their representations. Let us not smooth the hair of those who want to destroy the institutions. Let us also be careful to govern these things in terms of political gain, because it will not be a gain for anyone, but only the destruction of our institutional structures. [[Applause from the PD, SCMp and PI groups]] Therefore, we say, even in these squares, that the road today is not that of demagogy, violence or smoothing the hair of those who, defeated in Parliament, want to remake themselves riding the protest without outlets. [[Applause from the PD, SCMp and PI groups]] The way and the answer is that, step by step, only with the recovery and seriousness are the economic and social conditions built to respond to the tragedy of unemployment, of those who lose their jobs, of self-employment, of employees, of companies and families, who together have to rebuild this country. That is why we shall vote in favour and call on Parliament to approve this decree. [[Live applause from the PD, SCMp, and PI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u40	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u41	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to declare my dissenting vote by the Group. I will not take part in the vote, because I think it is now inappropriate to continue to vote on measures which are unconstitutional. I don't feel like going on like this anymore. We've been doing this for two or three years now. After that, I would like to say to my colleague Santini: the meetings take them out, go put your face on! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL-XVII Groups. Protests from the PD Group. You hear a whistle.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u42	If I pick up what he whistled, I'll suspend him until Christmas. We're giving the students attending the session a bad example. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Get the rallies out of here! And the ethics, I don't want to remind you, because the list would be long. You may represent one of the worst situations, because you come here to make a meeting and you don't have the courage to put your face on it. (
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u43	[[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u46	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u47	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the draft law, composed of only Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). Colleagues, since yesterday the closure of the sitting took place with a few presences, I would like to remind you that today, at the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I will bring the proposal that a hand and a head must correspond to a finger and not something different! The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u50	AMATI (PD). Mr President, today I want to speak in this House on behalf of the PD Group on a matter... (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u51	I believe that this is a matter of absolute importance and topicality. Therefore, if colleagues want to pay attention, they will remain, otherwise they will leave the Chamber. I would suggest listening to speeches on this subject, and I believe that, if shared, the intervention of all the Groups will be required in relation to the situation represented. Please leave the Chamber or listen to patients and interested parties.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u52	Mr President, this morning when I opened my e-mail, among the many e-mails that come to me every day, I found one containing the following statement: Politicians, you are the dung of mankind, and the gallows awaits you. Journalists, between truth and lies, you are prostitution. State servants, you are called to choose as long as you are in time. On behalf of the Group, I would like to address the seriousness of this type of e-mail intervention. I ask, of course, for the involvement of the postal police, just as it should be for the negationist sites. I read the same political culture within these statements. I also think about what is happening now (here we have some echoes). However, I do not believe that in all of us there is a proper awareness of the value of defending democratic institutions. When we ask that we do not speak in this way, that we do not use these terminologies, that we do not make certain statements, that we do not think about what can happen to us, because we are for the defence of democratic institutions obviously at any cost. On the other hand, we want to remember the history, other lightnesses, other inattentivenesss that have led to very serious ills in Europe. I would like to remind you that in the carelessness of the Facta Government a very heavy international tragedy has followed. I want to remind you that politicians and Jews were in concentration camps. I would like to remind you that in these hours, while very heavy and very little controlled action is taking place in relation to a destructive will of democratic institutions, in Pinerolo, for example, the few old ANPIs are deployed to defend the Commune against those who act against it. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL Groups]] I remember last night on television I saw a few workers in Turin, singing "Bella ciao" in front of the pitchforks. I wonder if our commitment, regardless of political belongings and even personal interests, is not to fight us all the way against this demagogy and anti-politics, which so far have served someone (even too much). We do not want to find ourselves in a country without democratic institutions, without the value of politics, without the true value that politics and parties have represented and still represent in the Constitutional Charter. Take care. I believe that colleagues in the various groups must also have pride and defend the institutions to the very end, as I believe it is a duty for everyone. [[Applause from the PD, SCMpI, PI, M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u55	D'ALI' (NCD). Mr President, you rightly wanted to introduce a queue in our work on what is happening in the country. We are absolutely convinced - and indeed we are here to work to try to soothe it - that in the country there is a state of discomfort that certainly affects the productive categories, the workers, the workers, those who, even with great difficulties, still manage to carry out their activities. We are also convinced that this does not justify the attitudes that in the last few hours and in the last few days are having so-called grassroots organizations that, under the pretext of economic hardship, find their way to create greater discomfort and to amplify it enormously on the easy wave of the demagogic protest. We still live in memory what happened a couple of years ago when entire Regions of Italy (in particular mine) were blocked for weeks by an irresponsible strike that, rather than producing positive effects on the population, caused harm to those who did it but above all to the citizens of the Regions involved. Everyone has the right to protest, but this right and this freedom must find a rigorous barrier at the moment when the freedoms of others are conscultated (freedom of movement, of supply, of normal existence). The protest is legitimate, I repeat, until the moment when it does not create a deep discomfort to the entire population or even to a part of it. The world of road haulage has no reason to protest before the measures that were taken just two weeks ago by the Senate of the Republic and that will be confirmed by the Chamber of Deputies in the approval of the law of stability, where all the conditions of incentive and support to the field have been restored. Therefore, all this becomes absolutely unjustified, if not for the sake of a populist protest, which we do not want to endorse, and on which indeed we share the net attitude of the government blocking any form of protest that brings discomfort to the entire citizenship. Democratic institutions - as Senator Amati said - are also defending themselves through respect for the rules, which many people always call for here, but which, on leaving this House, invite citizens not to observe. It is a phenomenon of great gravity, because together with the violation of the rules, of the law and of the modalities of strike and civil protest there are also phenomena of gravity much more important. In the strikes of the last hours, absolutely emblematic case, have been intercepted, as violators of the rules of our civil coexistence, citizens even foreigners, which means that there is a movement of attack on the institutions and our civilization absolutely organized, also through collaborations that certainly do not have the aim of promoting the economy of our country, but instead have the aim of destabilising its institutional structure. So we are very concerned from this point of view. I repeat, we have appreciated the intervention of the Minister of the Interior, who certainly responds to the orientation of the entire Government; we would also like to appreciate interventions that can restore for the citizens of this country the freedom of their normal daily lives. Certainly at this moment - as I said at the outset - we are committed to trying to solve economic problems as well, which are not only problems of incentive to individual sectors of production, but also of simplification, of better relationship between the tax and the citizen, of better relationship between the institutions and the citizens. But it is precisely from this House that there can be no call for protest and revolt that is reckless at a time when, even for the contingency of the end of the year, some productive sectors are waiting to hesitate their productions at Christmas holidays. Blocking the country at this moment, without an economic justification, but only on the wave of a populist protest, is irresponsible and can only cause further damage to all citizens and to the same categories who intend to practice a protest, which - I repeat - has no legitimate reason to be expressed, from the point of view of the individual sectors (perhaps a more general reason for the development of the economic crisis of the country), in the terms in which it is manifesting itself. We therefore ask the Government to confirm the announced line, to intercept phenomena of infiltration, which are not only phenomena of economic protest, but of terrorist infiltration and organized crime in these mechanisms, which seriously endanger civil coexistence in our country. [[Applause from the NCD Group and the Senators Micheloni and Amati.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u58	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to raise a problem for all my fellow Members: more than finding an answer at the moment, half a medicine, we should understand where the disease, the disease, starts from. The transport sector has played not one but a thousand bells, and has not been heard. We enter Europe, transport is transport, the means are moving freely, and our carriers say that they cannot withstand competition: Countries that pay labour a quarter of ours, fuel 40% less than ours, pay half the means, maintenance and insurance. They wonder how to survive. These classrooms were deaf and gray in front of such appeals. Companies are shutting down now. ISTAT data is a daily punch in the stomach: 400,000 companies close each year. What answers have we, the State, the legislator, been able to give? Firstly, the malt has not been returned either: we still have to repay the debts that the State owes to companies, which are already in enormous difficulty. In addition, we need to clean up the public accounts and, therefore, we have even dried up what little resources are left. However, we must help the financial system: because the business and business system does not find funding, we must finance banks that do not provide sufficient aid; the banks thank, they cash at costs very close to zero, but they do not grant loans because they find it cheaper and more convenient to make financial investments guaranteed without the risk of enterprise. In order to restore public finances, then, we block indexing. The blocking of indexation on incomes and pensions has made the purchasing power even weaker; in fact, the domestic demand of our country has dropped. Of course it has declined: the workers have run out of resources, there is no more money! We add that, when a minister started the reform of work to ensure that the system rebalances and holds itself, the majority of Parliament voted for it (we, however, did not believe it and we voted against it); now, after a year, a year and a half, we see that it has only aggravated unemployment. I remember that youth unemployment has reached the limits of which we may not realize: one in two young people does not work, and, moreover, families do not have the money to keep it. If you consider companies, transport and everything else, it is clear that you create an explosive mix. I don't know if we realize that. Someone realizes that and rides the wave. I don't know if all the triggers think it's right what Grillo did today, that is, the incitement directed to law enforcement to insubordination. Right now, we should use fire extinguishers, but we're using gasoline. I do not know whether that is the answer to be given today. In our view, irresponsibility has limits. I would like to address my fellow Members who want to listen and to give a little thought: are we talking about work and growth in these classrooms? We have to give hope that at least something will move. Here the arguments on which the country recriminates, which calls and invokes are laid down, are not discussed. In these classrooms we talk about reforms and electoral law: it will all be important, but now the country needs more answers. To make an analysis of the situation, I would like to point out that there is dispute over the competence of the electoral law between the House and the Senate: if there is even a dispute between the two branches of Parliament, this will trigger further the reaction of firing one and the other House! This will be the country's answer. I remember some nonsense, as a person who understands very little work. Although there were other times and different problems, I remember the Maroni reform, thanks to which INPS, employers and workers - the famous triangle - had benefits: the retired worker can freely decide to stay in work; he no longer pays contributions and the company pays him less; the INPS does not pay him the pension and everyone has an advantage. Today the conditions are different. If we want young people to work we start to wonder: what is the average life expectancy of a person (80-85 years), and how much will the INPS be called to pay to this person? Clear that out, let's let them retire right away. The twenty-year cost probably does not change and jobs for young people are freed at zero cost. One article, one micro-mini-reform would be enough. But that's not even what we're talking about in here! The problem is that if we do not deal with the issues of work, employment and growth, the pitchforks will eventually arrive in these classrooms. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u61	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the protest is the consequence of something. It is the consequence of deaf and sloppy political action. There's no listening, there's no will. The people of small VAT consignments are the gas barrel. Taxing the capital goods of small businesses. Taxing the wages of employees. Now! That's what you're wondering. Families are in precarious economic conditions. Forty million! You have committed only EUR 40 million on minimum income, a figure equivalent to that expenditure on photocopies in the House of Deputies. The people scream, and Parliament must legislate by listening to what the people have to say. You don't have to close! You don't have to close down and listen to the lobby. We must listen to citizens with an attentive, human ear. It is this: to return to human beings. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u64	Mussolini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank my colleague, Mrs Amati, who first wanted to introduce this issue into the Chamber after the vote on the bill of conversion into law of the decree before us, and I would like to thank Mr Calderoli who wanted to extend what could be an intervention on the order of business to one representative per Group. Of course, we are experiencing a dramatic moment: on the one hand we must (it is our duty as representatives of the people) listen to the desperation of the categories, of the citizens all, and on the other we must clearly condemn the violence and the attempt to destabilize. This doesn't help growth. We must find a useful compromise through listening and changing a dramatic bow. Let us remember that GDP did not have the growth that was expected. Then I want to touch on an issue that is always very close to my heart: the social data of growing child poverty. Of this social drama those who pay the most dramatic and serious expenses are our children, and I am referring to everyone, both our children and those who come from abroad, do not distinguish between Community or non-EU children. That is why we must banish violence. The message arrived at all of us via e-mail has been quoted, which, like other similar messages, shows a desire to destabilize. However, we must also understand the protest, if we want to be symbolic, of our law enforcement forces, of the policeman who takes off his helmet. In fact, of our law enforcement forces, which are even more than we are in the field, on the border, daily in the trenches, we must understand the needs: from morning to the series they face the thousand demonstrations and protests throughout the national territory, without funds. For these reasons, the government is asked for a real change of pace. Yesterday in my speech I asked where Europe is in the face of this despair. Italy, is just a step above Greece and is about to become like Greece itself for unemployment: it has been asked, therefore, where Europe is, which only demands rigour and sacrifices. Then, with common sense and great responsibility, the Forza Italia Group is next to citizens choked by taxes. As is well known, and we all know very well, there is the IMU chaos especially now, in December, month in which additional taxes will have to be paid. On the one hand, we listen to the citizens, but on the other we express a clear contrast to violence of all kinds. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u67	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I believe that the debate on the matter of trust will enable us to make a broader assessment of the issues on the agenda not only of Parliament but of the whole country. There is, however, one point on which I do not think we can pass at this stage as well. It is clear that the right to protest must be guaranteed to everyone: we can have different positions on the subject, but on the fact that we must guarantee everyone the possibility of expressing our dissent, it is clear that there can be no derogation. At the same time there can be no derogation from those who want to express dissent over the dissent expressed by the protest. It's an apparent bickering of words, but it's not like that. Freedom is that situation in which we make sure that everyone can express their own assessment, free from any conditioning, if not that of compliance with the laws. That is the point, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. There can be no areas of free will. A democratic country has its main foundation in compliance with the rules, which apply to political leadership, apply to citizens and apply in the first place to those who are called, also through the use of force, to the protection of these rights. The invitation from the leader of the 5 Star Movement to the main leaders of the law enforcement and armed forces of our country to rebel against democratic institutions is destabilising. It is an invitation that cannot be accepted even in its most labile expression, which is that of a simple joke. Our penal code is in charge of behavior of this kind. In this House, therefore, I call on those who have the task of verifying the criminally relevant behavior to act against the one who, repeatedly, overwhelms the rules and laws of our country. I would also like to address the police, in the recognition of a difficult and certainly not well paid job in relation to the sacrifices it imposes, the invitation to always have an impartial attitude, which is the main duty of those who are called upon to protect democratic institutions, and in particular an eye on those people who, in certain situations, are on the side of minorities. In Turin, both yesterday and the previous day, unacceptable situations occurred. The citizen who does not want to use the force himself, who could also have at his disposal, and who instead invokes the protection of the State, must have immediate answers. It is not acceptable to disregard, underestimate and compromise attitudes towards those who manifest without respecting the rights of others, rights among which also includes the exercise of business and commercial activity, which, in recent days, in Turin, has not been adequately protected. Therefore, I call on the law enforcement authorities from this seat to act with determination and the judicial authority to take the steps that are theirs. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Desenators De Monte and Cuomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u68	That concludes this brief debate that I wanted to have. I thank Senator Amati for wanting to urge him. Precisely because of the importance and gravity of what is happening, I have informed the President of the Senate of our discussion. Unfortunately, he was unable to preside, being held by a meeting at the Quirinale, but I think it is absolutely necessary to pass on this concern and debate to the President, because this is certainly a symptom of the distance that is being created between the institutions and the people. The thing I want to categorically deny is that someone can say that outside you think of the "forks" and inside the forks, and today we did. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u69	I inform you that, as already announced to the parliamentary groups on the short lines, at the meeting of tomorrow's question time, at 4 p.m., the Minister of Economic Development Zanonato will answer questions on the following topics: interventions for industrial crisis situations; measures to promote innovation and development.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u70	I greet the very young students of the institute including Marta Russo in Rome who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u73	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, with this speech I would like to draw the attention of the Presidency and, through it, of our Government, to the fate of 26 Italian couples blocked in Congo for almost a month with their respective children. It is a matter that I have already had an interest in a few weeks ago, perhaps too many, and that has reached an alarming gravity with the passage of time. Since last October, in fact, I have addressed to Dr. Bacchetta of the Commission for International Adoptions (CAI) a note in which I asked what were the obstacles to the definition and the consequent solution of the adopted practices envisaged, since the general direction for Congolese immigration had blocked the children coming out to our country. Apparently overcome this obstacle, our compatriots reached Kinshasa on 13 November, on the basis of the agreement signed by Minister Kyenge, on 4 November, for which the couples who were in possession of all the documents in order for the adoption of the children would be authorized to leave. Well, it seems that only one stamp is missing from the Congolese authorities to allow couples with their children to return to Italy. The expectation of such a process dates back to November 19th. The expectation is further aggravated by the precarious and worrying situation of the sanitary conditions in which these families live: without running water, with the mannaia of the antimalarial cover at the end and the impossibility of finding additional vaccines on site. After having heard the offices of Minister Kyenge several times, last on 6 December, and having sent a note to the Minister's attention to know what the initiatives he intended to put in place to heal this worrying situation, having not yet received a reply, I learn instead of today of the further precipitate of events. The press today, in fact, tells of the malarical contagion of a mother in Congo, as well as what appears to be a serious discharge of responsibility on couples of adoptive parents, in the sense that they can still return to Italy but without children. I am therefore calling for an urgent intervention - I think it is really urgent - by the Presidency on the Government to have an answer on this issue. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u74	Senator Stefano, I totally agree with what you just said.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u77	SIMONI (M5S). Mr President, fellow senators, I would like to bring to your attention the events of 28 November in Warsaw, where a group of about 150 Lazio fans, away for the football match Legia Warsaw-Latium, were blocked en masse by the Polish police. The accusations against the Roman children are of damage to means and things, use of ski masks (which is prohibited by Polish law) and aggression against the police. From the testimonies of the first released and those who have been spared from the police arrest, it seems that by the group of the Lazio fans some warriors have thrown objects against the Polish police. Surely part of the fans have a responsibility for these aggressive attitudes, but the Polish police's reaction to the entire group of Lazio fans seems to have been excessive. There are testimonies, released to the press, of young people forced to sign documents of admission of guilt in Polish under psychological pressure and cases of detention in prison instead of the normal detention in the police station. Now the kids stopped are 22. Foreign Minister Emma Bonino has already done his best, asking for explanations from his Polish colleague in Brussels, together with the commitment that the Italian ambassador to Warsaw, Riccardo Guariglia, is making: I hope that this will ensure that the treatment of Italian children in Warsaw is as fair and dignified as possible. I personally feel that I condemn any abuse of a position of any kind committed against foreign nationals by institutions of a State or by those who work for them. These incidents must serve us all to reflect on the same positions we take towards foreign citizens who transit or live on our soil. We must reflect on the prejudices that, rightly or wrongly, precede our fellow countrymen when they go abroad. When these citizens are then fans or supporters, prejudice is even greater and Italian society has the responsibility for it all. We are responsible for turning sporting events into violent events, on occasions when competition is exasperated to such an extent that it results in bell towering, nationalism and often also racism, with its resulting physical clashes. This episode must move us to make a cultural change in the way we understand sport and to move from the current vision of sport as a gymnasium for the exercise of aggression and violence to a vision of sport as a school of life and rules, because violence, in all forms, is social death. I hope that the Lazio supporters will soon return to Italy, without complications or restrictions of their rights. Above all, I hope that it will not happen that from a sporting event a diplomatic incident is born, because it would be shameful. The ancient Greeks suspended the wars in order to practice the Olympics; instead, today we need to stay in the war order for a sporting event! [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u80	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, with this speech I want to give voice and witness in this House to parents and to a boy who has been the victim of an attack in my city, in Parma. He was going to school by bicycle and, along the path of a public park, found two people blocking the passage. He asked politely to pass, but he was attacked: they tried to remove his cell phone and steal the bicycle and beat him. One of them had a cast arm and hit him with chalk. In general indifference, an 18 - year - old boy intervened in his defense, but he was also beaten. The boy had a total prognosis of twenty days, a head trauma, a trauma to the left ear, a small rupture of the eardrum, the rupture of the nasal septum and a dental trauma. The psychological shock was very heavy and still the boy has to recover from trauma. However, the fact is not new, unfortunately: the perpetrators of this attack were an eighteen-year-old and a seventeen-year-old, one of Ecuadorian origin and the other of Romanian origin, already known to the police. The sense of this episode is not new is evident, because it poses the problem of the necessity that in this country the season of rights and duties returns to be a real season. It is not conceivable that in the face of such situations the state does not have the capacity to react and to guarantee security to its citizens. The two attackers the next day were around the city and were still in the same places frequented by baby gangs, ready to repeat such episodes. I am absolutely in favour of integration, but I believe that the state, in terms of action to protect security and public order, cannot fail to take a different line. In this key, I believe that the judicial action must also be more effective and that the policy towards illegal immigrants or illegal behaviour must be more decisive.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u83	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, since we believe that the protests and demonstrations that are taking place in recent days are right and sacred, precisely because this Parliament, the current majority and the Government do not seem interested in the problems of the Italians, of an Italy that is really dying (the companies are closing, the people are increasingly unemployed), I would like to point out that in Turin in these hours, as Mr Buemi also said, some very disturbing facts have happened. Just yesterday I heard a statement from the representatives of the "forks" in which it was claimed that the demonstration should be peaceful. Aware of the usual attention that exists for public order in Turin when waving a flag No TAV or there are marches or demonstrations of students in the city, we note instead that real violent gestures have been carried out, intimidation of groups that are not part - evidently - of the demonstrations, but that they have allowed themselves to threaten unarmed citizens, streetwalkers, merchants, small traders throughout the city, in the popular districts as well as in the center. We do not know why these intolerable, unacceptable acts of violence have not been prosecuted - I would ask the Minister of the Interior and I would be sensitive to the Presidency - because indeed, if we define the No TAV movement as a subversive movement and then allow small groups to threaten motorists or shopkeepers to close, then the reason behind it is almost justified or, in any case, there is a suspicion. I call for the intervention and attention of the Government and the Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u84	Senator Airola, curiosity is also my personal because, like you, I have seen the videos in which the people who have made themselves responsible for these gestures and for these infiltrations are perfectly identified. So, I hope that someone will finally pick them up and prevent infiltration into manifestations that change nature and spirit precisely because of the presence of these subjects. [[Applause from Senators Council and Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u87	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, thank you for allowing a short space for a very important and interesting debate. Following this, in order to point out the inadequacy of the current Government, I must point out an unfortunate fact that has alarmed the Trentino very much, namely the announcement of the Minister of Health Lorenzin regarding the closure of all hospital facilities under 200 beds. In Trentino we have four hospitals - Cles, Cavalese, Borgo Val Sugana and Tione - where there was a social alarm: the Minister arrives and closes very important hospitals on a territory of particular orography, not of plain, as you know to be the Trentino. I therefore turn to the Government: the two Provinces of Trento and Bolzano are not part of the National Health Plan and do not participate in the repartition of this Plan. They do not pay the National Health Service because they cope with their own health costs. Trentino-Alto Adige pays its hospitals and their maintenance, the health and nursing staff with its resources, undoubtedly different from the other regions. There is a primary competence on this matter and if the Government is not yet aware of it and the governmental structures continue to mess up, this is the invitation to the Executive: brakes, before going to face very expensive appeals that would present the autonomous provinces and that the Government would inevitably lose, and avoid continuing to create alarmism, because people from irritation quickly move on to anger, and we live at a time when we do not need either mistakes or further injure people. [[Applause from Senator Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-149.ana.u88	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 11.29 a.m.
