ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u3	The next item is the communication by the President of the Council of Ministers. After the speech of the President of the Council of Ministers, the debate will take place, the timing of which has been divided between the Groups for a total of 2 hours, as established by the Conference of the Leaders. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Letta.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here today to ask for a vote of confidence for a new beginning, with achievable objectives and certain times, especially with the determination to fight with all of myself to avoid throwing the country into chaos at the very moment when it is able to rise again. True, Italy today is a fragile society and stunned by the crisis; but at the same time it is a society ready, after so many sacrifices, to start again. It is our task, indeed our obligation, to guide it in reconstruction. Being here for me today is a privilege and a duty together, because this is the Parliament of the Republic, because the institutions demand respect; they always demand it and they demand it, all the more so, in such a bitter time, in which more and more people try to admit Parliament with illegitimate words and actions. They are words and actions that are the daughters of a political culture that puts journalists on the index, supports violence, wants to do ruins of the buildings themselves of representative democracy, gets to incite the insubordination of the police. [[Live, sustained applause from the PD, Mixed-SEL, PI, SCMpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, Mixed-LN, GAL, FI-PdL XVII and NCD. The Senators of PD, PI, SCMpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, Misto-LN, GAL, FI-PdL XVII and NCD stand.]] Forces of order that, instead, here I want to thank before you - as you have just done - and to the country, for the unquestionable fidelity to the Republican values that demonstrate every day Ladies Senators, on October 2, in spite of the final vote, I addressed myself directly to a new political majority in support of the Executive that I chair: a smaller majority in numbers, but more cohesive in intent; a majority that proved to be so with the vote of confidence right here in the Senate on the law of stability. Today what I ask you to confirm that confidence, to mark even formally a discontinuity, to distinguish well between a first and a later. We know the first one. I claim the positive experience of these months and the commitment to work with dedication, despite intimidation, aut aut, threats from which I have chosen to keep, as far as possible, the government sheltered in these seven months. I claim it because I have always considered this experience as the transition from a situation of toxic opposition between enemies to a system of healthy competition between opponents; a transition obliged by the outcome of the vote in February, but, above all, by the necessity - which I judge, today more than then, inescapable - of filing a waste of twenty years. With the exception of some important achievements - and the entry into the euro is obviously among them - there have been too many missed opportunities: the opportunity to reform politics and institutions was wasted; the chance to reverse the decline of the Italian economy was wasted before the crisis intervened, like a hurricane, to upset the lives of citizens, families and businesses. The alibi was too often the conflict - a seemingly insanable conflict - between two Italies, but the cost of this alibi proved to be very high for all Italians, condemning the institutions to impotence. I spoke in my April speech about the responsibilities of this failure: no one can be said to be acquitted. On the one hand and on the other, it has not been possible to resist the temptation to qualify always and only by contrast, because the patient and tiring search for solutions useful to Italy have preferred shortcuts, slogans, consent here and now. The government that I chair was born from the commitment of the parliamentary majority to overcome these vices and to temporarily distinguish politics from politics. Despite the mutual distrust and infinite wounds of the past, I think that many people have lived this commitment with genuine conviction. Last summer, the mission of service to the country itself attempted to put a single issue before it, so much so as to use it as an ultimate condition compared to the life of the Executive. In Silvio Berlusconi's judicial case I have not entered these months and not today. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] However, accepting the assignment from the hands of the Head of State, Giorgio Napolitano, who goes every day, as well as my personal gratitude, thanks for the sacrifice [[Applause from the PD, NCD, SCMp, PI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE Groups]] But I said that I would not be a government at all costs. It wasn't a government at all costs. I said that respect for the separation between the powers of the State and for their full autonomy was the limit not to be exceeded: that limit was not exceeded. All this I decided also taking the risk of going home, and that's why today, having taken that risk, I feel more strength, I feel that we have to use it, I feel that we have to use it to the best. So, in spite of those who say that nothing ever changes, the political transformation that has taken place in these seven months is by far the most radical of the entire Second Republic. There was a first, there will be a later. And the next is a new story to write; a rejuvenated political leadership of a few decades can and must do so in just a few months, legitimized by courage and participation, on one side of these classrooms. Parliament can and must do so, under penalty of condemnation of perennial ungovernability, paralysis, similar chaos or even worse than that experienced in the two months of limbo that separated the February vote from the re-election of the President of the Republic. In order to prevent this risk, I ask you to work together. Many of the objectives to which I will refer today are indeed the result of a common consensus based on initial confidence and subsequent developments. We will then carry them forward quickly. Today, however, the coalition is different, it is more united. There are, therefore, the conditions for defining in the coming weeks a government pact between those who choose to give us the trust, a pact that I want to call " 2014 commitment." This debate within the majority will delineate in a more definite way the points on which I ask you today for confidence. However, to be clear, the new beginning is today, it is with today's vote of confidence. The insights we will make in the majority will not be opportunities to call into question the cardinal points of the work for 2014, which are in the speech on which I am asking you for confidence. The commitment is what we assume with Italy, before between us: it involves a more collegiate articulation among the new parliamentary groups of the majority that have formed; it involves trust, mutual trust; it involves respect and linearity. In recent months there were no conditions to follow up on a similar proposal of tenor that Senator Monti had addressed to me: I had to take note of it reluctantly. Today these conditions are and certainly help the solicitations, which seem to me perfectly modular, expressed by the new leaders of the Democratic Party, the New Right Centre and the new parliamentary Groups For Italy, as well as of course by Civic Choice with Monti for Italy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to draw attention to the great objective, within the eighteen-month time frame, which I indicated in April. In the House there has been a misunderstanding about these eighteen months: it is not that I go forward seven months in seven months and every time I say that we start again with the timing of the eighteen months; it would be fun if things were so, but I am not. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I said 18 months at the time of the vote of confidence in April and confirm them here. Within that time frame, which has already allowed us to do some important things, the great goal is to have institutions that work, without dragging things, and a stronger and stronger democracy. Reforms certainly take the first place here, not only because no credible and effective institutions are involved in any government action, but because the decision of the Council has freed us from the worst electoral law in Europe, and this requires us to find solutions as soon as possible. The urgency and the new political framework lead us to realism: the choice of Forza Italia not to guarantee support for the reinforced path of constitutional reform, which had reached the threshold of the last parliamentary passage, obliges an honest act of the need to change course in order to avoid a delay of time, an extension that would be a capital error. We have to get to the result, and quickly. For this reason, I propose that we work on the procedure of the current Article 138 of the Constitution and that we focus on four objectives of change. The first is the reduction in the number of Members, a priority which is widely shared in this Parliament. The second is the abolition of the Provinces from the Constitution. The draft law on this matter, very simple, has been submitted and deposited for a long time by the Government. He expected the adoption of the constitutional bill establishing ad hoc procedures in relation to Article 138 for constitutional reforms; this path no longer exists today. Therefore, at this point it is good to proceed immediately today by taking up the text of the simple constitutional bill that removes the word Province from the Constitution. The third: the end of the perfect bicameralism, with a single Chamber that gives confidence and makes the laws and the other that expresses more fully the plan of connection with the autonomy, already present in the Constitutional Charter. The fourth: a reform of Title V of the Constitution that puts order in the relationship between centre and decentralised powers, improves the role of the specialty and clarifies the responsibilities of each level of government, limiting to the maximum those competitors in favor of the exclusive competence of the State or the Regions. Starting with a majority debate, which is then open to all political forces, draft constitutional laws will have to be quickly drawn up to achieve these objectives. It will be very useful, in this, the work of the Committee of Wise Men, which I thank all for the dedication and quality of the proposals submitted to the Government. From there we will start with the reflection of the next few days on these four points. Those who try at this point to blow up the reform bench will respond to the citizens, citizens who will still be called to decide in a referendum whether or not to confirm a reform that will enable our institutions to function better and Italy to shake off the image of the baroque country, unstable, that can never decide. I now come to the electoral law. I focus on two aspects. Firstly, we must avoid an excess of fragmentation of representation, which would condemn us to ungovernability. As President Napolitano warned, the democracy of alternation is an indispensable objective and requires us to move towards majority mechanisms. Secondly, the blocked lists have finally been deleted, denial of all criteria of merit and representation, anthem to co-opting. It is now essential to facilitate citizens' choices and to create as direct a link as possible between voters and their elected representatives. No one, we first, thinks of a punitive electoral law against others. The Government and the majority, first of all, and Parliament all work in the next few weeks to give effect to the decision of the Council and return to the citizens the scepter, that is the right to choose who represents us and who governs us. Also on the abolition of public funding of parties we must get to the word 'end', just as it happened immediately with the elimination of the double salary of parliamentarians members of the Government. This elimination of the double salary of the MPs of the government I promised at the birth of the Executive, and we did it. On the abolition of public funding, I have repeated several times that, with the cooperation of the Government and Parliament, an issue could have been closed by the year, the endless dragging of which rightly makes public opinion rage across the board. The Government has approved the proposal, then improved and dismissed by a branch of Parliament; however, too many months have passed since its launch in the Council of Ministers. That is why I confirm here my will to complete the matter definitively by the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, in April, before you and the country, I committed myself to a programme of economic reforms. I do not seek extenuating and deny that the continuing threat of instability has contributed to weakening the government's action. However, I remain convinced of the goodness of our approach. We have put important measures in place, but above all we have favoured an economic policy based on respect for commitments, on the one hand, and on the creation of conditions that can support recovery, on the other hand. The fall in GDP has stopped, as shown by yesterday's figure on the third quarter of the year, the first, after more than two years, without a negative sign. Of course it is not enough, but from here the country can start again. Of course, however, we must implement the measures that have already been adopted and immediately put in place the necessary reforms to make the recovery of competitiveness structural. Confirming this approach, five points must, in my opinion, be the basis for our commitment to re-launching competitiveness in 2014. Firstly, we must continue to reduce the debt, the deficit, current expenditure, taxes on households and businesses, both small and large. Secondly, we must achieve a growth of the order of magnitude of 1% in 2014 and 2% in 2015. Growth, therefore, will become structural and will be accompanied by effective aggression against unemployment, starting with youth unemployment. Thirdly, public investment must be relaunched by spending the resources allocated, by eliminating bottlenecks in the implementation of decisions taken on infrastructure and works, large and small. Fourthly, we need to update our industrial competitiveness policies in support of companies, particularly small and medium-sized ones, so that they are increasingly innovative, digitised and internationalised. Fifth: a more favourable climate for investment must be created through the "Destination Italy" plan, with the sburocratizations, the opening of the markets, the simplifications, in particular of the labour and tax codes, and the reforms of justice. 2014 - I said - will be the first year with the sign more after the darkness of the crisis. It is a result that is not taken for granted. Although with many difficulties, we can collect the dividend of stability, without which we would certainly have had a further increase in interest rates, which in turn would have strangled growth. With the choices made in recent years we are the only great country in Europe, with Germany, under 3% of deficit; the primary surplus - that is, expenditure net of interest - is 2.5%; we are, therefore, always together with Germany, among the most virtuous in Europe. True, we have a colossal public debt. We're attacking him, he's going down in 2014. Is this important because Europe is asking us to do so? Even. But it is especially important because such a high public debt in relation to GDP costs us too much interest: this year we will spend almost EUR 90 billion of interest just to make the debt we have on our shoulders alive. Ninety billion euros: as much as a dozen stability laws. Money wasted. Here in Parliament, we see ourselves for a few million: let us imagine what we could do with just a quarter of that 90 billion! Now is the time of actions on the real economy for workers, artisans, entrepreneurs, professionals, traders. Meanwhile, the instruments developed in recent months are already in place. Who wants to invest in machinery and technological equipment, thanks to the new Sabatini law contained in the decree of doing, can do so, cutting down interest on financing and with a state guarantee. Those who want to hire a young unemployed person can do so with the extraordinary incentive of total decontribution. Already, therefore, a first sign on that road of reduction of labour taxes that we undertake in the law of stability and that we will strengthen further. Who wants to give a job to a person of any age, who is out of production cycles and in difficulty, can do so, benefiting, from the moment of employment, the residual social shock absorber. Those who want to renovate their homes with environmentally friendly criteria can now do so with a tax discount never so high, and on the house I also want to highlight the funds put in support of the blameless morosity, young couples and precarious workers. I could continue, but I know that much more needs to be done than we have done so far, starting from an unavoidable priority: the aid for those Italians who have exposed the crisis to levels of vulnerability that have never been touched; the unemployed, whose families are slipping towards poverty; the exodus, for whom the answers, even partially arrived, are still incomplete; the young people, frustrated in not finding a job; the elderly and pensioners, for whom the first measures for non-self-sufficiency contained in the stability law are necessarily to be strengthened and the indexing of pensions to be extended; the disabled, for whom a reversal of trend has taken place on certain items of social expenditure that will be strengthened next year. Again next year, we want and can experiment with new instruments of support for active inclusion, as foreseen in the reforms of these months. We must ensure that they work well and are extended in a structural way since 2015. All this with obsessive attention, but clearly selective to the Mezzogiorno. Similarly, in 2014 we will complete the reform of social shock absorbers: they must be designed better and extended to those who live the extreme personal and family vulnerability generated by the closure of many companies, small and large. In a climate of social dialogue, we must move towards a system which favours the worker over the workplace. No one has to stand back, no one has to feel the cold sense of loneliness. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] I ask you to re-launch together the strength of the community, the role of the intermediate bodies, of associationism, of volunteering, the economic strength and competitiveness of women who today do not value as we should and, above all, how it would serve. For this reason, after having activated the forms of incentive provided by the measures on women's employment, 2014 will be the year of measures on reconciliation between work and family, on which we are already acting for a long time. Italy is and must be a community, I will never tire of repeating it: it is a capacity for enterprise, innovation, dedication and pride of work. We are the fifth manufacturing power in the world and the second in Europe. Among the top twenty industrial chains in Europe, ten are German, but six are Italian. We have the second European agriculture for added value; our export grows, renews and finds new markets; we are one of the few major countries in the world to present a stable structural trade surplus in manufacturing. We are therefore reacting, but we must not give up using our talents and, in particular, the three most important resources: first, human capital; then, beauty and culture, focusing on tourism, the environment, the great opportunity of the Expo, vitality and creativity; thirdly, companies. It is true that we have lost a great deal of industrial capacity in services over the last twenty years, but there is still a lot of it and a lot of it can be recovered. Let's start with the young, the girls and the boys. On 1 January it will be an important day: the Youth Guarantee will be launched, the new instrument that was approved in June. For Italy it is a great challenge: there are resources, everything is ready, now it must be implemented. We then brought education and research back to the top of the priorities, first with the decree-law, the education restarts, and, in the coming months, with three concrete commitments. First of all a plan, to be implemented by March, of incisive interventions to re-launch the university and research, putting at the student centre and quality of the system, strengthening the evaluation, new rules for the financing of universities and student contribution, standard cost per student, investment on the right to study. Secondly, a constituent of the school to be completed by June, in order to adopt the actions with the precise objectives: young people must graduate first, with better skills and a clearer orientation on future vocational choices of higher education. Teachers must have adequate training opportunities and stable recruitment and career rules based on transparency and merit. The education cycle must begin for all with childhood school, which is a children's right and an instrument to facilitate reconciliation between family and work and equal opportunities. [[Applause from the PD, PI and SCMpI groups.]] Finally, young researchers. After bringing the turnover to 50%, we must proceed along this path. The bureaucracy cannot engulf the autonomy of researchers and their international vocation. In this spirit, in our six-month European Presidency, we will work to promote the mobility of researchers and to complete the European research area. The second aspect: beauty as a great economic resource. We will continue with the action that has been taken, confirming our commitment to investing in culture. In January, the decree to relaunch tourism will come to the Council of Ministers. Also in January, will be launched the call for the annual project "Italian Capital of Culture" that on May 27, the anniversary of the dramatic massacre of Via dei Georgofili, will culminate with the designation of the first Italian capital of culture for 2015. Closely linked to these issues are, of course, the environment and the protection of the landscape. We must choose the path of prevention, efficiency, the fight against waste and sustainability. We must increase, and we will do so in the near future, the investment against the failure, starting from a better spending capacity of the funds already available. At the same time, we need to simplify the procedures in order to implement early and well the actions as foreseen in the Green Agenda, the environmental link to the law of stability. We need to approve the bill for the containment of soil consumption as soon as possible. We then put the competitiveness of the economic system at the heart of our economic action. One important factor is, as I have already said, the reduction in labour costs. We began to deal with it with the law of stability. Parliament has committed us to employ in the further reduction of labour costs the proceeds of the revision of expenditure and the return of capital from abroad. We will insert this automatism into the last passage of the bill of stability, after having discussed it with the social partners. "Destination Italy" is the plan for the attraction of investments and the revival of competitiveness that will be instead Friday in approval to the Council of Ministers. We want to give investors and entrepreneurs certainty of procedures, certainty of timing, including justice, certainty of tax, all to abolish or simplify unnecessary procedures and to modernise the entire public administration. Within the plan there will be a tax credit for research and funds to stimulate the digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises. Again. On Friday, we will be speaking, with "Destination Italy" in the Council of Ministers, also on another of the restraining factors of competitiveness, namely the high cost of energy. A reduction of 600 million euros on the bills that is added to that already previewed from the decree of the fare. In order to revive the competitiveness of our system there is also a need for the State in some areas to be able to play its role well, certainly not in the old way, but with an effective and modern use of the new instruments in the field, with a wide spectrum reflection in order to avoid losing valuable assets and to concentrate resources on system operations and opportunities not to be missed, both at home and on the European and foreign markets. On this I expect important contributions from the discussion on "Appendum 2014". In addition to the law of stability and of "Destination Italy" the Government then launched - we have already talked about it - a plan of dismissals. The first block, which has already been presented, is between EUR 10 billion and EUR 12 billion, which will largely reduce debt. We know that the issue of disposal is a sensitive one, because too many have been the mistakes of the past. I want to make a commitment: no one dreams of selling out to cash. I believe deeply in the role of the State, but I also believe that the State, in order to be credible and functioning, should not take care of everything. The arrival of private capital can be a turning point to inject fresh resources, re-launch production, ensure the development of the companies involved (e.g. Fincantieri and SACE, which will draw fresh resources from the exploitation for their development). Next year, as part of the second half of this disengagement plan (and I repeat, we are talking about dismissions of quotas, not control) we will study with the company and the unions the opening of the capital of Poste and other companies and the participation of the workers in the share ownership, allowing them to represent in the corporate bodies. It is a unique experience, an attempt - that of experimenting in Italy with the German Mitbestimmung - destined to better influence industrial relations and the business model in our country. The opening-up of markets, infrastructure and consumer protection. In this respect, we must continue on the path of greater openness, including through the presentation, soon, of the annual competition law. The timetable of liberalisations begins this month, however, with the entry into operation of the Transport Regulatory Authority, one of the key sectors for our economy. It will become operational on 19 December, a fact that testifies to the seriousness of our action as a guarantee of the system. In 2014 we will present then the national plan of the ports and the airports that identifies and sets the priorities of the Country. Today these structures act in competition with each other without planning or synergies. It is a great national operation that we must do, of industrial and strategic policy. In addition, in the next Council of Ministers, as regards the protection of competition and the opening up of markets, we will start from the insurance sector with an intervention that will significantly reduce the rates of the RC-Auto. In order to restore confidence in citizens, the State must play its part, first and foremost with the revision of expenditure. Commissioner Cottarelli's work is certainly about savings, but it must also lead to a radical change of mind for the public sector. In these weeks, then, the Presidency of the Council, at the end of a difficult reconnaissance in August with the cutting of blue planes, managed to give resources (50 million) derived from the sale of blue aircraft to Civil Protection for the fire-fighting fleet, which was in a state of non-operational condition. Even this was not a promise, it was a fact, which was realized today. These interventions reflect the new guidelines of the Presidency that we will ensure are shared in the approach and priorities of the other ministries as well. More generally, we want to proceed quickly with the reform of public management, in order to strengthen competences and incentives for administrative efficiency. Changing an administration that loses and wastes too much time. That is the great goal we must have. According to Doing Business, Italy is in 138th place in the world for tax complications. Our companies spend 269 hours a year to pay taxes against 176 of the OECD average. We have introduced into the decree to make an important principle: the administration, the public, must pay every delay. We must continue to remove the causes of the very high number of state convictions on the reasonable duration of the trial: a cost for public finances and the emblem of civil justice one step away from bankruptcy. Third point: can a simpler country be obtained only by law? No. It goes through the results and evaluation of public policies. Too many simplifications- slogans have remained on paper. For this reason, a simplification counter will enter into operation in 2014 to verify and evaluate the performance of the public administration. The government must act transparently, clarify the public policies it pursues, account for their implementation. We are building, as is the case in the United Kingdom, a unique website of the Government, the agencies and the public instrumental bodies in which public policies are reported in detail with the objectives and results expected, the actions taken and the obligations to be undertaken. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic made an appeal in September to the dramatic prison situation. Parliament is responsible for some of these matters, which will decide independently; but what is within the competence of the Government is ready. I said this on the occasion of the first vote of confidence, and I want to repeat it today: we are the home of Caesar Beccaria, and we want to prove it. We also want to demonstrate this in the fight against corruption and mafias. Too many municipalities have been dissolved in recent years for mafia infiltrations. How many criminal economies have we seen thrive in the crisis, in the shadow of phrases such as the Mafia does not exist, or does the Mafia exist only in the South? How much illegality is there in the defaced territory, in the wild cementification that leaves us unarmed in the face of the hydrogeological disaster? How much do we owe to the courage and self-denial of the men engaged in the front line against the mafias, men to whom the Government will not lack proper support in the coming years? In this regard, the decree on the land of fires was a strong response after years of immobility. [[Applause from the PD, SCMp and PI groups]] We have reinforced the repressive instruments, soil characterisation interventions that hinder the risk of compromising land farming and resources in support of reclamation activities. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to draw a line today. Hence, those who love Europe, recognize their contradictions, want to reform it, do not delegate the responsibility to others to try to do so, they know that without the European Union we fall back in the Middle Ages. ( [[Applause from the PD, NCD, SCMpI and PI Groups]] From there, those who want to block Europe, those who go against its limits to speculate on the malaise, unemployment and the fall in consumption of these five years. The separation line is the clearest: no nuances. The mandate I am asking of you here today is to build a better Europe, together with those who recognize themselves in this area. Those who want to isolate Italy do not vote for my government. Those who want to gain consensus with anti-European populism do not vote for my government. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, SCMpI, PI and LAG Groups]] Colleagues, the distinctive feature of populism is always inventing an enemy against whom to dump indignation and turn it into conflict. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Lezzi]] It is used to conceal the weakness or inconsistency of your proposal. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Nugnes]] It serves to avoid having to respond with credibility and seriousness to its actions. A strong policy of one's identity and ideals dialogues, discusses, fights and respects. Italy has a solid, deep and noble European identity. We must be proud of that. That is why the debate on Europe that we want to have in the coming years must, once again, move on from Italian protagonism. In order for this to happen, Italy must be credible. It must be united on the great interests of the country, it must equip itself with a political and institutional system understandable, transparent, able to decide. In order for this to happen, therefore, Italy must have the accounts in order, as today happens, and it must make the reforms, as in 2014 it must happen. For six months, since July, we will be leading Europe, in one of the most tormented times in European history: a Europe besieged everywhere by populist and xenophobic forces; a Europe that has so far been unable to get rid of its distortions, and for which, for the first time in a long time, no one is able to foresee a shared perspective from here to a decade. I want to do an exercise here with you. The decade: let's try to see what the situation was like ten, twenty or thirty years ago. In 1983 the goal ten years later was that of the single market, of the four freedoms, of the Europe of Jacques Delors in 1992. It's been realized. In 1993, twenty years ago, the ten-year project was to put together, after putting together the borders that were breaking down, the currency, and therefore the economic and monetary union, which then took place in the following decade. In 2003, so ten years ago, what was dreamed of at the age of ten? We dreamed of the reunification of the two Europes, that reunification that today, year 2013, leads us to live a Europe in which the Presidency semester - this semester - is led by a country that twenty-five years ago was the Soviet Union: Lithuania. This is the sense of the success of our common European adventure, which, however, we are asking ourselves today: in ten years' time, what is the shared project that we have? We know that problems are born here, because there isn't. That shared project in Europe, which on the other occasions I mentioned was and was shared by the institutions and member countries, what is it today? There's a lot of them, fragmented. But if there is no plan to link the individual reforms that are decided from time to time, Europe will stop, it can implode under the weight of the social drama caused by the great crisis. It is in this spirit that we are committed to managing the semester and living 2014 as the year of Europe, a different and better Europe than today. Nothing more shortsighted and dangerous than considering the Presidency as a ritual and bureaucratic appointment. We must therefore play in attack, convince others of our good reasons. It means not to be afraid of those who lurch over the fears of the citizens, nor of those who try to preserve the existing for their own national interest; it means to speak to the public opinions of the great countries that resist and repeat, unceasingly, with credibility, that without Europe no one is saved, not even Germany. That is why I propose four concrete objectives, which are fundamental for Europe and for our country. The first is to commit to achieving a genuine banking union immediately, starting at the European Council on 19-20 December, with the aim of lowering the cost of credit to businesses and households and preventing new crises in the banking sector tomorrow. The second is to fight to give the euro area a financial capacity that encourages Member States to make the last mile of reforms and make them more resilient to economic shocks. If this step towards genuine European solidarity is taken, then we will not be afraid to consider the creation of contractual arrangements for structural reforms and we will work to ensure that they are signed for growth, voluntary and linked to financial incentives. The third is to push for a more balanced government than economic and monetary union, and above all for more convincing policies to combat unemployment, especially youth unemployment, starting with the important intergovernmental summit on the work of young people next spring in Rome. The fourth is to interpret our Presidency as the one that closes the legislature of crisis and austerity and opens the legislature of stability and growth in Europe. Our six-month Presidency must be an opportunity to give new energy to a Europe that today has its batteries off. We want to redesign an economic strategy for Europe that, after austerity, points to innovation, a European research area, green technologies, investments in the sectors and skills of the future, policies for manufacturing. The great project - which I mentioned earlier - must be that of a united Europe; the one of which, ladies and gentlemen, we missed yesterday, in Johannesburg, when, at the perhaps most suggestive event of this decade, we Europeans were all there, but the protagonists were others. In addition to Mandela and its South Africa, the world has listened, among others, to the United States, China, India, Brazil. And we Europeans, divided, have been silent and non-protagonists. Yesterday's message, ladies and gentlemen, is whispering: we no longer have time. The world changes, and it changes without waiting for us. [[Applause from the PD, SCMp, PI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and NCD Groups]] Only united we can really count, only united we can make decisions to manage dramas that we alone cannot manage: I think, for example, of the great phenomena of migration. And let me address here a moved and heartfelt thanks to all the Italian sailors, military and volunteers involved in the operation "Mare nostrum". [[Applause from the PD, SCMp, PI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, FI-PdL XVII, NCD and GAL groups. Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Colleagues of the League, these ironies about our sailors, who saved 2,000 people from death, are unacceptable! [[Live applause from the PD, SCMp, PI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, NCD and GAL groups. Numerous members of the PD Group stand. Comments of Senators Candiani and Crosio.]] On this, too, we can and must be a factor of stability towards an increasingly unstable Mediterranean and towards the Eastern Neighbourhood countries. We can be a global actor, capable of defending and promoting its interests and values with security and defence policies and development cooperation, whose basic law, in Italy, we will reform in 2014. We therefore want to talk, ladies and gentlemen, about a Europe that is not only an economic market, but an area of rights and people, an area in which citizens can recognize themselves and be recognised as protagonists. Everyone's Europe, the neighbouring Europe, the souled Europe, not the cold Europe, which lies elsewhere, which is only in Brussels. We want, in short, a semester that connects Europe to the future, as we have always done in our history as a great founding country. Europe has changed Italy for the better, today Italy must help to change Europe for the better. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today more than ever, therefore, Italy needs competence and passion. We need those values and those feelings that each of us, at some point in our lives, felt, really feeling part of a team; in mind a precise goal. It takes effort, always indispensable to succeed in something. We need people who trust each other; we need a few words and good examples there. Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to be here to convince you that we will play the attack, because Italians have the right to see their sacrifices paid. Now that this is about to happen, we will not allow Italy to sink again. [[Live applause from the PD, SCMp, PI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and NCD groups, whose components stand up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u5	I note that motions for resolutions No 1, by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romano, Zeller, Susta and Nencini, and No 2 by Senator Calderoli have been tabled. Any further motions for resolutions should be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u6	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today we have very much appreciated your speech: punctual, with certain dates on which to define the objectives. It is not a criticism of watching a change of pace. (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u7	I call on my colleagues to allow Senator Lepri to speak. I would be praying to those who should leave the Chamber to do so in silence. Senator Lepri, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u8	Of course, it mainly helps the most cohesive majority, but certainly also the fact that we can count on the strong and determined leadership of our party, which is the main supporter of this Government. So far, for many reasons that you have rightly mentioned, we have travelled with diesel. From today we can put the turbo. I therefore confine myself to a few points, without repeating the crucial points already outlined in his speech, as a further stimulus to an ambitious and convincing 2014 programme. As far as institutional reforms are concerned, I would like to point out the importance of intervening also on expenditure other than the costs of policy, from which much more substantial savings can be made. The application of the standard costs at each level, starting with the Ministries, which should have a comparison with the counterparts of the other States, passing through the Regions and the Municipalities, will have to take place without any further failure to the logic of the horizontal cuts imposed by the lobby and bureaucracies. A reflection will have to be started on why so different transfers between the different regions are still expected today. There will be no coherence in the repeal of the Provinces without even a serious reorganization of the peripheral joints of the State. The privileges of the high state and regional bureaucracy must be reduced, which is also allowed to accumulate different incomes, although probably and hopefully, carrying out only one activity. At least those senior executives who, called upon to write laws for national and regional governments, make it difficult to understand them, feeding the costs for their interpretation, or those who, called upon to define redundancies of public personnel, prefer to distribute the same productivity premium to all employees at the end of the year. Finally - but the list could continue - we should work much better on how to encourage, perhaps oblige, the associated management of the fundamental functions of the municipalities. With regard to labour reforms, the Youth Guarantee should be done well, but it is certainly not enough given the dramatic situation of youth employment. Pending structural reforms and their expansionary effect on employment, a large programme of useful work is needed, focusing in particular on civil service and training internships. More generally, today there are the political conditions for a radical return to the functioning of the labour market, hampered by too many laws, complications and fears. It is time to experiment with new forms for a single entry contract with progressive guarantees. [[Applause from Senator Ichino]] It is time for a contract for the relocation of the unemployed, which gradually replaces discretionary, questionable forms of social shock absorbers. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Ichino]] It is time for a simplified code that allows foreign investors to look at Italy without thinking about the jungle. Finally, I would like to recommend even more determination in the fight against waste. Let me give you two examples. The Minister of Health has rightly pointed out that the ticket system must be revised, since - I add - only one in five is called in Italy to pay them, while the other four are somehow exempt. The Minister for Labour has indicated, by presenting the programme of support for active inclusion, how considerable resources - billions - can be recovered from certain social security and welfare measures where there is certainly injustice and opportunistic behaviour. Question: do we have the strength, does the Government have it, not only by relying on the commissioner for the spending review, to put hand on these and other distortions of public spending? I think so. We have to face courageously unpopular reforms for some, but in the end they can be appreciated for the most. Let us have this time the courage that, for too long, has been lacking. [[Applause from the PD, SCMpI and PI Groups Congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u9	Senator Tarquinio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u10	Mr Letta, of course I will go by flash, because in four minutes I do not know what can be said. Time and hours are wasted in unnecessary debates in this House and then, at times when everyone has to express their opinions according to their own thoughts, four, five or six minutes are allowed. It is a responsibility that I attach first and foremost to the Leaders. And then you lose hours to do something else. Mr Letta, I was struck by one of your words: 'Do not give me confidence who does not believe in Europe'. I believe in it: I come from Christian Democracy, from the age of sixteen, and I have done five regional legislatures; I come from the school of De Gasperi, with all that is achieved. However, I cannot believe in this Europe. I want the United States of Europe: I fully believe in it, in every respect. But today there are the United States of Germany Unfortunately, as usual, Germany - as we all say - is doing the third world war: but it is doing it not with tanks, but with other means. We can see that, that's a fact. We need to be able to fight it. We are not getting anything in Europe. Eliminate investment from the Stability Pact? No. Do you want to take anti-cyclical measures to combat the recession? No. Realising the Banking Union? No. The European Central Bank as the American Central Bank? No. Why, when the United States showed that with that kind of policy they came out? Because someone's comfortable with it, but we certainly don't. From this point of view, I am totally for the United States of Europe. I believe it is the only project - as you said - that will save us in perspective. But first of all, Germany, which is one of the countries of the European Union, is not the European Union. This is a first problem, which already distinguishes us from certain issues. Based on the culture I come from, I'm not an opponent like that, just to be an opponent. In this law of stability I don't see a soul, I don't see a hope, I don't see a breath. I often wonder if we all realize what the country is experiencing (and I am not talking about "forks"), its despair and its problems. We don't realize that. We talk to ourselves and we waste time discussing constitutional reforms, which are important, but at this historic moment we have to worry about the people who are outside (not the "forks"), the people who are at home, the moderate people. We have to worry about them, if they lose patience: and they are about to lose it. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, courageous acts are needed. They have not made them for thirty years; you do them, make them the cohesive majority you speak of. Very well, there are 500 useless bodies: they are indicated by the Monti Government. We've closed 39. It closes them - Parliament still has time - and will recover billions of euros to be allocated to employment, not forgetting the enterprise that in the meantime dies. We have to pay the debts of the public administration, but this bureaucracy stops us. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, another courage is needed to address this elephant in the public administration. We know there are too many of them. It was a time before, today is another time: we have to deal with this problem. The union compares on these issues; it is not possible to stand still as we stand still now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Tarquinio. Tarquinio (FI-PdL XVII). I know, that's the problem. Well, we talked about nothing or almost anything, but we have to close. I say to you, in the final analysis, that you will never have a preconceived opposition from us, no matter what you think. On serious problems we have worked together before and we are still working together today: but on serious facts. We are ready and have no problems of any kind. However, Mr President-in-Office, a little more courage and a little more soul are needed. The bill of stability is still in Parliament: take action. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to address the Southern Ministers: how did you manage to accept a cut of 2 700 million from the FAS funds for the South? Before that 85% of the funds were allocated to the South and 15% to the North, while now 80% is allocated to the South and 20% to the North. And you've been completely silent. There's no way, there's no word on the South, there's nothing. The South needs to be helped, because of the peculiarities you were talking about. And it's a South full of such good will. You can't keep cutting. The Southern Ministers cannot do this. Let us not forget that disposals are dangerous: but you did not say a word. I also tabled an amendment on this point, but it was rejected. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Tarquinio. Tarquinio (FI-PdL XVII). As far as I am concerned, I am voting against for the reasons I have said, especially with regard to Europe. But remember, Mr President, that there is no wall on this side: there is a political force ready to cooperate. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u11	Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u12	Mr President, I will say a few words, so as not to add further to the very delicate moment we are experiencing. Unfortunately, the historical and dramatic references from which we have tried to warn our students, our children, materialize before our eyes, or at least their ghosts. What is happening makes us think of Weimar's so-called Rossonera pickle, which crushed, also helped by an ungovernable proportionalism, the democratic forces, made fragile and helpless by the weakness of politics. Here, Berlusconi and Cricket these days, when they chant on pitchforks, they risk to be our reddish knife. The impotence of politics that paralyzes us is not attributable to this Government, denounced by many as weak. Guilt and responsibility lie in decades of conservatism and immobility. In reality, however, we must be grateful to this Government because, if stability and small steps are not a value in themselves, in certain historical moments - and ours is one of them - they are in an absolute sense. The realism of the possible is the soul, the heart of every truly responsible attitude, which is not only declamation and demonstration, and this Government has demonstrated it. Now, however, you were saying this very well - and my Group's colleague was also explaining it effectively in his speech - that we need a new start, so that we can avoid the outcome of our Weimar. Therefore, in three points: we must be tough with a Europe that bends us, a Germany that does not want to understand us; we must be tough with ourselves, not abandoning the spending review, easing the tax pressure, focusing on growth and above all - I stress - restoring dignity to work; we must be very resolute about institutional reforms, mono-cameralism and electoral law. The moment is topical and very serious, dramatic, because we need the realism of the small steps and together the strength of the radical changes; because we must do in a short time what politics has not done in so long. So, in conclusion, congratulations, President Letta, to you and to all of us, united in the task of keeping realism and hope together. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Romano and Giannini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u13	Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in the political and institutional system that has arisen since the general elections has created an emergency situation in which responsibility has been assumed by each of us. In fact, the outcome of the February elections had in the formation of the Letta Government the only solution to be able to act together in the interest of the country. However, this has been possible through agreements between opposing political forces, which, as I have just said, have required both personal and party responsibilities. Today, as then, the conditions for the current Commission to continue its work peacefully have remained intact, just as we still have the same responsibility before the parliamentary mandate. The New Right Center was born out of a strong sense of responsibility before the nation; for the need to build a political area that looks to the future. We are aiming at a moderate, genuinely liberal centre of right, with a European footprint, in fact, which enlivens the values and principles that Italian politics needs. It was, it is and will be necessary to recover an identity of strong values and principles, which in the programmes of the political parties seem to have watered down already for some time; at the same time, of course, it will be appropriate to fill the action of politics with programmes that look at the reality of today and the new generations. There has been and still is at stake the estate of the Letta Government: not just any government, but an Executive that is in a delicate historical-institutional phase of republican life. On the same confidence already given to the government, the facts have given us: can we imagine in what chaos we would all have found ourselves in if the recent ruling of the Constitutional Court on the unconstitutionality of the current electoral system had found politics and institutions unprepared, or started towards new elections with an electoral law that would not have guaranteed neither the bipolar system nor a strong majority for the country? After years of sacrifice, after the last months of effective action by the Government, Italy has made encouraging as important progress in various sectors: the spread in decline, the economy begins its slow recovery after a long phase of staticism, the image abroad of an Italian policy finally more stable again to give confidence to our country to investors and economists, as well as to the same international policy. In short, the process of serious crisis that had worn out the country is finally reversing its direction towards recovery: a positive trend that absolutely must not be put at risk by crises of any kind, especially if dictated by games of power, or worse, by personal and electoral interests. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, people are disoriented, they do not understand, and they seem to lose even more confidence in politics and institutions; politics and institutions which today, more than ever, have to respond seriously to the needs of the citizens and of the country, and do not give the impression of dealing with the many problems that afflict us with discontinuity. In this sense, joining the New Right Center means being responsibly consistent with your mandate, because you need to stay on the field to work, to continue working for the good of the country and present and future generations. And here I would like to recall Alcide De Gasperi, who said: A politician looks to the next election, a statesman looks to the next generation. Now, in the emerging new political and institutional framework, we need to continue to maintain a majority in Parliament in order to implement the reforms announced several times. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am beginning to conclude this speech by hoping that the political crisis that we are beginning to throw behind us, as well as any crisis that might recur, will be taken as an opportunity to unite and build, and not to divide and destroy. Therefore, all of us will need further and continuous efforts to implement the programme of this Executive which, in addition to the reforms to be carried out (from the electoral to the justice and the reduction of parliamentarians), will have to implement the planned measures in the economic and social field, such as the reduction of labour costs for businesses and workers; it will have to pay attention to the reduction of public expenditure, reformulate the spending review and give Italy the decisive role it deserves in Europe also in view of the European Presidency in the second half of 2014. These are the urgency of the country to which we must continue to give answers, without abandoning the field or further fractures, and the New Right Center will continue to work on this line, contributing to the implementation of the ambitious, courageous and necessary program. Therefore, I am even more motivated to continue my commitment as a senator by sharing the program that President Letta has outlined, following the political line of the New Right Centre with full momentum and responsibility within the majority and with all those who want to share this responsibility for the good of the country. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u16	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you did not ask us today for confidence in a government programme, but on an intention, that of a new start. I hope that this new beginning will be marked by a radical break in continuity, first of all because we must completely abandon the illusions of broad understanding, not only because they have restricted themselves after the transition to the opposition of Forza Italia, but because they were a stale formula, among other things taken from the time of the Cold War, which claimed to solve the serious problems of society by lowering a reform from above, making it a peacemaker who had been the main responsible for the non-government of the country, and even suggested the wrong idea that it had not been governed by the Constitution and not by the irresponsibility of governments and coalitions. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]] The second thing that has to change radically, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - I tell you with affection and esteem - is its economic policy: an economic policy that suffers from continuous mediations, compromises, the willingness to please everyone by discontenting everyone, in fact. You're a man of good reading, you know about the New Deal. In the face of the crisis Roosevelt proposes a great effort, does not try to stop all the holes that the crisis has produced. I remember Arm of iron saying, eat spinach if you don't have meat. This is what the Italians ask; they also ask to make sacrifices, but they know what the goal is. [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] If, on the other hand, it is proposed to cut the tax wedge and then give figures that are so ridiculous that they cannot be said in the newspapers, it means that there is no center in economic policy. I've heard too much in your speech today. You rightly criticized populism, which is what you said, President Letta, but be careful because the strength and danger of populism lies in locking up those who are not populist in the tower of the Palace. This is the danger of populism; a palace from which you cannot get out, as in Buñuel's Exterminator Angel. We must therefore go among the people and, even before the reforms - which will be done without the amendment of Article 138 of the Constitution, I note - we must change the electoral law in order to give those things that have not been given so far. I say by the way that the electoral law has not changed it because we have been shy in doing the political battle on it so as not to disturb the government alliances. I would like to make one last point, which concerns Europe. I am a Europeanist, like Altiero Spinelli, but, President Letta, today there are unfortunately two types of Europe: a German and a Mediterranean. To hide this fact and to think that Angela Merkel is convinced, at the table, during the Italian Presidency, is insufficient. It takes a strong initiative from Italy, with Spain, France, Greece and Portugal, not to break up, but to convince the Germans, starting with the fact that the welfare that the German Social Democratic Party has obtained in Germany applies to us as well. I have been engaged in these days, as you all know, in an extraordinary campaign for the primaries of your party, President Letta. I did it with the Civati motion, and it was very interesting. We have taken note, and we have also had a very new and very important consensus, which I believe is a start for the Italian left. However, I must note that most of these extraordinary primary voters have called for renewal, but without tears. That is why I will give you confidence, but I remain very critical, and I hope that my criticism will be constructive. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Campanella and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Minzolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u18	Mr President, Senators, I would have liked to have the Head of Government in this House, pardon the Head of State, who - excuse the Freudian lapsus - is the real Head of this Government. Now in this semi-presidency system, introduced surreptitiously in our Republic, the President of the Republic does a bit of everything: he indicates more or less the programmatic lines that the Government must follow; he chooses the Ministers; he indicates those that if they are mistaken they must resign and those that, in order not to put into crisis the political framework, instead, they must not resign (the story Cancellieri docet). Finally, it is always he who decides, or arrogates the right to decide, that we cannot talk about elections at the moment. It doesn't matter to him that there are the conditions necessary to move forward in the legislature: they are heresquilies. How is it a quisquilia that the Council has uncovered Pandora's box on electoral law, casting a shadow on the legitimacy of this Parliament: and of course on what it has decided in the past but, all the more, on what it will decide in the future. Exactly, he decides like a monarch, what's good and what's wrong. The only thing that has been understood is that this Government, in the head of the Head of State, must last regardless of what it does, in the name of stability, a stability so unarmed and immobile that the Wall Street Journal has renamed, the stability of the cemetery. You, President, say that your Government and your majority propose not to reject the country in chaos. But the risk is exactly the opposite: it is inertia in the face of the crisis that has generated chaos, which has caused the wave of protest to grow. This government had at its disposal a large majority to revive the economy, to start a process of peace, to ask a German-centric Europe to abandon an austerity policy that condemned us to recession and embrace a more growth-oriented one. Very little has been seen of all this. Today Minister Saccomanni said he was happy because we moved from a growth of -0.1% to a growth of zero; an assessment that made me smile and aroused the irony of his reference shareholder, the new secretary of the Democratic Party. You see, an economic policy worthy of this name does not just wait for the positive economic situation, Godot does not wait for it: other European countries with less blazed names than ours are divided (from Ireland, Spain, Portugal), we are not. Today you have proposed to us the usual encyclopedic program, which, however, allow me, yells with what your Government has done so far: it wanted to revolutionize the country, but it is still struggling with the last escapes of the abolition of the IMU on the first house, a problem that, as it has been faced by its government, has really thrown the taxpayers into chaos. We are not talking about peacemaking: by means of peacemaking we have reached the political murder of Silvio Berlusconi, that is, one of the Government's parties of broad understanding. In short, your government has not relaunched the economic cycle, it has not changed the direction of Europe, it has not pacified anything. So why should he do that now, with a numerically less strong and more politically characterized majority? Why, where the Government of broad understanding has failed, should the majority of Renzi-Giovanardi succeed? You say why it is a more cohesive majority. It will be true, perhaps you are right, perhaps we will find that Renzi is compatible with Giovanardi, that the one who broke D'Alema in the party will rule in the coming months with the relics of the first Republic, who arrived in Parliament well before D'Alema. We'll see. Only while we do these experiments, the country suffers and the protest wave grows. If I had been in you today I would not have made a 40-page speech, I would have limited myself to 4-5 pages with one or two programmatic points, swearing that I would have made them in a few months. But for her the strategic imperative is to last; to last at the expense of everything and everyone. Except out of the ivory towers of institutions society boils. To read the polls, four months ago 30% of Italians wanted to return to new elections while 70% did not; now the situation has turned upside down: 68 percent want to return to the polls, 32 percent not. Your government's rating fell to 23 percent. That is, you have the confidence of not even one in four Italians; if you take a walk in the squares of middle Italy you will encounter it personally. She, on the other hand, gave herself a program of one or two years, but the game is played in two months; think. Do you really think that a Parliament delegitized by the decision of the Council can make reforms that legitimate parliaments have not been able to do for forty years? I don't think so. I believe that this Parliament must speed up, in two months, a new majority electoral law with a single turn. Personally, I think we can also start with Mattarellum, and then re-legitimize ourselves with new elections; but this is a task, if I understand correctly, from which your reference shareholder has cut you off. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tronti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u20	Mr President, President Letta, I think that with the new beginning the definitions given to your Government at the time of its birth should be closed: Government of necessity, Government of emergency, Government of service. No, no more: this is a political government, with a political majority, incardinated on three lines of parliamentary consensus of center-left, center-right and new centre-right. There must be continuity with the recent past majority: on the part of the Government, with a stronger and stronger capacity for decision and, on the part of Parliament, with a more sober representation of interests and with the renunciation of ultimative demands. It is a government with a maturity, which must bring to fruition two fundamental points: recovery and reforms. I would like to comment on this last point. I would call the current government a minicostituente. It is not an integral constituent, because it is not a question of revising the overall Charter and because it has not been requested and it has not been granted a popular legitimacy for such a task. I mean that there is no question of the form of State and the same form of Government can have, in the given conditions, an adjustment and not a upheaval. I would like the same electoral law to remain in the immediate vicinity of the speech on constitutional reforms. Colleagues, it is not true that institutional reforms have not been made in this country. Unfortunately, they have been carried out as a trailer for tampering with electoral laws. It is the majoritarian of personalized coalition that has given us this type of bipolarism sick, depressed, every day feverish. The reason is that the various con laws imposed coalitions capable of winning the elections but unable to govern the country. I have no proportional nostalgies, but when I hear the proportional definition of a superporcellum - translated into Italian: a superporcata - I would invite you to measure the words and recommend readings on the recent history of those "thirty glorious years" of the Italian Republic, followed by the post-war period. So, I'm not prejudiced against a bipolar setup, but I would like a bipolarism built, designed and thought: politically thought. As long as we remain in the wake of a parliamentary republic, bipolarism itself must be a parliamentary bipolarism, I would say organized and not personalized. Between the reform of the electoral law and the reform of the institutions - this is the essential point, of which I want to stress the importance - there is an issue of pressing topicality and inescapableness: it is called the self-form of politics, and it concerns not only the costs, numbers, the seats, but the way to make politics, it engages the political custom and it concerns the selection and the formation of the political class. Mr Grasso, thinking about this speech, it occurred to me that perhaps we should find a formal forum to educate this subject and then give it a broader, civil and cultural reflection.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u21	Please conclude, Senator Tronti.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u22	TRONTI (PD). Yes, Mr. President. When the great parties collapsed and representative democracy was bypassed by forms of immediate democracy, the virtuous filter, which selects the transition from social to political, was no longer found: this is a huge problem, which I do not see on the agenda and which I would like to see present in the current debate. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the ……]] Mr President, I would ask you to be able to deliver the full text of my speech, so that it can be published in the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u23	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u24	Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council has told us that it has broken down, but in light athletics we have a second start when the first has not been corrected: we have left before, or we have left badly, and therefore we must leave again. But you know that, according to the rules of light athletics, at the second incorrect start there is disqualification. I say this to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but I would also like to ask you a question: do you know what a kilo of bread costs? In our land, in Lunigiana, in Tuscany, a kilo of bread costs around two euros, in Milan and in Lombardy costs about three and a half euros, while in Naples it costs about one and a half euros. This is an important figure, and I want to tell you a meeting about it. Last Monday, I met an elderly woman from my Lunigiana, the Palmira, who was with a friend of hers, the Benita. Obviously the names, Palmira and Benita, are a sort of political place name, which indicate the membership of two different political cultures, but united by a single difficulty: that of arriving at the end of the month, because of an income of little more than 400 euros per month. Of course, I asked Palmira if she'd gone to the primary, and she said, Are you crazy to think of spending two euros? You know what I'm doing with two euros? I buy us a kilo of bread and I eat ten to eleven days. Then Benita, who has a cow (and sometimes she also gives me some milk) and owns chickens (and sometimes she gives me some eggs) told me that dry bread soaks it in milk, and so she can eat, that does not arrive at the end of the month, that she needs the vegetable garden and peasant solidarity. Continuing to talk to them, I started to talk about politics as well. These two women were actually prepared from the political point of view and looked with nostalgia not at the times of Togliatti or Berlinguer, or Benito Mussolini, but at the times when Italy was doing well, in the eighties, at the times when Bettino Craxi was there, when there were reformists in the government of the country, in which Italy was in a Mediterranean-driven Europe, not in Baltic traction: what are we doing with the Baltic? It is obvious that Germany had every interest in having the dominion of the Baltic to conquer, not with tanks, but worse, with finance and with the economy, Italy, thanks also to those politicians like Bersani and Renzi, who before presenting themselves to their electorate have come to their knees in front of this Merkel, which also the two peasants of course have mentioned. These women carry on a cultural heritage, so they can take away the evil eye. Well, I believe, Mr President, that you must visit these two women, because among the justiceists who are supporting her, you look at how many dark faces and full of resentment. [[Applause from Senators Di Giacomo and D'Anna. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u25	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u26	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Socialists strongly vote for you and your Government, not least because the word I have heard most in your report is 'discontinuity'. Discontinuity means daring more. You have a narrower, smaller majority today, but you can have a much stronger government if you want to. I also respond to Senator Minzolini who forgets - even if our memory is too labile: but the fact is too big to be forgotten - that the force to which he belongs has governed Italy, for ten of the last twelve years, and today it is possible to remember that if there is a different majority this majority can have aspirations and dare much more. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] The big issues you have before you, and with you your government, are two, not improved compared to last spring, and both respond to the principle that stability cannot mean absolutely flat calm. The first question concerns the economy, and it definitely involves economic measures that are more incisive, the first to create more wealth, the second to redistribute in a fairer way the wealth that there is and what there can be. We suggested, ten days ago, a piggy bank and the ways to fill it: tax more and better gambling - from which can come seven billion euros to be allocated to this rebalancing - and an asset on the great riches, to lower the tax burden on families with medium-low income. Then there is a second question, perhaps more dramatic than the first: the crisis of the middle class and the breaking of the third-party institutions provokes a terrible aphasia of social networks. CENSIS reminded us of this a few days ago, but those who live in Italy of bars and markets realize it before the CENSIS investigations: or we manage to weave a more robust social and institutional network, that gives a sense of march to the nation and the state, or otherwise, increasingly radicalizing the political confrontation and with it the social confrontation, we risk very much. The word 'just' must be said only, Mr President, when we talk about tolerance: tolerance is enough. I have respect for those who sit in this Chamber, but I have no respect for those who make subversive appeals, and there are those outside of here who make subversive appeals, incites to break the relationship of fidelity with the State, and for these people, who have a name and surname, still applies today Article 266 of the penal code [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Alicata.]] I am surprised that there has not yet been a magistrate who has considered it his duty to intervene. I am surprised that the Minister of the Interior has not even spoken in front of the words of those who say: In 1921 Mussolini Benito in Milan, when his first patrol was elected to the Italian Parliament, the same identical words (if he were still alive, he could consider it plagiarism) used by Mussolini Benito in Milan. If the Minister of the Interior does not intervene in these cases, in the face of very terrible conditions, and does not feel the need, and none of us does, to tighten to beat populisms, then the audience of democratic participation risks impoverishing and impoverishing also the decisive and resolute appeal to unity and to the new mission for Italy that you have directed to this Chamber. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PI, SCMpI and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u28	Mr President, Mr Letta, I have listened carefully to your report. We in the New Right Center believe that this transition to the Chambers, however institutionally due, affects little on the reasons for our choice. On October 2, we already expressed our confidence to the Government that she presides over and despite the fact that from that date there were many events, many events (I remember the dissolution of the People of Freedom and the consequent formation of Forza Italia and Nuovo CentroDestra, the decadence as Senator of Berlusconi, the division of Civic Choice, the election of Matteo Renzi as Secretary of the Democratic Party and Matteo Salvini as Secretary of the League), we believe that they have had little impact on the estate and on the possibilities and potential that this Government has to go on. We have recorded a new fact: both in the Government and in the parties a generation of young people is being formed, of forty-year-olds that gives us much hope for our future. We believe that your Government, President Letta, must continue the work begun, but at the same time we believe that the time has come to take a shot, to give a strong acceleration to the action of government, also strong of a new majority that, although less wide, is certainly more cohesive and made up of parliamentarians willing to commit, to make sacrifices, to work with you in the interests of Italy and the Italians. It is clear that this conviction is not based on the desire to make the Government last, as you said, at all costs, but on the awareness that only if these reasonings are produced do they have an acceptable logic. The legitimacy of this Government, President Letta, will not be related only to the political support that comes from a new majority, certainly in some ways stronger - as I said - than the previous one, but rather to your ability to give immediate and necessary answers to prevent the social discomfort that is growing from general outbreaks of popular insuffering, ready to flare up dangerously, also because of people blowing on the fire there is so much and comes from everywhere. If these promises were not to be fulfilled, it would be difficult to justify our choice of responsibility. So, we are convinced of the plan to sign a contract that will allow us to do those four-five things quickly, to achieve those few goals that secure our country, placing first the electoral law that must be hesitated in the shortest possible time...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u29	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u30	MANCUSE (NCD). President Grasso, I would like to address you: let us leave the electoral law to the Senate. [[Applause from the NCD, PI and SCMpI groups.]] I would also like to address my colleagues in the PD. We do not allow ourselves to be expropriated of this prerogative, not least because we do not need numbers in order to make an electoral law; we only need maximum political sharing. Let us then move forward with courage and conviction, ready for the sacrifice of an extraordinary commitment to get Italy out of the pitfalls of the crisis that strangles the economy. Let's think about young people, about work, about justice. We innovate methods, renew and simplify the functioning of the State, both in terms of costs and of relations between the various levels of institutional, political and social representation. I shall conclude, Mr President. We are not attached to certain issues such as the duration of the Government, the formulas, the zeroings, the fillings, which also have their importance. We want to live and not survive. The theme is another: the boat on which we boarded cannot only float at the mercy of the maroses who invest it and hoping that it will not sink; this boat must sail, and not on sight but rather with course, speed and goals clear and fixed. Only if we respect the journey times and follow the right course will we take our ship from the stormy sea to a safe landing place. Congratulations, President Letta. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u31	Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u32	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are the law enforcement agencies you were talking about without overtime, without petrol and without resources? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The ones you send to defend your economic interests in Val di Susa? To stock up without tools and resources? And you have the courage to applaud? No shame at all. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Between trust and mistrust, in seven months I believe you have beaten all historical records. A government shored day after day by the new political forces, because the word "new" is really wasted today. The only new thing we need is a new government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] That's all. Is it a government that stands for responsibility towards the country and its citizens? No, absolutely not. We've seen little of that. On the other hand, it has shown a great sense of responsibility, Mr Letta; perhaps, better to say a sense of belonging to banks, gaming dealers, big industrialists and that banking Europe in front of which you went to bow the day after your establishment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Not a tour of Italy that suffers, not between companies in crisis, workers in the Cassa Integrazione and desperate ready for suicide: no, on his first day he spent it in Berlin, bowing before the German chancellor Merkel. What has the government done in the first seven months? What are we gonna remember for? For attacking the Constitution? For forming groups of wise men, wise men and wise men? For giving 98 billion to the gaming dealers? Yeah, we'll remember that. For gifts to banks? For saving the Riva family? For changing the name of the IMU to IUC? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] For confirming the F-35 program? Or perhaps by the decree of the doing, that we might call "not to do"? What, like all the other decrees you have given birth in these months, is a decree of referrals; decrees used as Trojan horses to introduce rules otherwise not digestible; decrees used as an instrument to introduce a de facto monocameralism; decrees used to postpone, postpone and postpone. In the TV lounges you like the announcement policy. Citizens must know that almost all decrees contain references to other implementing decrees, in most cases never implemented. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Only 35% of the decrees approved so far are complete with the implementing rules necessary to make them effective. On the decree of the doing is reached even 85 percent of inoperability, cause decrees implementing missing. To make a clear mockery of citizens, let me give an example. Article 6 of the simplification bill has a title that is all a program: This title seems to suggest an immediate reduction of time and administrative burden on citizens and businesses. Instead, it states that the Government will adopt a regulation by 31 December 2015, i.e. in two years' time. I do not know if we will ever see the shadow of these rules, but surely the government will be another, not this, which has the written deadline on the label. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not to mention the promises made at the consultations and in the election campaign: reduction of labour costs, IRAP, no increase in VAT, aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, minimum wage, one million jobs... No, that was another one, but it's easy to confuse you lately. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). You with him! You're with the forks! MARTON (M5S). Bravo! AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me talk. Please, Senator Crimes, continue. CRIMI (M5S). The reason is soon said: he postpones, deludes himself, promises himself and as usual he does not maintain himself; a practice of which you are masters and of which he is master is his party, like all the others. But we also want to talk about something important, about the direct guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. Do you remember, ma'am, that guarantee fund? It is a fund that has existed for a long time, but neither you nor anyone who could before you have ever refinanced or advertised. That fund could breathe life into small and medium-sized enterprises. It is on that fund that we asked to be able to pay the surplus of our salary; not in the coffers of the party, as you do: we wanted to pour it into that fund. We had asked and obtained, with an amendment to the decree of doing, that in that fund a citizen or an association could freely pay. President, do you understand what we're talking about? Private citizens giving money to the state. We could pay money to the state to relaunch SMEs; it was enough to open an incoming chapter and it was not done. The deadline given in the amendment expired on 20 November and we cannot pay. In a few days we will have EUR 3 million available; EUR 3 million is the self-reduction of the salary that we implement, that we do not pour into the party's coffers, that adds to the million and a half already paid for the first three months and that we would like to give to help give support to small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We cannot do this because your Government has not made the implementing decree and has not opened the budget chapter in order to do so. In three days we will have these 3 million, see what we can do with it and it will be your fault if we cannot give it to small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We do not ask for money for marcettes like other parliamentarians do. We take our money and pour it into the state coffers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, we are talking about a government that has forecast for the next three years as much as 32.4 billion euros of new revenue, new and more taxes for families and businesses. Let us not hide behind empty words: there are those predictions. A government that lies to Europe climbing between false predictions of growth included in the document of economy and finance and false measures declared as approved but in reality still restrained by the hysterical decree of urgency. A continuous buffer and never a long-term vision. As far as the reforms are concerned, Mr President, you spoke of preference and the right to choose. Where were you in the last seven years, when we were discussing a popular initiative bill that provided for a very simple thing, the restoration of preference? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Where were you all clapping when it came to electoral law? [[Comments from the Government's desks]] In these seven years why haven't you restored your preference? Now we come to complain if the Constitutional Court tells us that this law is unconstitutional. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, on the great constitutional reforms that preceded us in the April consultations (I remember that you were standing before me), you stated that you wanted to offer the whole of Parliament certain instruments and times of constitutional reform. His words: "I will bind the life of my government to the success of the reform of politics" and in the reform included the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the birth of a Senate of the Regions instead of bicameralism, the abolition of the Provinces, the reform of Title V of the Constitution. Today we are still here to hear them indicate as promises. His intention, in reality, was turning into a real attack on the Constitution, with the constitution of the Committee to derogate from Article 138 which today, as we learn from his words, has been shipwrecked. We have opposed it in every way and today we know that it has been shipwrecked: we are delighted. Clearly, our battle has worked and that of all the citizens who have mobilized. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On electoral reform, Mr President, I would remind you that you have even managed to get your party to vote in dissension by itself. The famous Giachetti motion, with which one could abandon the Porcellum and return to the Mattarellum, had in favor only the votes of the 5 Star Movement but not those of its party. On TV, however, she lied resoundingly, saying that her party has always been in favour of Mattarellum.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u33	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u34	CRIMI (M5S). I'll finish. The recent judgment of the Constitutional Court reports justice, late, but reports justice. By the way, thank you for the great figure you've made us do all over the world. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The last gem, President, and I really close. You talk about abolishing public funding directed at parties: apart from the fact that it is not abolition, but yet another change of name, in the title of the measure you also had the courage to write the abolition of public funding to parties. But public funding for parties had already been abolished in a referendum, so it must already be so. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] For twenty years you have told us that this funding had been abolished and that it was only about reimbursements for electoral expenses, whereas it was actually public funding for the parties. Today we heard her say that no one has to stay behind. Mr President, I would like to say one more thing to you: no one must remain in this Parliament. Everyone at home, everyone at home! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] MIRABELLI (PD). You're in charge! AIROLA (M5S). I'm ready! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u35	Please, colleagues, shut up.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u36	Senator Alberti Casellati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u37	Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Senators, your Government, President Letta, has presented itself to Italy as an opportunity to put an end to the serious and urgent problems of the country. Its government has presented itself as the best possible expression of a political executive, the result of an electoral competition that has not been able to decree winners and losers and that has imposed a path of necessary collaboration between political forces. We have collaborated loyally, by agreeing on a series of measures necessary for the recovery of the economy, but you have failed the pacts. You have remained deaf to all the demands arising from the social and economic fabric of the country. You have finally failed your date with Italy. In recent months the government has burdened citizens with the increase in taxes, the increase in excise duties on petrol, the increase in VAT; unemployment has increased exponentially. On the other hand, consumption collapsed; the building market collapsed, the car market collapsed and so on: a real catastrophe for Italians, who find themselves paying, in 2014, a billion more taxes. I do not say that, says the Italian General Confederation of Crafts (CGIA) of Mestre. You have tried to confuse ideas by inventing strange, different, comic book names - TRISE, TARI, TASI, IUC - but they have only one substance: taxes, taxes and more taxes! The plastic projection of this serious discomfort lies in the manifestation of the "forcone," which is likely to extend to all social categories. What then, President Letta, about the so-called pacification? For a political-electoral gain you have torn all the principles, all the rules and the right to guillotine the leader of the center-right. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] President Letta, step back: record the deep malaise widespread in our country. You see, in the face of unbearable cuts to the detriment of citizens, the lean consolation could have been that these harassment could have led to a reduction in public debt; but that is not the case: taxes have increased and public debt as well, and today you are presenting yourself with the same program as last April, with the same baggage of proposals that have been a sort of void to lose. But how do you think Italians can still believe in you? Today we have a great opportunity - he said earlier in his speech - the European Semester. Italy can and must aim for growth, individual policies, labour policies, but it cannot do so with this majority and cannot do so with these conditions of instability, and moreover with a Minister of the Economy who one day proposes a measure that denies the next day, an Economic Minister to whom the accounts never return, except to distribute 1.8 billion funds in rain for propaganda and electoral interventions, which bring nothing, no benefit to the people. But then, Mr President, what is the point of keeping a politically failed legislature alive? The recent polls and people's opinion, which I have gathered directly in recent weeks, show a widespread disorientation and a substantial misunderstanding of the current passage of our policy. You said yours isn't a government at all costs. Well, he should have said more correctly that it was a government that cost a lot: it cost many tears to the Italians. Public opinion has given a key to a negative reading of the concept, in itself undoubtedly positive, of opportunities: that opportunity that your Government has had to be able to dissolve some of the nodal points of the national economy, but that you have frustrated. Take note of this, Mr President, because your request to remain in this Government is lived by the people and by us as a deleterious maneuver of political opportunism. What the country needs is an understanding of a new electoral law that guarantees a true bipolarism: a law to be enacted in a few days. Then I appeal to you, President Letta: to put the Italians in a position to take back the greatest good, the prerogative of the free peoples, which is the right to freely choose their own future, exercising that right of vote which is the essential foundation of every democracy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Micheloni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u39	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind myself first of all that since 2006, the senators of the Foreign College of the Centre-Left have never missed a single vote in their Government. We were 4 and today we are 6 senators who have the same loyalty to this Government, even if we are an expression of different political forces. As you well know, dear President, pallarism was never decisive for the Prodi Government in the 2006-2008 season, but the senators of the center-left were. I speak, dear President, so that this loyalty of ours may be respected. I shall briefly touch on a few issues, but they are fundamental. Italian workers emigrated to yards, mines, factories in Northern Europe or other continents, with their sacrifices they supported the Italian economic miracle; with their remittances they balanced the balance of payments of Italy for decades; with their savings they built their dream home in the South, the Centre and the North. Remember, friends of the League, with what resources our regions and our regions have developed. Today this empty house, where they thought they were spending their old age, they use it, when it's okay, one month a year. When it is considered second home - and is considered as second home - it is taxed at most with the loads for the waste paid for one year, even if used for a single month. Dear President, this is a real social problem, if you think that many of our immigrants, such as pensioners living in Germany with EUR 800 or 900 per month, receive IMU bills from EUR 1,600 to EUR 2,000. This situation is not acceptable. We ask you, Mr President, to decide that migrant homes should be considered and taxed as the first home. This is an essential point for us. It was not possible to solve the problem in the law of stability. Make sure it's resolved in the IMU decree, under discussion these days in the Senate. Dear President, as far as the second point is concerned, we are witnessing the destructuration of our diplomatic consular network by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in recent months. Two visions of reform clash: that of the Administration, covered by the Government, which aims to change everything, provided that the corporate interests of Italian diplomacy are not touched; and the political vision, which has a perspective not of conservation, but of modernization of the network, which wants to respond to the real needs of the Italian economy and the Italians resident abroad, without increasing the expenses...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u40	Senator Micheloni, please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u41	MICHELONI (PD). Mr President, allow me more time on this subject, which concerns a few million Italians around the world. As I said, without increasing expenditure, rather by producing economies, as indicated by the revision of expenditure. We simply ask for less diplomacy and more services and in the next few days we will present a motion. President, we ask you to stop the self-harm in place, which affects the interests of the country in relaunching the economy and work in Italy as well. These and other measures, such as the almost zeroing of resources for the diffusion of Italian language and culture in the world, are perceived by our communities abroad as an abandonment of that Italianity that develops in the world; this hurts both the memory of our parents, and the cultural and affective bond that our children have towards Italy and made in Italy. But the material damages that result do not concern Italians abroad, but Italy, because it is not, ours, a rearguard battle for migrants, but a commitment to build an Italy system in the world, for the good of Italy. Let me give you a few examples and I will conclude, Mr President; I would ask you for a moment of patience. We have not managed to stop, in the decree of doing, Article 55, by virtue of which in 2014 the Italian tourist offer in countries not belonging to the European Union (such as Australia, the United States, Switzerland) will suffer an increase in costs from 15 to 25%, in favor of countries like France, Spain and Portugal, because we have abolished the refund of VAT to tourism agencies outside the European Union, while our competitors do. I could talk about many other issues, about the tax agreement with Switzerland, about the absurd decisions of the ICE to reopen a seat in Zurich, without understanding the usefulness of these things. We also have the problem of new mobility, which is becoming a new wave of migration. The few things I have been able to say here are fundamental issues for us, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us be able to support you in a convincing way even in the forthcoming confidences, despite the strange and superficial reflections of the wise men on institutional reforms (we shall talk about this at the time). We want to continue to be loyal to you, to your Government, to Italians abroad and to Italy. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups and Senator Longo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Susta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u43	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Senators, it would be a serious mistake if the palace were to close in the face of the malaise that is widespread among those most exposed to the crisis. It would be a demonstration not only of insensitivity, but of real unawareness of the real, if we reduced the protest spread in the country not to the expression of a new great social issue, what it is, but only to a mere question of public order. That is not the case, and you can see full awareness of it from your speech. What is happening around us requires courageous initiatives and strong discontinuities from the very recent past; a new government pact that is based in that coalition contract that President Monti and Chosen Civics have been asking for months, among political forces that say they share a strongly reformist approach, to engage the recovery and to push other European countries towards the construction of an increasingly Community Europe, founded on the four units still too weak that you recall today. A government that has freed itself from populist drifts, that have worn out and frustrated the potential of the great agreements, must today and without any justification give the answers that the country expects and that can no longer recall generic commitments with fake objectives and fake times. Three are the great emergencies on which this majority can and must find an effective understanding, whose pursuit is the reason why today Civic Choice will vote for trust. The first is the reform of politics and institutions. It is true: institutional reforms do not eat, but a state that does not work or works badly eats everything. It is necessary to overcome the perfect bicameralism, without reducing the Upper House to a mere Chamber of Autonomouss; the reduction of the number of parliamentarians; the reduction of public funding and the law on parties; a new electoral law that guarantees representation and governability, without shirts of force that force the political forces to unnatural appearances (objective that, for example, could be guaranteed by a law proportional to the majority coalition or double turn in case of failure to reach the threshold). They are reforms that can be set up immediately and approved in the coming months, only that there is political will, and that perhaps they could already be at a very advanced stage, if we had not given in to a desire to change the Constitution too complex, with procedures too articulated. But since the political will must exist, otherwise, at least for what concerns us, what begins today could end very soon, we do not see why transfer the electoral law to the House, since the Senate will have to return anyway and here are the most difficult conditions for its approval. [[Applause from the SCMpI Group and Senator Albertini.]] It is no longer time for everlasting election campaigns; it is no longer time for propaganda initiatives. We measure our cohesion on the great issues that affect the country where it is most difficult. The second emergency is very linked to the first and concerns the relationship between the central state, the regions and the autonomous, appropriately recalled in his speech. Mr President, this messy federalism must be thoroughly corrected, with the penalty of uncontrolled spending and the death of those presidios of democracy which are the local self-governments. And we must avoid that the bill on the emptying of the competences of the Provinces is an opportunity to raise irrationally the metropolitan cities: on this road we will not be there. Furthermore, we must start by asking ourselves whether these regions should not be adapted to the effectiveness and efficiency that requires a modern system that overcomes the current fragmentation of legislative competence. Reordering the autonomy in the logic of their valorization can and must and, at the same time as they reorder, must proceed, consequently, to the amalgamation and the abolition of many peripheral offices of the State. We have not so far devoted the same severe attention to the central machine as we have devoted to local autonomy. The third question, which is certainly not of importance, concerns the most urgent reforms to boost competitiveness, without which it is a deception to talk about the revision of expenditure, the reduction of the tax burden and the revival of employment. It is pathetic that those who have ruled for eight of the last eleven years this country, which has minimized the crisis with the rhetoric of full restaurants, today do not know that to indicate as the only responsible of the gap that exists between Italy and other European countries, the Community institutions, the Chancellor Merkel, the ancient enemy, the German barbarian, that, among other things, remains the main importer of our goods. This is the right that has long ruled the country and that flees in the face of its own responsibilities. We must certainly not bend to the financial liberalism that triggered the crisis today, but the answer cannot be the return to protectionism and state interventionism in vogue in the first Republic, nor to a mercantile neo-protectionism, which would kill even more our manufacturing that on export is founding its survival, and that is precisely while in the world, after eight years of impasse, multilateralism takes breath in trade relations, as the WTO summit demonstrated last week. It is not the policy that can create jobs. But it is the policy that can favour Italian and foreign investments if liberalize, privatise, reform the labour market and local public services, redefines the employment relations, accepting to clash with the many oligopolies and monopolies that still inges the economy of our country, in the shade of which are nested small and large castes that are to be demolished. Mr President, an ancient golden rule, very popular, says: Don't do to others what you don't want to do to you. You, us, this majority, could thus adapt it to the primary need not to have passed in vain on the benches of Parliament in this seventeenth legislature: We do not let others in a few months' time do what we can already do today and that we should have done yesterday. Altiero Spinelli said - it is a phrase contained in a book by one of my former colleagues and Members of the European Parliament (of which you, Mr President, wrote a beautiful and very topical preface) - that a politician must be judged by how he knows how to act in a time without hope. Mr President, today, at this time when, if hope is not lost, there is certainly a great deal of distress, you and all those, including us, who express their trust, are subjected to this judgment. It's not an easy test. What we will agree and approve in the next few days will not be decisive, but, aware how we are that there are no new men of Providence nor demiurges with the magic wand, we and you have the duty to avoid sinking into the swamp of resignation and sterile survival. We must courageously and quickly pursue the goals we are giving ourselves so that we can then put ourselves back to the judgment of the sovereign people. This is the salt of democracy, and we must not allow it to be sacrificed on the altar to be miserable in part. [[Applause from the SCMp, PD and PI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u45	Mr President, we are aware of the seriousness of the economic and social situation and of the great breakdown that has developed between institutions and society, as you yourself have pointed out. We have declined this gravity with the numbers and themes we all know, and this is even more true of our South, where in a few years the number of poor has grown by 70% and GDP has fallen by as much as 10%. We can only share your analysis and the policy points you have set out; we can only share the view that it is absolutely essential to reduce public debt, to regain competitiveness in order to reduce the tax burden on households and businesses. In order to do this, there is no doubt that the weight of the State must be reduced first and foremost in all its various forms, including the weight of politics. To do all this you need to have courage and determination and there is little time. You spoke, Mr Letta, of selective attention to the Mezzogiorno; but, dear President, selective attention is not enough. There is a need for a strategic plan for the Mezzogiorno; we must start from the question of the Mezzogiorno. There is a need for urgent measures to promote social inclusion and to put an end to growing poverty; large investments in large and small infrastructures are needed because that is the only way to develop business, agriculture and tourism. Mr President, it is a matter of giving back to some millions of Italian citizens the fullness of citizenship, the right to participation, mobility and the use of services. So, dear President, I hope that this Government will have the courage and determination to build not only a united Europe, but above all a truly united Italy, and this, in our opinion, is the great bet of its Government. We are at a turning point, Mr President: you must decide whether or not to move on to history; whether to move on to the history of this nation in order to have finally faced with courage the problem of the North-South gap, the problem of Italy at two speeds. You must have the courage to put at the centre of your political action what is the real big problem, the lack of development of the entire nation. It is in the name of this hope that we will confirm our trust in your government tonight. [[Applause from the LAG and NCD groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u46	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we would like to make sure that you and your Government are aware of the sensitivity of the institutional and social moment that the country is experiencing at this very moment in history. Motions of irresponsibly and artfully fomented also by many who sit in our Palaces together with epochal changes in the representative bodies photograph a reality within which the citizen finds himself disoriented, disoriented, intimidated and - why not? - I'm disappointed. If we add to all this the uncertainty of the international framework, we can rightly say that we have outlined a framework whose borders have the hard and slim face of drama. Yes, Mr President, because it is dramatic for a young man not to find work, and even more dramatic for a young man living in the South of our country. Just as it's dramatic to lose your job, and it doesn't matter if you lose it at 30, 40, or 50. Dramatic is dealing with our bureaucracy; it is dramatic to have a deaf banking system to the needs of citizens and businesses. And dramatic is still not having legal certainty. But even more unbearable, in this scenario, the privileges appear, wherever they nest. In one word, Mr President, living has become dramatically difficult today. If we faced today's vote of confidence by escaping and not having the drama of this picture, we would do a bad job and would not do a good service to the country. Starting and working in this context, the answers that your Government must commit itself to giving must be necessarily strong, effective, responsible and fair answers. At a time of scarce resources we know that your work will be particularly difficult. The Group for Italy feels a strong responsibility to help the efforts that you intend to put in the field and in this spirit we allow ourselves to point out a few significant priorities. If, as our Constitution says, the country is founded on work, it is to it that we must devote our greatest attention. How? For example, by deburring the innumerable administrative procedures that hinder companies: it costs nothing and restores competitive capacity to the production system. We must bring down, bring down, finally, Mr President, this damned tax wedge, by recovering resources from a serious (underline: serious), I would say serious and credible disposal of public goods, assets that do not fall within the state prerogatives and rationalization of all that infinite web of companies and agencies within which waste, evil and electoral consent are lurking. Moreover, a serious reform of work is needed and with it the abolition of the Cassa Integrazione, which defends and perpetuates jobs of unproductive companies that are on the shoulders of the taxpayer citizen, instead activating unemployment benefits, as happens in all countries of the world. It is necessary to recall and encourage the banking system to return to being a flywheel and part of initiatives, assuming part of that risk of enterprise that is and must be a peculiarity of its mission. Banks cannot and must not be more spectators of the entrepreneurial decadence of our country: they must be impulse, bet and, why not, hope. Finally, Mr President, I do not want to escape the role of politics and institutional reforms, which I believe are more of a concern to the Palace than to the electoral citizen. I confess that I have no great admiration for the populist drifts that, on the fashion of the moment, animate the interventions of those who, net of their abilities, now hold important positions in the parties and institutions. Politics, at least as I mean it, is above all head, ideas, project; it is not and cannot be belly, bile, vengeance. I am therefore speaking as a precarious person, given the absurd assumption that this branch of Parliament is closed down. Do we need to remember a reform of the recent past, carried out on the wave of the disastrous Legist populism that has approved that unlikely federalist model of which we pay the most salty costs today? Need it? I think so. I should like to conclude, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, by hoping that the confidence that we, together with my Group, will be voting on you will also be able to take away the syndrome of Hamelin's piper, in which the political leaders of our country have been falling for too long. They had to take the rats to the river and instead they took the children to the caves. They had to get us out of the past, and instead they took away our future. That, Mr President, is the policy on populism and we can look to the future with confidence. [[Applause from the PI Group and Senator Giannini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanièce. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u49	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, I listened carefully to your speech, appreciating the effort you and your Government are making to implement an ambitious but difficult programme for the results achieved but which, as we have seen over the last few months, still has a major and main objective, which is the emergency of work and unemployment. As for the reality that I represent, that of the Autonomous Region of Valle d'Aosta-Vallée d'Aoste, I do not hide my concern, linked to the difficulties of the path of a package of implementing rules still firm and blocked, to some articles on the law of stability penalising my Region and, not least, to still critical relations between the regional administration and the State Reasoning on interpretations of financial norms for us absolutely negative. And here the concept difficult to pass and to share, both at technical and political level, is that even between Regions and Autonomous Provinces there are different and non-uniformable systems between them. However, I am grateful to you, Mr President-in-Office, for your sensitivity to special autonomy and to the Valle d'Aosta. Recently, in fact, he had the amiability to receive our small delegation, which expressed to him what are the urgency and the concerns. Just as we are grateful to Minister Franceschini for the attention he is giving us. I hope, therefore (and I conclude this brief speech) that the new beginning of this Government, as you said, will lead to those concrete answers that will allow us to avoid breaking that fragile financial balance that regulates the ever more problematic and difficult life of a territory totally mountainous like my Valle d'Aosta. So, we wait confidently. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u50	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u51	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Senators, I would like to address the President-in-Office of the Council to say that I have listened carefully to his report, as always. On the basis of some considerations that I will make, I want to tell you why we in the Left Ecology and Freedom will not vote for trust in your Government. We will not do so because we consider the solutions that you are proposing to us today to be inadequate compared to the problems of the country, which seem to us, apart from some slogans, a continuation of the existing one and which, in our opinion, are lacking the momentum that would be needed instead. We are very concerned about the social and political climate in the country. The deep dissatisfaction with twenty years of bad policies has now emerged all together. The desperation of a country devastated by uncritical adherence to liberal policies is now before everyone's eyes. A country that has seen its productive fabric consume and that has seen the best part of its young generations forced to emigrate or surrender to a hopeless future. A country, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in which we fear that the optimism of the will to get out of the crisis will be confronted with the pessimism of reason, with a condition of ever greater suffering. We are very concerned, because the mass indignation towards a moral degradation repeated for too long is the perfect ground for very dangerous simplifications, especially when combining social crisis and loss of credibility of politics, in a time, moreover, in which every habit has been lost to the fatigue of a complex thought and even the same great democratic opportunities offered by the network unfortunately become, at times, real places of raids for old and new black block keyboards (let's call them so). Well, in a country like this, there is too much risk of drifting already seen too many times in our history. The generalized anger of this season tends to put everything on the same level, confusing those who have produced the crisis with those who have tried in all these years to bring forward ideas different from those of the unique thought. In this context it is all too easy to play with despair, to draw up black lists of abusers, to imagine marches on Rome that we would make a very serious mistake to underestimate. We have already seen all this and it is for these reasons that we are very concerned about the irresponsible, even subversive appeals, that I have seen in these days - for example yesterday - do to the police, to which I would like to say, with the great respect that is owed to all those who carry out difficult and poorly paid jobs, that the helmet is always removed or never removed! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups and Senator Dalla Zuanna]] And in any case, this Republican Parliament would do well to impose on that helmet, as in the more mature and more serious democracies of ours, an identification number. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Buemi and Campanella.]] And again, we are very concerned about the statements, even these irresponsible ones, of some former Minister of the Republic, who, after having offered us for decades failed economic recipes, after having denied together with his head the crisis in the eyes of the country, today seeks a new virginity, riding the demagogic vulgate of the illegitimate Parliament! What is all this, if not a phenomenon very similar to what Antonio Gramsci had understood long before others and that he had called subversivism of the ruling classes? But if these are the risks that our country faces today, how do we get out of this difficulty? How do Republican institutions effectively defend themselves and allow them to regain lost credibility? How do we oppose chaos? Do you really believe, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that small large-scale arrangements are sufficient to deal with a historic transition like this, to democratically guarantee the transition, probably, from the second to the third Republic? How do you restore dignity to the Republican Parliament, which we must always consider an indispensable common good? Politicisms, tactics, the terrain of politics, shortness of breath are no longer enough. Politics has two ways to try to give an answer, but the first - that is, the castle, the desperate defense of the existing, the image of the besieged fort that tries to resist, closed in the sidereal separation with the living body of the country - not only does it not suffice, but it feeds the worst impulses. On the other hand, without delay, we must take the second path, the only one capable of restoring to politics the authority lost. That is to say, a radical reformist action is needed: I do not happen to draw these two words together, at this historic stage only seemingly different. A radical reformist action, I said, finally capable of countering and tackling those great economic powers that are the main ones responsible for the crisis and that for too long have been instead safeguarded by political power. That is why today in Italy it would really need a great operation of redistribution of income, attacking that poverty (we saw the data this morning, those on childhood, in all their drama) that invades all statistics and that affects, above all, the young and very young generations. It is for these reasons that, for example, some military spending should be cut to finance school, university, research instead! That is why a genuine, at least experimental, form of citizenship income should be introduced without delay, and that is still why capital taxation should be introduced. That is why, in the end, we should rethink everything (and I say this to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as a convinced Europeanist enemy of populism!) European parameters and constraints. There is a need for reform which also involves the institutions: certainly reducing the number of parliamentarians, certainly overcoming the perfect bicameralism, certainly finally abandoning (better late than never) every desire to change the Constitution through the amendment of Article 138 (you will give us notice that we have never stopped saying so in all these months), but also working immediately - now! Now! - and not at the end of this process of constitutional reform, to a new electoral law finally able to restore credibility to our institutions. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Volpi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u53	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you, and it is the only one I will say to you: that I have waited, in order to come to this House, for the North League movement to carry out its primary functions. I can tell you that from the primary ones (of course less advertised than others) a secretary has come out indicated that he is Matteo Salvini and that we will continue as before to be loyal opponents, even if now as you know, the way of the opposition is like that of Damascus: it is filling as piazza del Duomo on Saturday afternoon (but that can only please us). I would also ask you to help us understand what your real majority and your party will do; just see what happened on the electoral law. And I also send a message of great closeness and solidarity to President Finocchiaro that yesterday he had so firmly expressed himself that the electoral law remained in the Senate, but something has changed in the party and it seems to me that President Zanda is already - don't be offended - on the attention to the new secretary. This is not so much to say what you can do, but because I think that you have two thoughts, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, about this. You are old enough in politics (I am too), but I would add that the new secretary Renzi is also about twenty years old that is on the square, more or less like Berlusconi. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Campanella.]] I say that to get her out of the embarrassment, because you can't say it. I will tell you that I have heard your speech this morning and this afternoon, I have also heard the optimism that expresses some of your ministers, in my opinion a little visionary, and please do not answer me to go to New York to see the writings that pass on the palaces, because I do not think those out there have the opportunity to go and see it. But one thing that has left me truly amazed and perplexed (and now I am moving to a real concern) is what I heard yesterday from one of your Undersecretaries. I was in the car on the usual way to the airport, in the middle of a Lombard tail, and I heard one of his Undersecretarys who said, compared to the "forcone" movement: I don't understand why they protest. I believe that this is a problem, I believe that this is a political obscenity, because if a member of the government does not understand why there is that protest, I believe that the problem is there. If you will allow me, I will politely tell you, without wanting to bore you, what I think is the reason why these people are protesting; and it is clear that we do not share violence, in fact perhaps if there were more attention to the parliamentary opposition there would be no such situations. Mr President, he does not mention us in his speeches among the populists (he did so as early as this morning), because his intellectual honesty must lead us to acknowledge that we have already set ourselves in an extremely critical position on Europe and the euro from the outset. We are not the ones who use contingency today to express a political position, but this is the Europe of wage dumping. What you have seen in protests is a consequence of the fact that there are people in Europe who inevitably steal work from others because they are now playing down on their salaries. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Caritas queues have stretched. I can't say it's his fault, but there's definitely no solution. And the people who line up at Caritas, we can't say we're gonna solve the problems in 2015! This is the country where members of law enforcement and health care - then I too come to greet her before going out, as I always do [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] - in most cases they receive lower salaries than those of those who in many buildings stamp and then walk. I believe that today the taboo of public work should be dropped. In countries in crisis, public sector salaries have been cut by up to 30%: I do not say that this should be achieved, but a reflection is needed. Let's drop this taboo. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group),]] because the country is no longer able to maintain 6 million public workers at these levels. That is my opinion; you will of course be against it. There is another passage: credit. We don't say it, Bankitalia said it yesterday: there is no credit for the company. But the banks that have been helped and that we continue to help, is it possible that they are not able to grant credit? Perhaps it is necessary to reflect on the aid we have given to understand if it is not appropriate that that money - which is our money, it is the money of the citizens - falls in different terms than the responsibilities of the governance of those banks. Purchasing power, another figure not mine, has decreased by almost 10%. President of the Council, Mr Letta, have you noticed that the most frequently used banknote denomination in bars and shops is no longer EUR 5 or EUR 10, but EUR 20? Have you noticed that the 20 euro cut has now become the current currency, with a 10% fall in purchasing power? Another important thing: why are they protesting? Who are they? In the Brenner last week there were no leftist or autonomous exversors: there was Coldiretti, the one - you will remember it as I do - who once in this Parliament had some ten representatives sitting at the centre of the Chamber. Some of them I know personally, as I think you do. Well, they were protesting against the European rules that allow ham and non-Italian meat to arrive in Italy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On that occasion there was a Minister who had courage, and we recognized him; the young Minister of Agriculture went to the Brenner. And I didn't understand why you, President Letta, didn't defend her when she was attacked by the usual strong powers as you defended your Excellency Chancellors for your affairs. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] He was the only Minister who had the courage to say: these are people who work. On the other hand, of the 41% of young unemployed people, I would like to say to you that it is my belief that there are also many young people in the South who do not want to get down on their knees before a city councilman, provincial or regional to have a place among socially useful workers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That's the truth! And in Parliament everyone should say with pride that there are people in the South who want to get out of certain situations. But this is also not a solution. Those who have been massacred by the Fornero reform are angry. It is news today, announced by Minister Fassina, that another 20,000 exodus have been settled: and the others who are at home without pension, nor salary how do we fix them? Shall we send them to read the writings in New York? They get angry when Equitalia goes to ask the widow of one of the many entrepreneurs who committed suicide, and we know why they committed suicide. They are not evaders and went before Equitalia to say: I unfortunately do not have the money because I prefer to pay the salary to the people I work. I'll take another ride. You put in charge of selling the latest family jewelry, just like Prodi did when we entered the euro, and we denounced it. Then we put chemistry, steel and a piece of agriculture on Europe's plate. Shall we continue like this? Do we want to put at a difficult time on the international market the last things we have left, once again on the altar of this failed Europe? We're worried. And that time the whole local public services sector was also wanted to be on the plate. Luckily, the Communist League and Refoundation defended him, otherwise everything would be in the hands of the French. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We will continue to do our opposition and will do it seriously. The likely 25%, as you said, of seats obtained by Eurosceptics or critics of Europe in the new Parliament means that there is a 25% of people in Europe who will support this position with your vote. But we do not want to be populists: we just say that we will be and will continue to be political and democratic resistance. You learn to listen to the parliamentary opposition. We will be against the lobbying of banks and the euro; we will be against that model of Europe which we do not share, and we have been saying so for 20 years. We will resist. We will be here to testify to our resistance [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fucksia. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u54	She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u55	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have listened carefully to the speech on which you are calling for confidence today and we have appreciated the priorities which are the subject of the government pact you have called "Impregno 2014" and which, for the most part, are the result, as you yourself said, of a basis of common consensus. We have also appreciated the method you are proposing, namely that of deepening the issues in the majority, not to call into question the priorities, but to decline together the content of the concrete actions. There is no doubt that institutional reforms are a priority, because without strong and credible institutions the country cannot be guided. The electoral law is also a priority, on which, however, it is necessary to understand well the method and the content rather than the Chamber on which it is to be dealt with. In fact, if its contents are clear and shared, it will not seem like a forced choice of a Chamber rather than the other. But the main energies of this Government will have to be devoted to giving answers to the social distress, which is now in danger of becoming the object of dangerous extremist drifts which, far from trying to give answers to legitimate requests for help, have the sole purpose of blowing the bench, but failing to explain that credible and practicable alternatives to this Government at this time do not exist. Just to keep these requests from falling unheard, I want to focus in particular on the part of the speech that you have dedicated to our talents. A great sin that we absolutely must not commit is not to value the talents that have been entrusted to us or, even worse, disperse them. And the most important talents on which we must invest are our young people, because enhancing human capital means that, at the crossroads between recovery and decline, for our country we choose the path of recovery and development. On human capital, however, we have two problems: quantity and quality. In Italy less talents are born than elsewhere and Italy is the second oldest country in Europe. Therefore we should build welfare policies that encourage birth, that put the value of life at the centre and the importance of the family, that support the family as a privileged place for the education of children. From a qualitative point of view, however, we have to ask ourselves what kind of education to give to our young people. The protagonist will have to be our education system again, a system that in the post-war years, in the 1960s, allowed us to form an entrepreneurial ruling class that made the economic boom of this country, a system that is now in crisis and fails to give effective answers. Our education system must, therefore, once again be central to our debate. First of all, it must become a system that differentiates paths, which focuses on technical education as well as on secondary education and vocational training. A system that guides young people on these different paths, depending on their possibilities and that, after having oriented them, re-evaluated also the manual work (of which there is so much need), is not afraid to reward the merit. If, therefore, we have the courage to focus on young people and put them in a position to deploy their energies, we will lay the foundations for getting out of this crisis and our country will be ready to start again thanks to the desire to undertake, to improve itself, to participate in the common good that many have demonstrated to have in the past and will prove to have still today for the future. [[Applause from the NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u57	Mr President, distinguished colleagues, illustrious President of the Council, members of the Government, once again President Letta is here to demand a vote of confidence for his Government. A government that, as everyone knows, has never been wanted by citizens, but is the result of a palace agreement between its PD and former Senator Silvio Berlusconi. The result of that agreement was the advent of a ridiculous political majority, which should have foreshadowed for the country the realization of an alleged season of fundamental reforms, thanks also to the so much praised broad understanding that in her and in the vice-president Alfano they saw the most convinced interpreters. Berlusconi and all his major vassals and valvassors of the phantasmagoric and now deceased PdL, such as Santanché, Capezzone, Verdini and Carfagna, for months have explained to the Italians the historical importance of a united government PD with and without L, the only one able to take the country out of the crisis and give a lesson of responsibility to those who, like the 5 Star Movement, irresponsibly according to them, thought it right instead that we return to the elections to return to the hands of citizens the choices on the destiny of Italy. Well, the solemn proclamations and the deep references to the general interest of the country have melted like snow in the sun just Berlusconi, thanks to the courage of the 5 Star Movement, was thrown out of this Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not already out of hateful personal grudges, but out of due respect for the laws of the State and the supreme principle of equality before the law of all citizens, even if rich and powerful. Of course, it is hard to imagine that anyone could believe the story of the general importance of the Government of broad understanding. In any case, it seems peaceful how this ruling class of old young people has been prepared to sacrifice any principle and value in order to protect and cultivate their personal ambitions of power. Loyalty to citizens and the Constitution has been so re-read in terms of loyalty to Master Berlusconi, thanks also, probably, to the conceivable comforts and comforts of his flourishing personal party. Hence the new great deception towards citizens: the formation of two parties, Forza Italia and Nuovo CentroDestra, both in different forms deployed to protect the absolutely private interests of their leader. The political framework, therefore, is now recomposing itself with the great fiction of a new fake majority of government that would see the old policy simultaneously occupy the majority and opposition of the institutional framework. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The objective is clear and clearly stated, that is to try to expel the 5 Star Movement from the scene and bring everything back into the golden mediocrity of a political class of old young people, exclusively engaged in the noble art of managing power in itself and completely incapable even of imagining any renewal in the general interest of citizens. In this perspective, Renzi's victory appears to be the extreme attempt of the PD to deceive the citizens, pretending a change that in reality, beyond the faces of the interpreters, does not exist at all. The Bulgarian percentage obtained by Renzi shows how all the old party godparents, beyond the declarations of facade, voted for the mayor of Florence. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I mean, once again, so much noise for nothing. So you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are still asking for a new vote of confidence for a new fake majority in government, which is born in the face of a fake crisis of your major parties. What really leaves speechless is your pervicacious indifference to the problems of the country and the tragedy of many families now to despair. As she continues, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to cross the world far and wide, as if nothing were happening, what should be her country is now exhausted. The serious mistake is to continue to think that citizens are not able to understand this. The image of the clashes in Turin, with policemen and demonstrators united in a sort of mutual recognition of the common dramatic social moment, should push this Government to abandon the scene and go home, thus giving each citizen the dream of a renewed hope for a better future. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The desperate country asks for help from politics to solve its problems. Your answer is the squalor of this government, with no soul and no future. As people continue to do so, they will soon get tired of mere questions of help and support. Now, Mr President, we need much more than what you are asking for here. It is no longer the time of the palace games: this political class of yours is now completely delegitimized. Let us give the word back to the citizens, with the honor and dignity of those who know how to understand, for the common good, that it is time to build a more beautiful and true Italy. The 5 Star Movement, with the consent of the voters, is ready to take up the challenge and lead this wonderful country. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u58	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u59	Mr Letta, you began by saying that there were twenty years wasted. I am sorry that the ministers with whom I shared my membership of the same party are not there to see whether they too consider twenty years wasted those who have devoted themselves to a certain membership and a certain militancy. [[Applause from Senator Giro]] I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to a number of very specific issues. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the bill of stability is being examined in these hours in the House. In recent days, like everyone else, I was very impressed by an interview with the Chief of Police, Pansa, who in a newspaper complained about the deficiencies of staff. I do not see the Vice-President of the Council and Minister for the Interior, but you have the authority to support, in the debate in the House, some amendments concerning the reinstatement in the police forces of the turnover that the Monti Government has limited and that our Governments, on the other hand, had ensured that police officers were not compressed. I should also like to say, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - it might be useful, even if it may seem trivial - that the amendments tabled by us are 1,1129, 1,1134, 1,1115, 1,1119 and 1.1526. I see the Minister for Economic Affairs is also here. I say this to you, Mr President, because we are looking at concrete objectives. We are convinced that in these hours of public security issues there are many on everyone's agenda, but we believe that the issue of staff is fundamental. In the amendments we have also indicated the cover: the Senate has been said no to our proposals, but there is the second reading. We will not vote for your confidence, Mr Letta, because we are very concerned about these aspects. We will not vote for confidence because we are also concerned about other issues. You spoke of the international economy and of Italy as an exporting country. We are concerned about some new agreements on international trade reached in Bali: we are an exporting country, but we are also a country that suffers unfair competition from those who produce not having the same rules and that therefore, with unfair competition, brings many Italian companies to their knees. We would like a commitment from Italy and Europe to protect our products, but we do not see this on its agenda today. We are concerned about unfair competition within our country. The recent dramatic story of Prato has brought to the news the phenomena of the criminal and illegal economy that are present in our country. His minister Kyenge wants to give citizenship to anyone born in Italy: I would be satisfied that the Chinese and others (even the Italians themselves) do not exploit children in the factories of lawlessness. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This is an issue that we must address in order to protect minors and Italian companies that I hope will not behave in the same way. We would like a more concrete commitment to the reduction of public debt: you spoke of 90 billion interests, but in your speech we did not hear a strategic plan mentioned. We agree on privatisation and I hope that the principles of participation and Mitbestimmung that you referred to will also be implemented. But for the Post Office we hope that you follow the model ENEL and ENI and rather do not escape some jewel from that reality that would then be impoverished in the services that it has to provide. We will not vote for trust because we have not yet figured out how to pay the second IMU instalment of 2013, and I remember that it is 11 December. We consider the way in which the government handled the matter of the house to be unbecoming! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] And we didn't share the management of house taxation for 2014. We hope that the debate on the stability bill in the House will correct those rules that we did not share on the house. As far as Europe is concerned, you have spoken about Europe's ayatollahs in recent days. We are not populists: we want to defend Italy from what you also called ayatollah and that with the policy of rigour they are bringing the peoples to their knees. I do not agree with those who block motorways, but I agree even less with those who kill people and lead them to despair, and that is what is happening with an obtuse policy of the European Union. [[Applause from Senator Marin]] You have praised them, but I believe that some criticism must be made and some firm attitude must be maintained. We are also willing to make reforms. Mrs Letta, you are President of the Council today, but I think you were an important exponent of the Democratic Party when your party voted against the reform of the Constitution that we did from these benches and that provided for the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the overcoming of bicameralism, the revision of Title V of the Constitution and also the direct election of the Premier. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] If you and your party colleagues did not have that referendum canceled the reform, what you want to do in six months would already be constitutional rule for many years. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We have done these things to her, and so our commitment will not be lacking. But you did not say one thing: you have to do the electoral law, but before the electoral law it is the form of the government the problem. If you say that we can make reforms of the Constitution by double reading on the points you listed, we add another: either presidentialism or the direct election of the Premier, changing the Constitution on this point as well. His Minister for Reform (which I do not see present), along with me, voted in this House, in the last parliamentary term, presidentialism with an amendment to the Constitution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] Then, for all these basic reasons, we will not vote for confidence by supporting Europe, privatisation, the management of public debt, constitutional reforms and support for positive, constructive and responsible political law enforcement. I leave out the issues of Parliament's illegitimacy and the role of the Constitutional Court: I do not have time to deal with them, others will. I hope you're the one who dictates the agenda. But the story of the primaries of the PD, dear President Letta, seems to me to entrust to others in his party the writing of the agenda. So, we'll see who we're gonna run into. We will support our reasons consistently. We will support the mandate given to us by the voters and, if we oppose it, by criticizing the current moment of European policy, we will reject the accusation of populism to the sender. We are trying, in fact, to make a policy consistent with the mandate received by the voters. Stability is important, but so is the life of peoples. That is why we will not vote for trust with loyalty. I would also like to draw the attention of President Grasso: I see that even today - it may be my fixation - the architect Renzo Piano has something else to do. He could have come to the House to deal with the fates of his country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u60	Senator Latorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u61	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is a necessary and unavoidable parliamentary debate. Allow me, however, President Letta, on behalf of the entire Group of the Democratic Party, first of all to thank you. His commitment, in these seven months of government, has managed to avoid financial collapse and has allowed us to deserve an international credibility that today is an essential ingredient to face a passage that I do not hesitate to define epochal. Woe to lose, however, the awareness of how our country is immersed in a non-ordinary crisis. I say this because the arranged combination of social tensions that the country is experiencing, and that in these days are exploding in questionable forms and in some cases also intolerable, with what citizens perceive as an incomprehensible decision-making vacuum of politics, the arranged combination of these two elements, I said, in addition to deepening the gap between institutions and society, is an explosive mixture for the purposes of the same democratic holding. We are witnessing a growing attack on the symbols of our democracy. There are those who do this every day: against the institutions, against the President of the Republic, against freedom of the press. Yesterday they even encouraged the carabinieri to rebel and join the protest of the "forcone". Fortunately we know that we can count on law enforcement forces that have broad shoulders: on women and men like the brigadiere Giuseppe Giangrande, to whom goes all our gratitude and our wish, now that he is coming home for Christmas. [[Applause from the PD, NCD and FI-PdL XVII groups, from the benches of the Government and Senator Di Maggio.]] Or like those cops who last month not only rejected the provocations of the No TAV, but also the insults of those who today instrumentally blaspheme them. There are too many sorcerer apprentices around. It is up to us, however, to understand the discomfort of law enforcement forces that continue to work and serve our country under difficult conditions. And on this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the law of stability is an opportunity to give a concrete signal from Parliament and the Government. There are many ways to weaken and undermine a country's democracy, we know that, but there is only one way to defend and strengthen it: democracy is strong when it decides and changes. That, Mr President, is the meaning of today's parliamentary debate: to put ourselves in a position to decide without wasting time, all the more so now that the scenario has changed since the beginning of this parliamentary term. With the break of the PdL and the exit of Forza Italia from the majority has changed the perimeter of the Government. The decision of the Constitutional Court on electoral law put us before yet another proof of weakness and indecision of politics, as if what happened at the time of the election of the President of the Republic had not already been enough. And, finally, there was the election of the new secretary of the Democratic Party, whose success is made extraordinary also by the great participation in the vote of the primaries, beyond any prediction. I understand, Senators of the 5 Star Movement, that the Bulgarian percentage of the Democratic Party frightens you in front of those from the telephone prefix of the parliamentarians. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD Group.]] I understand that, but we're definitely in the middle of a change of pace. When three million people ask politics to change itself and the country and do so by addressing our party, we feel all the weight of a great responsibility. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have said here convincing things about the priorities to be addressed and how to work in the coming days. I can only take up the call you made on the electoral law: it is from the day after your approval, eight years ago, that we all say we want to change it and we have not been able to do so on time. Today, one of the reasons for the urgency is not due, as the evil ones claim, to the urge to return to the vote. On the contrary: in addition to changing a law that was previously the worst in Europe and that would condemn the sentence to permanent ungovernability, it is necessary to regain credibility, showing immediately that we do what we say we want to do. And I would like to say to my colleagues who have raised objections and who have criticized President Zanda's statements that this is also the meaning of our request to you, President Grasso: there is no competition between the House and the Senate, nor iron arms. The stalemate that took place at the Senate and the announcement that President Letta made first to the Chamber and then to the Senate on the archiving of the special procedures of constitutional revision push us to reorganize the work by engaging simultaneously the two Chambers: moving to the Chamber the confrontation on electoral law and committing the Senate to face, with the other chapters of the reform, the overcoming of bicameralism towards the transformation of the Senate into the Chamber of Autonomies, thus making the work of the two Chambers effective, productive and parallel. We therefore confirm your confidence, Mr Letta, because we share the approach and objectives of your speech. The dangers of government crisis do not come and will not come from the Democratic Party; indeed, from today this Government we feel it more ours. Now, however, it is a matter of having the words followed immediately, but just now. This will be our categorical imperative, no matter what. [[Applause from the PD and PI groups and Senator Boemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u62	The debate is closed. I call on the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Letta, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u63	Mr President, I can announce to you that the Government will put its trust in the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romano, Zeller, Susta and Nencini. This is because we believe that what we have witnessed this afternoon was a profound debate, which highlighted exactly the need for discontinuity. It has been mentioned by many; today there are conditions, Senator Latorre, so that this discontinuity is indeed the element that allows us to say that the programme I have stated this afternoon can find faster forms of implementation than we had imagined in the past. Above all, this can enable us to face with greater determination what was at the heart of this afternoon's debate, which has been dealt with by many speeches, obviously in a different spirit: by some with a spirit that leads them to vote for trust, by others with a spirit that has led them to announce a vote against. Senator Nencini first, then Senator Alberti Casellati, finally Senator Gasparri, Senator Barani, the same Senator Volpi previously: all the heart of the discussion, from which I too started in my reflection and in the request for trust, was based on the relationship between the deep social crisis that exists in the country and the economic revival. That is the essential point, and we must realize that this essential point must be addressed knowing that we must not have an asymmetry in the way we deal with it: strabism is the worst thing. There is a profound social crisis, which is the result of the long wave of a crisis to which I would like us all to refer and on which a reflection must also be made regarding how it has been perceived. When it arrived - and the first indicators said it was already arriving at the end of 2007 or early 2008 (they were the first econometric indicators) - the crisis was not perceived in the country and society in its social aspects. Then, it continued to extend its effects and with a long wave, one or two years behind when the first macroeconomic indicators gave signs of concern, the crisis manifested its negative effects on unemployment, on the social aspects, on the impoverishment of our society, on the decline of purchasing power. This was a delayed effect, as always, compared to the first indicators. Why do I quote this point? Exactly for what we are living these days: the indicators tell us that the recovery is not only within reach, but in the last quarter the decline in GDP has stopped; in this quarter (October-November-December) we will have for the first time the sign "more" and in 2014 this sign "more" will accompany us throughout the year. These are positive elements, together with the fall in interest rates and spreads, which today has again increased to 222-223 points, like yesterday. This is particularly important, because I know very well that the spread comes out of everyone's ears after these years and that it is no longer possible, but it is not an abstract thing. In fact, an entrepreneur who has to ask for a mortgage to make an investment, if the spread is at 300 or 400 contracts a mortgage with a rate of interest twice what he would have with a spread at 150 or 200, as it might be. They are very concrete facts that have an immediate chain effect, very strong and direct. So, the basic theme is: today the indicators tell us (and after seven months of government action I could touch them with hand, so I am in a position to express myself concretely) that the recovery is there and is at hand, but are these indicators an immediate touch on the social crisis that is the child of this long wave? Evidently not. These indicators can allow us to restart, but for this reason we need a policy that intervenes on the conditions for the recovery to be consolidated and, on the other hand, for interventions that can soothe the social wounds of the long wave of the crisis, which are terrible; they are social wounds that have to do with all the things that have been talked about. Senator Volpi, you have made a series of examples that are true, they are not fake: I have total and full awareness of it, as I believe each of us here. To tell people that someone goes to the country and someone just figures means to do wrong to people's intelligence: we are all people who go to the country. [[Applause from the PD, SCMp, PI and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Bianconi.]] We are all people who know that the only way out of the crisis is to have exactly today a policy that can, on the one hand, support the revival and recovery (in progress) and, on the other hand, to soothe the wounds of this long, terrible wave, which has led to the closure of companies, unemployment, the decline in purchasing power and all the difficulties we know. These are two complementary but different types of policies that many speakers have mentioned. For example, Senator Lepri and Senator Di Maggio have touched on the issue of labour rules, that is, how to create conditions by which, when the recovery comes, there is a system, a labour market that is more ready to meet the objectives. In my speech, I have made a number of references and the discussion we are going to have on "Impegno 2014" will certainly be able to deepen many other aspects. Other speeches have touched on issues that have to do with more industrial aspects, very complex and complicated issues that I do not want to take up here. Still others stressed the need to soothe the social wounds to which I referred earlier. I am convinced that we must be slow, that we must ensure that the measures adopted in these seven months are implemented and that new measures are also taken: I am thinking of experimentation on the support of active inclusion, which intervenes (and must intervene) exactly on that second phenomenon, that is, the drift towards poverty of Italian families who have lost their jobs. I know very well - I tell Senator Compagnone - that these interventions must be more calibrated than the subject of the Mezzogiorno: I listened to your speech carefully, like everyone else, and you certainly took a point that is true. Having spent the morning in the House and the afternoon and evening in the Senate, in the interval between the two sessions I met our astronaut, Luca Parmitano, together with the president of the Italian Space Agency, because it is part of those important realities of our country of which we must be proud and that we must relaunch. Italy is at the forefront in the field of investment in space and everything that has to do with industrial innovation in those fields. I mentioned this theme not to tie space to the Mezzogiorno, but to tie a joke that Luca Parmitano, the astronaut, made me, to whom I asked what is the thing that he thought looking at Italy from above. Parmitano, direct and dry, answered me something very simple: Looking at Italy from above, I thought that Italy is one and, seen from above, all those bales about the division of Italy into two and other things have no meaning whatsoever. [[Comments of the LN-Aut Group. Applause from the PD, PI, SCMp and NCD groups.]] I think that these words are important, true, profoundly true, because we must start from those territories that are more in crisis and more in difficulty, and we must do so in a way that takes into account the difficulties we are experiencing. Many have discussed and discussed the issue of stability. It was mentioned in several interventions by representatives of Forza Italia in a negative way. Senator Fattorini, on the other hand, made an intervention that I fully agree with. I do not know if Senator De Cristofaro will be sorry if I say that I agree with him: we must put in place a radical reforming action. I think there's no oxymoron, too. I'm overconvinced. I have been here today trying to tell you exactly this: what we want to do is move in that direction, and today there are the political conditions, for the greater cohesion of the majority, to go in that direction. Senator Susta, I too think as you said before: governing in easy times have probably done so in many, who have passed to history; ruling in difficult times brings no recognition, no advantage. It seems that everything is a great indistinct blob, which is not perceived in its elements of change: this fundamental noise, which wants to make the element with which the country addresses and discusses these issues. On this I disagree, and I say this very frankly, speaking and quoting a subject that everyone has touched on. The social malaise exists in Italy, but we do not exchange the protests of these hours of drivers for one thing that is another. When a government is to discuss with economic categories, the government faces the discussion with representatives of those economic categories. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]] If the Government identifies forms of agreement that hold more than 90% of those categories together, it is simply not true that what is happening is the representation of the country. That's not true. [[Applause from the PD, PI, SCMp, NCD and Aut groups.]] Colleagues, to smooth the hair to this idea that those who represent a small minority of an economic category can speak on behalf of all is a upheaval of the rules of economic democracy, rules that we must follow. [[Applause from the PD, PI, SCMp, NCD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] The government has dealt with that issue, discussing it with the representatives of those categories. The Government has put initiatives on the ground, and has put resources on the field; the representatives of those categories have given consent and agreement. It is clear that the issue here is what the country's malaise means, who represents it. The malaise is there, but I am concerned about the widespread malaise of those who have entered into trouble and who cannot have a voice, who do not have the strength to make themselves heard. That is why the choices we have made, which we must make and which we must take forward must go exactly in the direction of finding the solutions that have been identified, even in the debate in this House. Much has also been said about reforms. Senator Tronti's and Senator Torrisi's speeches, in my opinion, have taken an important point. We must, and with this vote of confidence we go in that direction, pick up some points, with an ambition that is not that of the great Constituent who rewrites our entire Constitutional Charter (it is clear to all that there are no conditions), but that they are able to remove some junctions that have made our system a system that decides badly and from which citizens do not feel represented. That mechanism is, in my opinion, a working mechanism on which we must move forward. And Senator Torrisi is right when he said before (I say it addressed to the Senators of Forza Italia who intervened, last Senator Gasparri and who would have wanted the Government to fall already two months ago): the crisis of Government, two months ago, in the condition in which we then found ourselves (and in which we are today), with the Constitutional Court that made its choices, would have been a crisis in the dark, without any possibility of exit. I know very well (having experienced this experience as a young man) how dramatic the division within a political force is, one division for which some take one path and some take another. It is an event to which everything can be done except to deal with it in a light and superficial tone. Relationships, relationships and prospects are touched, which are absolutely delicate to manage. So, I fully respect them. And I would like to sincerely thank those senators who have spoken today, Senator Mancuso, Senator Chiavaroli, as well as Senators Torrisi and Compagnone, whom I have already mentioned, who have expressed their willingness to give their vote of confidence to the Government in this situation. And I mean, quietly and with great sincerity, to Senator Crimes and Senator Ciampolillo, who, in my opinion, if you underestimate what is happening and what has happened, you make a mistake; if you think that what is happening is all a big fake, in which a great political movement has split into two and makes the play of the parts, I do not think you have understood that what has happened in these weeks and months around the previous seven months and the future political perspective, is probably the main political event of these twenty years of second Republic. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups]] It is a change that has, and will have, consequences for which everyone will have to face up: underestimate him or treat him sufficiently, as has been done before, in my opinion it is not the right approach. I respect the ongoing labor, which is a complex labor to live, but I also know that what is happening is a profound change of perspective of our system. On the other hand, we are here to think precisely of a government with a perspective that stands in a different direction from the one with which we started. Compared to this, I would also like to thank Senator Lanièce for the themes he has touched on and Senator Micheloni for the issues related to the topic of Italians abroad. I want to conclude with a very strong reasoning and a reflection on what awaits us, in front of us. Someone spoke of excessive optimism. I am convinced that this work, which we must do with the greatest possible sensitivity and political intelligence, aimed on the one hand at creating the conditions for those signs of recovery not to be thrown away and create genuine recovery and jobs and, on the other hand, at intervening to soothe the many wounds that are present today, is a complex and difficult job that needs institutions that can work. I am convinced that not only are the conditions on this issue, but there is today the unity of intent, the desire and the skills to work forcefully in this direction. But I know very well that for all this we need passion, and to know that 2014 is the year in which in Italy - if we solve the problems of the people to whom I referred - politics can regain dignity and get out of the corner in which it has been hunted all these years. In my opinion, the real stake is this, and when I first said, in reply, to the Chamber of Deputies - and I repeat this here - that I will fight like a lion, it is because I believe that a country without a strong and legitimate policy is a country that takes a road that I do not want Italy to take. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, PI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and SCMpI Groups]] . Many congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u64	I thank the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u67	GIANNINI (SCMpI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to vote for confidence in a European Italy. We live, work and continue to engage in a tired and distrusted country, in which social tension - more or less everyone has repeated it - has reached alarming levels in these last days. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I invite those who have to leave the Chamber to do so in silence. GIANNINI (SCMpI). Thank you, Mr President. However, this country wants and must regain its dignity - as you said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, at the end of your speech - and the momentum to be part of a great project: the project of a people's Europe, in the context of a global world, in which to be united and identifiable in this unity will mean to be able to participate, to influence, and that is to count, to find the path of growth and development. Europe, in our vision, is not a theme, it is the context, the necessary and irrevocable condition for any national political action to find meaning and generate progress. But this means giving back to politics, also and above all to our national politics, its primary responsibility: that of choosing and deciding which objectives, with which instruments and in which times to start that process of radical reform of the country, politically, institutionally and economically, of which Italian society - we have all said so and I repeat this - still has a dramatic need. And this today, not tomorrow. We have proposed a method, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, so that your government, which is limited in numbers and therefore necessarily inspired by more ambitious objectives, can truly become the driving force behind the necessary change. Our method is called a coalition contract, which we first suggested in June last - you wanted to remind me and I am grateful - as a precise and safe track for broad understandings, but which the broad understandings could not or could not accept. We are sure that, if accepted, that proposal would have helped the Government not to give in to blackmail, which we still remember, unpleasantly, and above all could have created a law of stability more solid, already oriented to those policies that will constitute the pillars of the political agenda of the 2014 Commitment: year in which we hope that discontinuity emerges clearly. They are reforms that have only political costs and that, by political will, can give us back a stronger, more competitive, simpler and more educated Italy. The work (everyone has said it and I repeat it myself) is the top priority in Italy and Europe and it is our priority. We call on the Government to intervene, first and foremost, immediately, by simplifying a right of hypertrophic labour. Thousands of rules dispersed in tens of thousands of pages can be enclosed in a few dozen articles, as Senator Ichino has shown (the theme is very popular and I remember the authentic copyright) and we know well how the uncertainty and the incomprehensibleness of a dark regulation is a powerful disincentive for those who want to invest and an extraordinary opportunity for those who want to take irregularly. Similarly, with definite measures and time limits, we call for action to be taken on the public placement service, which does not actually exist. This is already a step forward, but it is not enough. Region by Region, through a model of cooperation with private services, we ask to introduce the relocation contract as a tool for the connection between passive policies and active labour policies, for the support of income, for the incentive to the mobility of the workforce from the sectors and companies in contraction to those in phase of expansion. At this stage of emergency, Mr President, we must also have the courage of experimentation and innovation: extraordinary measures such as a more flexible and flexible permanent employment relationship, with reduced contributory and tax costs and a selective reduction by the Irpef on women's incomes, to encourage the rate of women's activity, on which Italy is, after Malta, the Union's taillight. I have not heard so much about this issue in this House today, and we would like this to be the first government that is committed to replacing gender rhetoric with concrete gender policies. We will also, and above all, commit ourselves to this. [[Applause from the SCMpi and PD Groups]] For reasons of time I do not want to leave aside the important, fundamental institutional issues that the decision of the Council on electoral law today makes more urgent, but that the changed political framework may make it more complicated to deal with. These are not the Commission's own issues, but the Commission will have to take them into account. They call into question, above all, the political forces and Parliament, and here we will be ready to show real political maturity. I would add that we firmly believe that the Senate should maintain its work on the reform of the electoral law. Nor do I go into the substance of the issues I have mentioned as a priority, because I just want to call for explicit acts of political courage, which we need. A government that cuts costs must commit to return them to companies and families (therefore a transparent and stated pact, binding and non-derogable in order to allocate the savings of the spending review 2014-2016 to the reduction of the tax wedge and IRAP, that is the savings of the public budget that become savings in the budgets of the companies and gains in the pockets of the workers and their families); a government that wants to simplify and modernize the country must intervene with timely laws, clear and consistent with respect to the political objectives. Since 2009, all liberalisation measures have been lost in the search for untraceable political balances: now is the time to follow up the Antitrust findings on obstacles to the transparency and competitiveness of the market for goods and services in the different sectors: transport, communications, energy, networks, professional services and postal services. Liberalizations and privatisations are closely linked processes, they belong to the same culture as the public-private relationship and if they are real they must not involve public control over the societies they generate. Finally, Mr President, a subject which I am particularly concerned about, which is not too much noted today, but which I would put first in a personal hierarchy: a Government which intends to contribute to the construction of a renewed European agenda (taking over its leadership and not subjugating its policies from above, certainly starting from the extraordinary opportunity that is constituted by the European Presidency) must invest in education without shyness, without recovering from excise duties, with a generosity that is in terms of political strategy. [[Applause from the SCMpI Group]] It must guarantee a right to consolidated and widespread study, but at the same time favour those paths of excellence that Italy also possesses, that must be valued and endowed with a managerial and financial autonomy, so that, again in this case, the rhetoric of merit, here often evoked, gives way to the culture of merit. The school decree, which allocated about one third of the 450 million euros allocated to the stabilisation of precarious people, frankly did not go exactly in this direction. One must then invest in research by encouraging the attraction (he said well in his introductory speech) of Italian and foreign private investments. Here too the instruments exist: they must be applied. A tax credit of more than 50 percent made Singapore the Eldorado of knowledge. Why must Italy not, in tomorrow's Europe, take on this primacy? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I very much appreciated the European part of your speech and reminded me of the words I heard from you, Mr Barroso and others in Milan on Monday morning. A new European narrative must find a new audience able to understand, share and spread it, if we want to return a concrete and long-term horizon to the dream of a continent of integration, and therefore also an immediate sensitivity to the issues of immigration, the right of citizenship, social inclusion and development. To conclude, I would like to point out that the causes of the weakness of the Italian economic system are structural and can only be remedied by structural reforms. We will be engaged on this front right away and our support for the convinced government will, however, remain conditional on the agreement on a coalition pact that is able to meet the conditions of merit and method that I have summarized. In the coming weeks we will have the immediate verification that this is the Italian and European horizon that we want to achieve together. [[Applause from the SCMpi and PD groups.]] (19.39 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u70	D'ANNA (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you mentioned two words, both in your introductory report and in your reply. The first was relative to the essence of the problems, the second to the awareness of the problems. In ten minutes we can do nothing but outline our consent and dissent. I will try to do so in the short time allocated to us. When you mentioned the essence of the problems, the French existentialists came to my mind: Sartre, Camus. The first said that existence must never take over the essence, that is, the things of the world, habits, everyday life cannot distort what man cannot but be. While Camus, in the myth of Sisyphus, whom you will surely remember, speaks to us of the awareness of the uselessness of man's work whenever the boulder slides downstream. Starting from these two assumptions, I want to ask you questions, not criticism. I would simply like to ask you, without an ironic or rhetorical vein: what kind of government do you preside over? Is it the government of the bourgeoisie? Is it the government of the proletariat? Is it a liberal government? A socialist government? A Social Democratic Government? Or are you among the many who in the political history of this country have sought and seek a third way? Why am I telling you this? Because if you answer this essential question you will begin to realize that we are at a historic point of no return, where the warm cloths of deflated policies, of the redistribution of wealth, of all the tools that a Government can use to mitigate social storms no longer have reason to be, because they do not solve the problem. In this country, the ruling group, the political class - not she who is young enough - has ruled over the last forty years by building, through statism, a series of redundant, expensive, inefficient superstructures, and has paid them with the leverage of public spending. And what have the rulers before us done? They have rewarded the contemporaries by placing the cost on posterity, which they do not vote and do not protest. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have the very heavy burden and burden on your shoulders of facing posterity, that is to say, young people who do not have a job, young people who have stole the future from the governments that have built up the statism over the years. The problem is not whether those who protest represent 10 or 90 percent of the population (but there is a hatred, a badness, a rage around not justified by the grave moment of crisis): our children blame us essentially for not having future prospects for a job and a dignified life, such as the generations who preceded that of the present youth. The question I ask you is: do you have complete consciousness that statism is the true Italian pathology? That the use of public spending is the real pathology? That the policy of so-called social justice or the redistribution of wealth is euphonic? In this nation, high taxation and the criminal state have impoverished those who have to produce wealth. Are you convinced that we must wage war on poverty and not wealth? Are you convinced that you have an epochal junction, and not that of electoral reform, Mr President-in-Office of the Council? You have to reform the state, its tasks, its powers; you have to put criteria of competence, productivity, efficiency, quality, merit and cost-effectiveness within everything that the state manages. You must dismantle wheelchairs and customers: you must do so in health care, transport, school, public service. I want to give you an example. She can go down into the well, where there is the water of income and taxes, a basket of wicker of small or large size, but when she pulls it up she will not have brought to the mouth a single drop of water, because it will have been wasted, squandered in the thousand streams and in the thousand holes that the basket has. The problem is not the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, this volcano that we offer, which politicians offer to the public because it "makes scenes." The real problem is to reduce the EUR 2,100 billion of public debt which, as you rightly pointed out earlier, cost us 90 billion of interest a year. Tell me something else: you are a prudent politician, you will have read Luigi Sturzo's book against proportional representation and you will remember that Sturzo admonishes all those who are going to make electoral reforms. Be careful: the quality of the political class does not depend on the system through which you elect those politicians. Therefore, if anyone thinks savingly of saying to the outside: "Let's reduce the parliamentarians, let's make the majority, let's put in the preferences" is a man who lies knowing to lie. Allow me to conclude, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: we should do all these things; you should do all these things, which are truly epochal. You will have to do things you will have to remember over the next 20 years. I wish him well (not with my vote: my wish is a wish that I address to his person, not to his policy). And you think you can go on with the forty essays, whose end is not given to know what it is? Senator Latorre, with great grace, reminded us that it is better that the reform to change the institutional structure is discussed in the House, because there would be 148 parliamentarians by majority who, according to the Constitutional Court, would be illegitimately elected through a majority prize that should not exist. We are still at the small cunnings, the unmotivated subsiege of those who hide behind a formal perbenism, but in essence there is still the cleverness of politics, that of moving the reform of the Senate to the House - look that bizarre - because there is a more comfortable majority. [[Recalls of the President]] I have not heard you say - and I shall conclude - a word about the reform of justice, Mr President. Not one. You see, if you believe that the matter of justice has ended with this barbarity done to President Berlusconi, you are mistaken.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u71	Conclude, Senator D'Anna, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u72	D'ANNA (GAL). Justice concerns all Italians. He complained, Mr President, that there are people who are protesting. In 1922 the Battle Fasci found the synthesis in the mutilated victory. Today the ferments in the squares have the same seed: the seed of anarchy, violence and revolt against the institutions of the State. This is your task and - let me tell you - is not accompanied by Alcide De Gasperi in the path that still awaits you.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u75	ROMANO (PI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mr Letta, you are here today, once again making your careful and provident institutional sensitivity, to ask for the vote; a vote of confidence for a new beginning, for a pact that you have defined as "2014 commitment." Italy observes us with particular attention, with trepidation I would say, for the multiplicity of criticalities that anguish and seem to preclude the future. Today, Italy is a fragile society and stunned by the crisis: this is the beginning of its intervention this evening. However, you have opened up to hope, which is not sterile utopia. You have outlined political, institutional and legislative paths that point to the concrete reality of a political culture that we can summarize in the expression 'Community democracy', dear to us of the Per l'Italia Group. A smaller majority in numbers, but more cohesive in intent, can help Italians develop solidarity and community paths. We are, and I am referring to my Group, not those of the aut - aut, but those of the et - et -: this does not mean, however, supine condescendence and passive acceptance of programmes and proposals. With an open heart, with constructive intelligence and, therefore, sometimes critical, but with a high head and with dignity of values and principles, President Letta, we cooperate. We do not accept that from outdated ideologisms or populisms we can pass through new, no less persuasive and no less captivating. As you mentioned in your report, the precedent was not a government at all costs and we can say that you have prepared what you are putting to our trust today. The commitment that we take, placing our trust, cannot be regarded as mere acceptance of a political-institutional reality from which it is impossible to ignore. It is impossible, however, to exclude President Letta - and we are firmly convinced of this - from that political culture of solidarity and community that makes us say that the time of lonely men in command and self-referential elitist movements is over. It is not possible, nor acceptable, that in a country marked by a deep crisis they may paradoxically converge, in an optical illusion, but possible and concrete reality, opposing positions, ranging from those who want the fall of the Government, to those who could suffocate the Government itself for too much love. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, our governmental responsibility is, in fact, shared and shared in proportion to the respective parliamentary forces, however, which cannot be underestimated in terms of planning and responsibility. His speech and - let me say, without a sin of piousness - his testimony open horizons of innovation and reformism. We are with you, we are at your side, allies, I dare say friends, who want to cooperate so that our country lives a new season. But consider us, as we are, loyal and sometimes demanding friends, who, in collaboration, often also based on different perspectives and legislative actions, aspire to be courageous in institutional reforms, solidarity in responding to the needs of the weakest, friends of a healthy responsible and competitive entrepreneurship, close to the needs of families, interpreters of forgotten generations, advocates of reconciliation between family and work and equal opportunities, promoters of the fundamental role of intermediate bodies, associationism and volunteering, tireless supporters of education and research, values of progress. Mr President, we are a great country, which perhaps forgot to be one, which has lost confidence: we can and must do it, so that the optimism of the will prevails, and it will also achieve the optimism of reason. The will in the institutions is also combined with the responsibilities of everyone: the young people, the generations who are and who will come, the ever-larger group of people who live in poverty and need. You referred to the European vision of Italy. We subscribe to it and I would like to say: we are Europe, we are not only in Europe; yet, even being Europe is no longer enough, we must work to ensure that our globalisation also has a human face. I will conclude by saying that we will give our support and trust to the Government you have chaired so that we can carry out, together, a programme that is certainly ambitious, but not impossible. [[Applause from the PI and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u78	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the vote of confidence that you, Mr Letta, are asking Parliament today is the turning point of the majority in government and the legislature. The government programme you have presented corresponds to this priority. We fully agree with your proposals for economic policy action and your proposals for constitutional reform. The new majority, although in discontinuity with what has so far supported its Government, has maintained the characteristic of a Service Government: a Government that is aware of having a limited duration in time, in order only to bring the country out of the emergency situation and implement within the next twelve months the most urgent reforms, and then return to the vote in 2015. That said, it is clear that our agreement to trust presupposes clear and explicit reflection, with reference to the objectives of the legislature. We intend to firmly reject the irresponsibility of those who, in opposition, converge instrumentally towards destructive, anti-system positions or those who promise miracles for the umpteenth time. This does not solve Italy's problems. Even after the Court's ruling, no constitutional body is illegitimate: those who maintain the opposite point to profound constitutional illiteracy. The attacks on the Constitutional Court and the President of the Republic of Naples are also completely unjustified and instrumental. On the other hand, we renew our sharing with the Head of State here. We must never forget that a very large majority of this Parliament, and even those who insult it today, recently begged President Napolitano to stand again, in order to avoid a serious political and institutional crisis caused by the inability and impotence of the parties to elect a new Head of State. Its constant warnings in support of a reform process, first of all for a reform of the electoral law, have had and intend to preserve the institutions from a further and unstoppable crisis of credibility. President Napolitano for us is a great man who must be appreciated for his continued efforts in favor of the good of the country. However, it cannot be denied that, from a political point of view, Parliament is weakened - after the Court's ruling - and, perhaps also by the end of the broad understandings, no longer in a position to make far-reaching reforms such as that of the form of government. Instead of aiming too high, with projects of profound constitutional reform, and then arriving - as unfortunately happened several times in the past - at nothing, it is preferable to limit itself to a few points that are widely shared, which are then also those that affect the citizens. The reform of the electoral law is inescapable and urgent in the first place. In any case, it would be completely inappropriate to go to the vote under the current electoral law, mutilated by the recent ruling of the Supreme Court, which eliminated the majority prize and introduced, perhaps with an additive ruling, preferences. In addition to the doubt I have about the direct applicability of this law, it would certainly not guarantee governability and risk political chaos, which may be someone's goal, but certainly not ours. As the Council states, Parliament is fully entitled to adopt new electoral laws, according to its own political choices, in accordance with constitutional principles. Therefore, in the interests of the country, we must for once abandon the oppositions and biased interests that have blocked the reform of the electoral law. It is not acceptable behavior that we are showing our fellow citizens to date. It is also time to say enough to the logic of referral and small shop calculations. The citizens expect concrete answers from this majority at last. We as a Group For Autonomies are ready to make our contribution, both for a law of proportional installation, with preferences and a majority prize, and for a correct Mattarellum. What we are asking is only to take into account the particular need of linguistic minorities, which certainly cannot exceed the electoral thresholds calculated throughout the national territory. We do not participate in the opposing sides that would like to make the role of the Senate or the House prevail in the start of the process of reform of the electoral law: it is for us a completely useless debate in a system that is still bicameral. We ask only one thing: that the Senate and the House finally speak. With regard to constitutional reforms, it appears today, if not precluded, certainly more difficult to adopt an extraordinary procedure, because of the nature of the opposition that Forza Italia has chosen; it is their responsibility and we must take note of it. What is essential is that these reforms should also be achieved by applying the ordinary Article 138 procedure. In our view, the number of Members should be reduced by at least one third, from 630 to 450-500 Members, in order to be on the average of European Parliaments. The choice of differentiated bicameralism requires a decision on the nature of the Senate; our option is for a Bundesrat Senate model, therefore non-elective, that has a true and direct representation of the autonomy. It will be difficult to implement, in this crucial year ahead, the reform of Title V; In any case, such a reform will not lead to a new form of centralism, but, in the opposite perspective, to the strengthening of the federal system. The reform of Title V must take place in such a way that the State and the self-government can at the same time strengthen their potential. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would also like to take this opportunity to renew our esteem and gratitude to you and your Government, in particular to Mr Delrio and Mr Franceschini, also on behalf of the Group I chair. We have appreciated the way in which he has governed in recent months, very difficult, also for the continuous interventions and attempts of conditioning by President Berlusconi, who unfortunately has put a personal problem before those of the country. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your efforts and the results of the Government have not always been properly appreciated by the public and the press, who very often forget the enormous difficulties facing Italy today, overwhelmed by previous debt, supervised by Europe and out of the February vote without a cohesive majority. It was not easy to govern with an uncomfortable partner who had a right of veto; I hope that this problem was resolved by the vote of 27 November. Certainly the government has not managed to do everything it had planned, in view of this difficult political situation and the delay in economic recovery, but on the whole we give a positive judgment, also because the fruits of its work will be seen next year. Our opinion is therefore also positive for the attitude you have had towards the autonomy, which has radically changed compared to the past. There is a continuous and profitable confrontation with the autonomy and the litigation before the Constitutional Court has already been significantly reduced, with a strong reduction of the appeals. With the delegation of state functions to the Valle d'Aosta Region and the Autonomous Provinces, as required by the law of stability, it seems possible to resolve the litigation in the matter of erial reserves. We will thus ensure efficient services and legal certainty on our territories, but also a further important contribution to the consolidation of state finances. The novelty with regard to the past is that all this happens with a relationship of loyal collaboration between the Executive and the autonomy; this is the particular reason for our appreciation. Mr President, you have given a real and concrete perspective to the special autonomy and demonstrated the reliability of this Government; which is particularly important for the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, where the separatist forces demanding detachment from Italy are advancing, also because the previous Governments had unfortunately abandoned the path of consensus and the principle of understanding that lies at the basis of the De Gasperi-Gruber Pact. For these reasons, the Group for Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will vote for its government. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u81	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, the Senators of the Left Ecology and Freedom will not vote for trust in your Government but - let us say this very clearly - we do not want to think that we are being crushed in an idea of opposition that can have political and cultural indulgence towards populism. President Letta, you have heard in our words, and not since today, how much it is for us to fight populism on the political and cultural ground, and how much we believe what is entering worrying and dangerous. For this reason, from this point of view I hope you will have the intellectual honesty not to think of doing with us the operation of crushing all those who are in opposition of his Government to the streets of populism or to purely demagogic hypotheses. We will not vote for your government's trust, but that is not why we feel anti-European. As you know, we have always had a great deal of attention, not rhetoric, to Europe, and we have always thought, especially in recent times, that precisely in order to save Europe, to save the idea of a Europe of the peoples, of a Europe that could be effective and give a future perspective of well-being to the people, it was necessary to call into question precisely those policies that were rigorous and bureaucratic which - I have seen that you too think so - must be opposed. Only by defeating these can we prevent the anti-European drift, President, which is very dangerous (which unfortunately I think we will also notice in the European elections) that there is not only in Italy but also in the rest of Europe. Precisely because we are in the front row fighting populism and all anti-European spirits, we believe that precisely for this reason, in order to fight them and defeat them, it is necessary to do what your Government has not been able to do until now, and we unfortunately think, alas, that it will not be able to do so in the future either. Just to remove the soup of cultivation to what is happening in these hours in our country, that we must not underestimate - it must be a little more than a warning bell - we must put in the field serious, effective answers to what we consider (and not only us) perhaps the greatest economic and social crisis that Italy has ever known. Of course, our country went through other crises, but they were different. Even in the most dramatic moments, even immediately after the First World War or in conjunction with the crisis of 1929, there was always a feeling of hope; what strikes us today is the coincidence of this great economic and social crisis with the crisis of credibility of politics, institutions, the democratic crisis. It is this coincidence, this concause that really makes us worry and that needs much more effective answers. You brought here as a positive result of your Government (almost triumphantly, let me say that) the fact that according to yesterday's figures GDP does not show a negative sign: zero growth, to use a word that we do not like. However, he forgets to say that this result has been achieved only by drawing on the reservations and that up to now the mantra of stability and governability to get out of the crisis that also distinguished his first settlement speech with the Government of the broad understandings, has transformed - alas! - in the mantra of stagnation; I therefore do not believe that it can boast of this or of the results achieved so far. The social and employment situation is dramatic, as you know perfectly well, and the figures for youth unemployment stand out, particularly for women, Mr President, which has now risen to almost 50%. There are 18 million Italians and Italians at risk of poverty; there is despair in our country that is turning into a desperate feeling of social resentment. You had presented yourself with three commitments at the time of the inauguration of the Government of broad understanding and then when you came again to demand confidence: constitutional reforms and electoral law, occupation, then pacification (but on this we could open yet another speech). It was failures. Moreover, these seven months the Italians will remember them for the great mess of the IMU (also here we were easy prophets), and all this because you have indulged and your Government has been obsequious towards the demands then of the PdL and today of this New Right Center. Among other things, just today his vice-premier Alfano said that there is much center-right in his programmatic speech today and that he recognizes himself perfectly (I also say this to Senator Giannini who called for policies for equal opportunities that came out of rhetoric) in the male relationship - I repeat, male - that she wants to have with Europe. This also says a lot about the cultural sign, alas still so heavy, of the center-right that exists in your government. Today you have set out on the ground and have again outlined a series of objectives using also nice words (we say the usual words) about school, research, work; you have even talked about what should be the assets with which Italy can think of returning to the field, which can distinguish economic recovery. He spoke of the strengths of Italy, which we share (culture, natural resources, beauty, care of the territory); but then I would like to ask you, Mr Letta: when you talk about investing in the school, in your opinion, is it an investment for the school, to strengthen it, to propose, as your minister Carrozza recently did, the reduction of the years of high school duration? Is it to be brought as an element of conquest the fact that our young people are graduating first? Perhaps it is another measure of spending review, certainly not important for our school. You talk about investing in the territory: but have you read your law of stability? Unfortunately, we have read it. Do you know what you put trust in the Senate when we examined the law of stability? In this measure there is no idea, for example, of the work that today is the real great emergency of the country. We have made a tough opposition in this House to make a commitment to invest resources in the care of the territory and create jobs. While we counted the dead of Sardinia, Mr President, we fought in this House a very hard battle for resources against the devastation of the territory, and there was no sign that it could encourage and begin to think that we are on the right path to the economic recovery of our country. Another matter. You have come here to tell us that you are abandoning the special procedures provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution. At least have the courage to say that we were right! We are here and we have challenged you in saying that we needed to make a package of shared reforms, using the normal procedure provided for in Article 138 of our Constitution. We came here to say that the priority was that of the electoral law and not to go and build a Committee, put on wise men and take time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator De Petris. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). These were mistakes, Mr President, that you should have the intellectual honesty to admit to this House. That is why we think it is necessary to change completely, because the right path today, Mr Letta, is not what you have come to point out. We are convinced, and for this reason we will continue to oppose your Government and these small agreements, that the right path of change in our country really goes farther. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u84	BITONCI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the senators of my Group will now put a symbol on the benches, and we will do so without irony. (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group rest on the benches of the military Basques). They're Marò Basques. We have listened carefully to your communications in this House and, frankly, Mr Letta, you must explain to us what changes compared to yesterday and why we should now give you confidence. You've always talked about the same things. In today's intervention, like in a Bignami, there is a summary of his previous interventions on reforms, economy and employment. Today it has also moved to anticipate an economic mini-resume that is coming. Who are you kidding? Yours is just an attempt to liven up to 2015, with the excuse of overcoming the European semester, hoping to weaken the opposition, and also its secretary Renzi, who is eager to send you home. His was to be a Government of broad understanding, it was to be the Government of the great constitutional reforms: so it was in other European countries. It was supposed to be the Government of change, but it was none of this: it became the Government at all costs, and you are ringing up a whole series of useless measures and measures with now weekly confidences. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On the inside, it's a real disaster. The IMU operation proved to be a real failure; you mocked the virtuous Municipalities, those who did not increase the rates. You promised compensation with the Solidarity Fund. On the other hand, citizens will be forced to pay part of the second down payment; you have taxed offices, shops and production activities with increases of up to 500 percent. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Yours is an asset: let's call it by its name, because this is the IMU on the productive buildings of the enterprise, and it is a real madness. You hit sheds that serve to produce income. The company's income, Mr President, is already being burdened by IRES and IRAP. You led us to a real 63.8 percent tax, a world record. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] To continue with your records, which I would define as absolute: unemployment records at 12.5 percent (there are six million, unemployed and unemployed); exodus records (there are 300,000, thanks to the Fornero law that you have not been able to cancel); youth unemployment records (42 percent); records of young Italian immigrants abroad (in 2012 there were 68,000) records in tax payments (over 100 percent: this is a contradiction in terms, Mr President; you had to call them not tax advances, but tax thefts) [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ; record in the cost of bureaucracy (61 billion a year, and we do not say so at the League, but your Deputy Minister); record in bankruptcy (9,900 companies failed this year, 12 percent more than in 2012); record in the contraction of consumption; record in the decrease of VAT revenues (with a decrease of 3.5 billion); r ecord in public debt (134 percent on GDP, equal to 2,080 billion, second in Europe after Greece). Luckily, you, President Letta, talk about reducing public spending, with 800 billion spending reviews, sales, and even sale of public assets. After all, President Letta, you have a good teacher in President Prodi, who with gifts to the privates has also sold the IRI. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] President, have the courage to cut gold pensions, to cut public funding altogether, have the courage to apply the standard costs that our governors of Veneto, Lombardy and Piedmont have incurred; and not only in health, but do so on the whole public administration, including the Ministries, where they do not even apply the Stability Pact. You'll see that you don't need any Cottarelli, or spending reviews, or cutting Provinces. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Follow our proposed constitutional reform adopted in 2005, which you rejected in the 2006 referendum. Remember, because on this you have the short memory, that in that reform there was already the cut of the parliamentarians and the Federal Senate of the Regions. He disappointed us very much today, when he declared the death of the Bicameral for reforms: that could be the only way to make them. Make serious proposals on the labour market, delete the Fornero law and open to flexibility. The problem is not the permanent employment contract (thanks to you in Italy only 17% of the contracts are), but you have to encourage the work/school alternation that has produced excellent results in Germany. And then enough, enough with the contributions to Rome Capital: another 200 million to repay the debts, in the face of the virtuous municipalities of the North! It is enough to refinance the socially useful workers of Palermo, Naples and Calabria. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And enough with the malicious ads: in 2013, until now, there are 42,000 landings; all this thanks to the good and harmful ads on the cancellation of the crime of illegal immigration and the ius solo. Enough amnesties, indults, and empty prisons! Minister Cancellieri: Prisoners do not need to learn to score or to box; they already know how to do it better than all of us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We need certain rules, certain penalties, new prisons and greater security for citizens. On these issues we will do all kinds of battles, both inside and outside Parliament. On the foreign side, another complete disaster: you bowed your head to the fiscal compact and the European constraints. You have allowed Commissioner Olli Rehn to go into the substance of the amendments to the Stability Act. In addition, while Germany reached the record of investment in research and development, for an amount equal to 3% of GDP, you, Mr President, are proud that you have not exceeded 3% of the deficit! This is the reality: they command and we just obey! President Letta, people do not want the euro, they do not want this euro, which has been imposed on us and has been a failure. People want a Europe of peoples, not of nations, a Europe of self-government, a Europe that defends our products and does not accept unfair competition from products such as "Mozzabella" (Mozzabella), "Prosekko" (Prosekko) and "Lyophilisate" (Norwegian) soluble wine. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The worst thing is that you have forgotten not only the poor, not only the businesses and all the Italians in the country, but also our soldiers, our maròs, abandoned in India to their destiny. It is useless for him to be angry with the League: there is no irony, on the contrary: today we have supported on our benches the symbol of those who are sacrificing themselves - the Basque of our Maròs - and we will vote with conviction the distrust of your Government: a Government that has brought Italy into the abyss. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u87	SACCONI (NCD). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the senators of the New Right Centre will vote for your government for three fundamental reasons. The first is based on the conviction that the institutional vacuum resulting from the crisis of the only possible Government would add to the widespread social deprivation, to the traumatic conditions that radically changed the quality of life of many people and many families, a further reason for insecurity and mistrust from unpredictable outcomes. Who like us assumes the basis of every conviction and action the human dimension fails to attribute any virtuous effect to chaos and generalized conflict. No one plays with fire, no one looks for that "so much worse" in which it is precisely the most fragile people who pay the highest prices, and even less able to do so are those who in the past years have had or shared institutional responsibilities. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]] The second reason, complementary to the first, concerns the need to fill the stability of government with urgent and effective decisions in terms above all of greater and better work for the many who do not have it or have it insecure. Of course, work is a consequence of development, but it is also a determining factor on the basis of costs and rules. Beyond the ideological conflict, which has marked the most distant and most recent times, we live in such an emergency that we must share solutions that are empirical and reversible in order to achieve results; and the results are generated by entrepreneurs, that is, by those who ask us to reduce the indirect cost of work, to be able to organize their employees with flexible efficiency, to be able to count on the fact that where things go wrong - in objective or subjective terms - a working relationship can be resolved. I hope that even on the left, today, on the basis of experience, we can give Biagi what is from Biagi and Fornero what is from Fornero. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]] What we have experienced teaches us, as Biagi said, that there is no financial incentive that can compensate for a regulatory disincentive from laws or contracts. That is why, Mr President, we are asking you, encouraged by your new national secretary, to link closely every economy resulting from the intelligent cut in public administration expenditure with the reduction of the tax wedge, starting from that part of the salary that is expressed by business agreements dedicated to greater productivity, but we are also asking you for immediate measures to deregulate fixed term contracts, apprenticeships, ancillary work, the same project collaborations when genuine, and all this, at the same time, starting, as we wish, that Statute for work which is truly translatable in English because it is built on Community law, referring for all the rest to business and individual contracts. To the unemployed, to the unemployed, we must ensure with the regions public and private services that do not leave them alone, useful services if paid as a result and not regardless of what they produce. The third reason for our vote lies in that state reform which must finally overcome the atavistic fragility of our democracy, its decision-making processes, the balance between powers, the relationship between them and society. As Angelino Alfano said, tracing our identity as a part, we who put the person and his social attitude at the centre of everything, we who recognize as a consequence the primacy of society and in it value the infinite forms of community, we believe in the coagulating and relational function of the State. We respect it, even if we want it more essential, more just and more authoritative. We would thus like to make sense of this damn difficult time, making ourselves necessary, all the more all together, virtuous Fathers constituting a Republic better than that designed by our fathers, between a hot war just ceased and a cold war just begun. It is too serious an operation to be put back to the small tactical game or, even worse, to be used as yet another clava against the opponents in a political dialectic already spoiled by many mistrusts. The reasonable method is the one that moves from the political forces that already share the tiring support to the Government in a difficult time to then seek, with patience, a consensus so broad as to approach unanimously. On the merits, we reaffirm our conviction that it is useful to link the form of government and electoral law, ready as we are to share the formula of the mayor of Italy. But reforming the state also means dealing with that twenty-year-old judicial anomaly that international investors consider the primary reason for distrust for our country and that a large part of our society warns as a factor of inhibition to act and to decide. Now there are no alibi left. Now there are at least three emergencies that lead to as many targeted corrections. The European Court of Justice imposes an adequate civil liability of the magistrates, the dramatic prison condition calls for the reform of protective custody, the global scandal of the datagate requires robust filters to the abuse of interceptions. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your statements certainly represent a minimum common denominator of the parliamentary majority which is about to confirm your confidence. I am sure you will understand, however, whether the new Centro-Rextra, which is in the uncomfortable position of sharing today's difficult responsibilities with its natural opponent of tomorrow, asks you for something more: that pact that Mr Alfano has called "Italy 2014" to make of the year that is about to begin a time full of decisions useful to today's society and that of tomorrow in the sign of the priorities indicated. To those who turn to us the daily provocation of the relationship of force, or the presumption of willingness to swallow everything in order to buy time, we reaffirm, on the one hand, our absolute unwillingness to compromise on ethical principles, for which a legislative moratorium would be appropriate, and on the other, we relaunch the reasons for a loyal collaboration, founded not on the minimum, but on the maximum common denominator. We can do it. We have to do it. [[Applause from the NCD groups, and PI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u90	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, Mr Letta, ladies and gentlemen, what we are witnessing today is a forced accompaniment of the Government in Parliament imposed by the President of the Republic. It has not been said, but it is clear to everyone. It is a useless and squalid walkway on the stage of the Chambers for the sole purpose of deceiving public opinion by making it believe that there is a semblance of stability, in short, that everything is fine. I have ten minutes, Mr President, but there are too many because there are already too many times when we have stood up in this House to ask you the same, identical thing: pull the plug of an executive who has been dragging tirelessly for months without concluding anything and say goodbye to a government that, in order not to throw its back, prefers to make an entire country die of insidy. Tell us, Mr President, what agenda did you propose today? The one of Alfano with his thirty shavers that keeps you in balance, or maybe keeps it by the steel balls? Or Renzi's. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] who, after the baptism of the primaries, decided to clothe the new anointed with the Lord? [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u91	Colleagues, please, everyone sit in their seats.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u92	TAVERNA (M5S). Ours, in fact, is the country of the agendas of dreams that never come true, while the real agendas, the red ones, disappear mysteriously leaving behind them puzzles and nightmares without end. Every day all you do is repeat the usual anti-politics chant. Then let us stop for a moment and reflect: who wants to rape the Constitution by circumventing the protections of Article 138? You! Who's fighting with all his strength to defend her? It's us! Who says they want to reduce the costs of the policy and then pocket the refunds? You! Who, on the other hand, respects the outcome of the referendum and returns EUR 42 million? Us! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Who has done nothing in the last eight years to correct a clearly unconstitutional law? It's you! And who forced the Constitutional Court to become the crutch of a Republic that you debased and ridiculed? You, you and again! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Well, yes. Because you are the anti-politics! You're the anti-right and you're the anti-constitutional, gentlemen! This pseudo-Government was born thanks to the support of the Brancaleone army of the broad understandings put together with the flattery and threats of the President of the Republic, increasingly lowered in the double robes of political leader or referee of the State, depending on the needs. The majority shareholder has always been the Democratic Party which, in the meantime, has arrived at the third secretary - and I say third - since the beginning of the legislature. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] Will it be a good time? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's hope not, for this country. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u93	Colleagues, if you go on like this I send out so many that it will be difficult to vote for the government. [[Live applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and the Senators Gentile and Rizzotti.]] No applause, because you don't have to. Please continue, Senator Taverna. [[Senator Mirabelli's reactionary comments.]] I'm officially calling you to order, Senator Mirabelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u94	The PD, I said, along with its members of Civic Choice, but above all with the great contribution of the People of Freedom so involved in the ornithological feud between hawks and doves that we now have to deal with its derivatives: New Centrorightstra and Forza Italia, friends-enemies all to discover, with a wink of an eye at Grandi Autonomie and Liberty that, when needed, a hand never denies it. I like to stress the schizophrenia of this policy. But who voted for LAGs in the polls of the last elections? Have any of you seen a program or a list with that name? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] More than a Group looks like a tollgate: from time to time a group of four senators arrives from the PdL, then another one starts again in the direction of NCD and finally comes a third fresh day by the reborn Forza Italia. In short, everything in order to save at any cost this very important partnership from the dubious identity. You are a magnificent example of consistency! Now I would like to remind you of a few words you said on 29 April, President Letta: " (...) you must recover decency, sobriety, scrupulousness, sense of honor and service." What sense do these words have with you now? What remains after the Humanitarian phone calls of the Minister of Justice to Ligresti? Or after the vile deportation into a dictatorial regime of a woman and her six-year-old girl? Or after the warranty notice for corruption to Undersecretary De Luca? But how low do you still have to fall before you have a regurgitation of pride and leave alone? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Believe me, President Letta, if it weren't so painful the situation we're experiencing, I'd almost feel sorry for you. It's been just over two months and we were here that time the usual magician managed to extract yet another rabbit from the cylinder. And she was right there, julivo and smiling, while she secretly praised - but there are televisions - a criminal, a tax evader, a final convicted and called him "great": "great", President Letta. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So, avoid the theater when, looking this way, we share with Forza Italia, because we know very well that the Government PD and PdL are his son and of these broad understandings. At least leave us out of this. Same scene, same place, almost the same cast of Government (you have slightly remanipulated). I wonder if the addiction to TV programmes, which seems to have drugged a large part of the Italian people, is not something that you propose in this Parliament, dragging us into a great reality show, in which nothing that appears corresponds to reality. And what does today's debate represent? You want to hide behind yet another accident to the detriment of the Italian citizens, in order to collect a small trust, voted by spreading a new glue on your armchairs. I would like to remind you of the meaning of the word "trust": in Italian, it means "an optimistic feeling of expectation" towards something or someone" based on "signs" or certain or very probable arguments. Well, on the feeling of expectation it is nothing to complain about: our country is eternally awaiting structural reforms. As for optimism, let us let the facts speak and not chatter. From the economic point of view - with respect to its indicators, I now tell you our indicators - the objective data of the work produced by this Government are not only negative: they are disconcerting. You have said several times today that this Commission has put an end to the economic crisis. How, then, is it possible that public debt has grown in the second quarter of this year by 3 percentage points and continues to grow? How is it possible that the number of employees in the third quarter has fallen further by 2.3%? We are talking about 522,000 jobs lost, especially in the Mezzogiorno, where we have even a minus 5.4%. The tax burden in Italy is 44 per cent of GDP in 2012, rising compared to 42.5 per cent of the previous year (plus 1.5 per cent). You ask us for a few more months of trust. We ask you for just one minute, President Letta: one minute of shame. Let us be ashamed, President Letta, because on 29 April, during your baptism of fire, you announced in this House a series of endless intentions and objectives: and they are all, so far, inexorably, dramatically failed! The reduction in labour taxes (14 euros per month you managed to obtain) failed; the measures in support of the new recruits failed; the payments of public debt failed; the waiver of the increase in VAT failed (it is 22%: do you remember the first theater of confidence? Whose fault is that? It is nobody's if VAT in Italy is 22%; the increase in the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises has failed; the fight against corruption has failed; the abolition of the IMU has failed. By next Monday, the balance 2013 awaits 15 million Italians and 700,000 companies, and will be more expensive than that of June! The speed of the processes has failed; the help to the able and deserving students has failed; the innovation, the research and the development has failed; the bureaucratic simplifications have failed; the fight against the hydrogeological failure has failed [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And we still mourn the dead of Sardinia and we would not want to mourn more deaths, President Letta! The guaranteed minimum income has failed; the improvement of public transport has failed; public funding of parties has failed. In fact, the 47 million was not enough: you invented the primary for 2 euros each, so you put another 6 million in cash. [[Applause from the M5S Group. He lives protests from the PD Group.]] They paid. The fight against evasion has failed; the reform of bicameralism has failed; the abolition of the Provinces has failed; the new electoral law has failed: indeed, the new law has not yet left, but it will fail, there are good conditions for believing it; the reduction of the costs of politics has failed. I mean, nothing at all. Nothing, I daresay. Look out at the window, please, and you will see a country destroyed, which you still pretend to govern, in which all social categories are gathering under the Italian flag to demand a total change of a ruling class that has failed. How much despair has yet to rise from the voices of farmers, workers, transporters, craftsmen, small businessmen and communities? How much voice, before you realize that an old-born media character is not enough to cover the smell of corruption, immobility and parasitism of recent decades? Or perhaps you just want the suffering of the people to turn into anger, so you can disguise the victims as executioners and the real executioners as victims.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u95	Conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u96	TAVERNA (M5S). I'm almost done. Tell the truth to the Italian citizens who are watching you: today's confidence you ask for it yourself, in yet another shameful attempt to self-legitimize yourself. While here you congratulate on having reached the unholy compromises you call programs, from the squares, from the shops, from the houses an entire country is telling you that it no longer has the time and the strength to bear your empty promises. He's running out of time because there's no more time! President Letta, the time we give you and your government is really one minute: one minute of shame. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]] VOICES FROM THE FI-PdL GROUP XVII. Boo!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u97	Colleagues, we allow everyone's speeches. If you ask for respect, you must also give it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u100	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if there were President Grasso I would turn to him to thank him sincerely for what he said just over a year and a half ago. He said: "I would give a special prize to Silvio Berlusconi and his Government for the fight against the Mafia; he introduced laws" - he always said Grasso - "that allowed us to seize in three years many assets to the Mafia. And even if he added that on other measures we are still waiting for it, well, if it were present, I would thank him anyway, because he legitimately judged, in his role as magistrate and national prosecutor anti-mafia, the effects of the decisions and interventions of our Government. Then, however, on Sunday I heard about RAI, public service, the chief prosecutor of Caltanisetta, who said, literally: With the birth of the New Right Centre of Angelino Alfano, the Mafia lacks a political axis of reference. Mr Calderoli, I would like to say to you: what are these words? Is there not to be at least perplexed by what we have heard? Or maybe it's worth getting scared? And which one is the judiciary we're supposed to be relying on? I also say this to you, President Letta, who comes today to ask for renewed confidence, without even mentioning the reform of justice, and after a very serious fact, which happened in this very Chamber on 27 November, when a different political majority compared to today's one violated all the laws, beginning with those fundamental ones of freedom and democracy, voting the decadence from the Senate of the leader of Forza Italia and the center-right, Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] Colleagues of the Democratic Party, it is the only way you have found to get rid of the political opponent that you have never managed to defeat politically. What was determined that day is a vulnus to democracy, an unsound institutional issue that will remain in the consciences of all senators. And it is only the last of a long series of violations of the rules of democracy. I just want to remember three more. The first, in the early 1990s, resulted in the selective destruction of some political forces by judicial means. Since then the history of Italian politics has flowed on two parallel lines: on the one hand the free choice of voters, on the other the work of non-democratic powers to overthrow and overturn the will of citizens. The second in 1994, when the judiciary and the Head of State succeeded in overthrowing the Berlusconi Government, replacing it with the first technical government of republican history, never voted by anyone: the Dini Government; and it is worth remembering here that the process that followed that warranty notice saw Berlusconi acquitted in all degrees of judgment. It happened for the third time in 2011, when another Berlusconi Government, chosen by the citizens but weakened by the maneuvers of the palace, was forced to resign from an even more inconsistent and even more fierce judicial campaign than those of the past to be replaced, once again without any election, by a technical government: that of our colleague, Senator Monti. What do you want to call all this, if you don't like the definition "state coup"? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] Let's come to us. President Letta, you are here today, before the Senate, before the citizens, and we acknowledge the merit, together with the Head of State, of having listened to our appeal, of having accepted, of having realized that not everything has remained unchanged, and we thank you for that. Today we are called to vote for the confidence of this Government, a Government that we have helped to establish with difficulty, with humility, despite the stubbornness with which the Democratic Party, the non-winning party in the elections, has attempted to the last an alliance with the 5 Star Movement. Its government, President Letta, did not forget it, it was born because Berlusconi wanted it, who put the interest of the country in front of the interests of the party, allowing a party to swindle (yours), after having phagocited yet another secretary, to establish a government under the name of its own leading exponent: you, President Letta. Unfortunately, PD was completely immature for its broad understanding, for that agreement between responsible political forces that already in other European countries helped the economy to recover and the citizens to regain confidence. Those broad understandings were the result of an agreement, in which we affirmed three fundamental principles: no house tax, no increase in VAT, a radical change in the management of Equitalia. But of all this the country has seen nothing! Forza Italia has withdrawn its confidence because its Government has betrayed that emergency pact in the name of which it was born; a pact of national pacification, but also a pact of reforms, for growth and development. Colleagues of the New Right Center, you wanted the division, painful for us and, I hope, also for you. You wanted it in the name of governance, stability, the good of the country; you agreed to create a new majority of government, a majority alien to our history, our ideas, ours, until recently, common feeling. And you didn't notice that today the government's agenda is one party, the Democratic Party; one secretary, Matteo Renzi, who comes to say: I'll take care of the reforms. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] President Letta made this clear to you: you are part of a smaller but more cohesive majority. 20.56) (Romans Paul followed). In the face of twenty years spent together, side by side; twenty years of victories, of government, of opposition. And now you are witnessing, breathlessly, the contemptuous judgments expressed against our governments, the liquidation of those twenty years spent together. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] And now you are foreigners in foreign land. You have happened - excuse me - by mistake in a left-wing government. President Letta, our vote is not a vote against you. There was a time when we had confidence in his words, but today we note that you are not able to give any response to a country to its exhaustion. Because we certainly cannot believe that the vague and general words of your speech, Mr President, are the answers that Italy needs. You said to the House this morning, and you repeated it a while ago here in the Senate: "We will continue to bring down the debt" and again: "We will re-launch public investment" while you spoke of growth of 1% next year and 2 percent in 2015. But how? With what money? With what policies? Not even a word about the collapse of consumption, unemployment, access to credit for companies, the debt of public administrations, organic reform of justice. Is this your recipe? "Stop teasing the citizens. The government on the real issues of Italians has not done much. And we saw it on the IMU. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] My colleagues applaud, but these are not my words: they are those of the new PD secretary, Matteo Renzi. And why should we trust this Government if that is the judgment of its majority shareholder? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] What is happening these days, Mr President, the so-called forklift revolt, is a signal that should not be underestimated. We do not like the protests that result in violence, but we cannot ignore the reasons for them. What we see is the portrait of a country in disarray, of a country run by uncontrolled rebellious waves that arise from the desperation of the citizens. We have only one road ahead, clear and clear. The decision of the Council, on which there would be a lot to say and probably also to reflect, has however the unquestionable merit of having indicated it: a new electoral law expression and agreement of all the political forces present in Parliament; a law that respects bipolarism; a law that respects the will of voters. And then, right after, the election. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] President Letta, this government is unable to solve the problems of the country. This government doesn't deserve our trust. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u103	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, before I begin my speech, allow me to apologise to Senator Taverna: I am not able to follow her in her language, in her arguments and in her tones; I will therefore speak another language. I tell you now, President Letta, that the Senators of the Democratic Party will vote for trust, having clearly defined the conditions of our country and the harshness of the work that awaits you and your ministers. Between our difficulties and our dangers, however, we must be able to see the anxieties, fears and aspirations that move in the depths of our society and we must be able to distinguish them from violence and intolerance. We must be able to grasp the first signs of change, knowing that today the holding of Italian society is linked to the popular demand for a profound renewal of our institutions. And if we want to overcome the serious crisis of confidence, we cannot remain inert, Mr President, in the face of the millions of women and men who face social insecurity, unemployment and the loss of any prospect for the future with dignity every day. Today, the welfare that supports young people without work weighs largely on the shoulders of families and Parliament cannot have peace until it has been able to give them back a prospect of safety and well-being. You, President Letta, can do much to restore hope to a national community in great ferment and much can do also Matteo Renzi, new secretary of the Democratic Party, to whom we today wish good work for the good of Italy. We underline the great civil sign of a vote with a very large majority and of primary elections in which 3 million Italians participated. This is a very serious way, President, to implement Article 49 of the Constitution. We are now witnessing a change not only in numbers but also in the politics of the majority. Two new groups were born from the PdL and, just now, Senator Romani explicitly recalled that only for reasons related to the parliamentary destiny of their father master... [[Protests from the FI Group - PdL XVII]] AMORUSO (FI-PdL XVII). We have no masters. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let Senator Zanda speak. ZANDA (PD). ...Forza Italia has not only decided to oppose the Government. Other than the immaturity of PD, Senator Romani. The winks of the eye, not to legitimate protest, but to those who move to destroy, tell a lot about the new strategy of this right-right Italian. And also the insults you shout in Parliament say a lot, Senators of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Faced with a choice so far from the national interest, the New Right Center has decided to continue to support the Government. Thus, the destinies of two forces have separated, one of which aspires to the European centre-right and the other pushes towards exasperated forms of destructive populism. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] ALBERTI CASELLATI (FI-PdL XVII). Look at your own business! Look in your house! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If anyone doesn't want to vote, say so openly. [[Protests from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] Quiet! FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). What a silence! What, are we at school? ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I will then ask you to make up for the time I am wasting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). This process has greatly expanded the responsibilities of the Democratic Party, which increasingly, by parliamentary weight, plays a central role in the majority of government. In recent weeks, our civil and political commitment has led to numerous squadrista violence against many of our fora, sections and circles. To those who use violence against the Democratic Party we say that they do not dream of stopping us. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Fravezzi]] Our party comes from stories and cultures that have made Italy grow. We listen to those who peacefully represent their reasons, but we have never succumbed to violence, either verbal or physical. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] Thank you very much, President Letta, to the police forces, who in these days have defended legality and have rejected the incitements that have turned to them the leader of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups.]] President Letta stressed the need for realistic reform procedures to be put in place, but not their programme. For some reforms, first of all the reduction in the number of parliamentarians and the end of the perfect bicameralism, the urgency is absolute. There is a broad consensus on reducing the number of Members. The redevelopment of the role, mandate and composition of the Senate is an equally pressing necessity, to which all Senators of the Democratic Party will collaborate on the front line. But we know it's not enough. The renewal of the institutions will not be complete without new rules on parties and their internal democracy, without serious rules on conflicts of interest and the vote of exchange, without new parliamentary regulations and, above all, without a new electoral law, which is the cornerstone of democracy. On the electoral law, we know the political difficulties that, despite the efforts of those who have worked on it, have so far prevented the Senate from reaching a widely shared solution. The follow-up of the process will be decided by the presidencies of the Chamber and Senate, with the sole aim of arriving immediately at a new text that guarantees representativeness and governability. The results of the 1993 referendum and the proposals of the Democratic Party push us to ask for a majority system that leads to bipolarism and guarantees Italy a Government that can govern. For this purpose it is not important that the law be examined first in the House or before in the Senate; instead, we need an agreement of the two branches of Parliament, since in our system the approval of a single Chamber is not enough. The Senators of the Democratic Party, President Letta, renew her confidence not only for her esteem, but in the belief that her Government can give effective responses to the crisis. We very much liked the line you have set for Europe. The first objective must be to seek a broad European sharing on development policies. Italy has fulfilled its commitments and has the right to ask for a loosening of what has been called the rigorist dogma. From Brussels we would like to hear, at least on some occasions, doubts as to how the economic emergency was managed there. The ineffective responses to the crisis have not only impoverished the peoples of Europe, but also the ideal of a united Europe: you have mentioned it, Mr President. The effects of the crisis are dangerously threatening the foundations of the single currency and, at a deeper level, that solidarity between European citizens without which Europe is not and will not be. You talked about ten-year goals. Well, Italy must force the great theme of the European government of the economy, because only by putting together and composing the different interests will we find the solution that we need. We must keep the accounts in order, as Germany asks us, but we must also get those growth policies that absolutely need countries in difficulty, starting with Italy. If growth cannot be promoted by States, which are forced by financial rigour, only Europe and the eurozone will have the strength to promote the use of adequate financial resources, including through the use of international markets. In the last few days we have seen a tough debate on the second instalment of the IMU. Some hundreds of millions of euros were at stake, on which a campaign was built that made us forget that in 2013 Italian families did not pay the IMU on the first house. Well, let's compare those few hundreds of millions with the 32 billion VAT evasion and the 120 billion of the total annual evasion; then let's compare them with the 60 billion of corruption and the area of the submerged, estimated at more than 250 billion. These figures, President Letta, are our obsession. Only the victory over tax evasion and corruption can save us from the war between the poor that unleashes at every emergency, at every sudden expense, when we have to honor a debt. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, one last remark. Over the past two centuries, the history of freedom and development has taught us that investment in education and research has been the main tools of economic growth and civil development in society. This mechanism still works. Italy has been the cradle of knowledge in very different fields, from politics to experimental science, from the right to physics and chemistry. Our task is to aim for the rebirth of the country by investing in culture, education and research to relocate us to the place that is due to us and from which the last decades of cultural degradation have alienated us, immersively, because our schools and universities continue to churn out young people who make brilliant careers abroad and, if they cannot contribute to the welfare of their country, it is not because of their responsibility, but of our bad politics. Disinterest in research and education is sometimes accompanied by facts that put us out of the developed world. The recent and serious episode of Stamina is linked to the abuse and manipulation of patients and relatives with illusory promises and unverified and potentially dangerous treatments that, in fact, protect or benefit partisan interests. It is the absence of investment in research and events such as that of Stamina that push young people to go abroad in fear of seeing their skills not recognized or appreciated. I shall conclude with a request, Mr Letta, which concerns a subject that is dear to you. Italy has very limited resources and it is therefore necessary to administer them wisely and prudently. But in crises it is more necessary than ever to know how to look to the future: to devote a fair share of our resources to scientific research, school and culture is certainly the most forward-looking choice that a democratic parliament and government can make. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u105	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u106	DAVICO (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain the choice that leads me today to vote in dissent from my Group. President Letta, I have listened carefully to you; I know that my choice is difficult and also important. My vote is to help give confidence to a project of possible reforms (let's call them so), those reforms in the name of which at the time I chose to engage in politics, but also to restore confidence to those out there who are desperately trying to get us a message. A message that must go beyond the "all at home," because when the institutions were to go then really all at home who would take care of the fragile condition of our communities and the weakest among us? [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Dalla Zuanna and Di Biagio]] I agree with you and it is also part of my culture: no one should be left alone. For this reason, I believe [[. (Protests from the LN-Aut Group]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Take the North League symbol off your jacket! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me talk. That is not a good example of democracy. Please, Senator Davico. DAVICO (LN-Aut). Thank you, Mr President. For this reason, in this particular, difficult historical moment, I believe that a minimum of continuity and stability must be ensured by those who can do so, that is, also by us. In fact, I think that every solution for a better country must and can start from here, from these classrooms, and not from other parts or with other more agricultural instruments. President Letta, what is ahead of us today is an agenda that has the contingency times, but we all have the contingency times here, and I hope that this troubled country can be peaceful and on the verge of anarchy, disorder, violence, in the growing sense of the absence of future prospects. His promise to attack unemployment responds to a requirement that I feel every day among my people, in that martyred Piedmont and not only there. In my opinion, it is a good sign that we do not remain deaf and inert in the face of the demands of citizens and entrepreneurs who are making calls which are now far more than alarming. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. DAVICO (LN-Aut). Just a few seconds, ma'am. I agree with his promise to inject new resources through private capital, to relaunch domestic production and exports in order to involve the largest number of companies in the most suffering sectors. His commitment not to repeat mistakes already made in the past and to formally mark a discontinuity compared to yesterday is a good road for what we urgently need: to look ahead and overcome the impasse. The time of ideological disputes must be passed; uncertainty must no longer dwell here; any hesitation today would risk throwing the country into chaos tomorrow. The confidence that the agreement today is to be considered as a choice of responsibility on the individual issues that you propose and I reserve the right to make my own assessments on the basis of the positive use that such confidence will make and the results that we will all have before us. [[Protests from the LN-Aut Group.]] COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Time! Time! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. DAVICO (LN-Aut). I therefore reserve the right to decide whether to confirm it as early as 23 December when voting on the draft stability law. [[Applause from the PD, NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE), PI and SCMpI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u108	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u109	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, the last speech has obviously also broken down on me, so I will not take part in the vote. We are not in the Garden of Olives, but I offer the 30 denarii gladly to the foundation of those who sell. [[Senator Calderoli shows Senator Davico some bills. Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It's no coincidence who looks like him gets caught!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u110	Pursuant to Rule 161 of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote on motion for resolution No 1 by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romano, Zeller, Susta and Nencini, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. Those who are in favour will say yes; those who are against will say no; those who want to abstain will respond accordingly. (Some Senators of the LN-Aut Group are voicing against Senator Davico.) Senator Commissioner Malan, will you step in, please? You too, Senator Commissioner De Poli, please intervene. I think we cannot deny the right to dissent. [[Live comments from the LN-Aut Group. Senators from the LN-Aut Group are approaching Senator Davico.]] I ask the Senators Quaestors to bring the order back to the House. (Senators Questori De Poli and Malan climb between the benches of the LN-Aut Group and approach Senator Davico). MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak personally. President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mirabelli, personal interventions can be carried out at the end of the session. [[Long-lived comments by Senator Mirabelli, who again asks to intervene. Comments from the PD Group.]] If this is a personal matter, you can speak at the end of the sitting. MIRABELLI (PD). I was first called to order... president. We must proceed to the vote. [[Comments from LN-Aut, PD, FI-PdL XVII and NCD Groups.]] Shall we move on, or shall I suspend the session? I would remind you that every senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote under the Presidency. In view of the accident, Senator Fedeli will vote first. I invite the Senator Secretary to register his vote. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom he will begin to call her. (The name of Senator Sacconi is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal starting with Senator Sacconi. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, appealed. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Nugello, Azzollini Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bilardi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capaccione, Cardinals, Carini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, D'Alì, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Monte, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biaara Elena, Filippino, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fattorini, Favero, Fevero, Filippino, Filippino, Filippino, Di Giorgi, Di Giorgi, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe The senators: Airola, Alberti Casellati, Alicata, Amoruso, Aracri, Arrigoni Barani, Barozzi, Bencini, Bernini, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bisinella, Bitonci, Blondo, Bocchino, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Consiglio, Conti, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Anna, De Crisofaro, De Petris, De Pietro, De Siano, Divina, Donno Endrizzi Falanga, Fazzone, Floris, Fucksia Gaetti, Gasparri, Ghedini Niccolò, Giarrusso, Donno Girbizzi Falanga, Fazzone, Fazzone, Fucksia Gaetti PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u111	I declare the result of the roll-call vote on motion for resolution No 1 by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Romano, Zeller, Susta and Nencini, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 301 Senators voting 300 Majority 151 Favourites 173 Contrars 127]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD, PI and NCD groups.]] The motion for a resolution No 2 is therefore precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u112	I inform you that the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity has communicated that, pursuant to article 19, fourth paragraph, of the Rules of the Senate, has verified in the session of 11 December 2013 the existence of the titles indicated in the presidential decree, on 30 August 2013, appointing Senator for life, pursuant to article 59, second paragraph, of the Constitution, Master Claudio Abbado and architect Renzo Piano, for having illustrated the Homeland with very high merits in the artistic and social field, and Professor Elena Cattaneo and Professor Carlo Rubbia, for having illustrated the Homeland with very high merits in the scientific and social field. I acknowledge the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity of this communication and I hereby declare the appointment of Senator Claudio Abbado, Professor Elena Cattaneo, Architect Renzo Piano and Professor Carlo Rubbia validated. [[Applause from the PD and NCD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u113	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-150.ana.u114	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 12 December, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22.06 a.m.
