ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.06 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mussolini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 8 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure (at 10:09 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u6	ROMANI Paolo (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the sense of responsibility of some political forces represented in this Parliament for many years has allowed the birth in Italy of an unprecedented experiment for our country: a Government of broad understanding. We are not yet at the culture of the coalition evoked by several parties as the only political solution to the serious needs of the country, but certainly a major step forward has been taken, despite the backwardness of some to overcome preconceptions and ancient resistances. The election of President Napolitano to Head of State was a first significant episode of this new culture, and perhaps we missed an important opportunity, previously, for the elections of the institutional summits of the two branches of Parliament. The appointment to President Letta represented that change of direction, cultural and political, that President Napolitano illustrated in his speech of settlement, bringing the parties back to that institutional and political responsibility that President Berlusconi has manifested without delay, already in the aftermath of the results of the elections: a country divided into three sides, with equal dignity and political value; an electoral law designed for a perfect bipolarism, which showed all its defects when the protest materialized in a new lineup that, perhaps, has not yet defined its role in the institutions and that has remained, for what is given to see, too tied to the concepts and language of the protest. This is what happened in the Palace: no subversion of bipolarism, the correct and dialectic opposition between ideas, proposals, worldviews of two genuinely alternative political groups, only the verification that no political force - certainly not the PD - despite having obtained the majority in the House, would have been able to govern the country alone, as this needs, deserves, demands. Only mature political forces, aware of their differences but also of the possible points in common, can, if necessary, build a large coalition as on more than one occasion happened in Germany between SPD and CDU. Outside the Palace, however, there has been no reversal of course, language has not lost the hardest elements of a harsh electoral campaign: indeed, if possible, it has increased the insults, violence and intolerances unworthy of a republican democracy like ours. "Abandon yourselves", "you are dead walking" are the expressions that, together with other more vulgar and unpronounceable here, have accompanied in these weeks the attempt of rationalization that I have just described briefly. A dialectical degradation that perhaps conceals conceptual pettyness and cultural poverty. Then there are the facts that happened, the tips of the iceberg of this process of society's decomposition and fracture in the proper relationship between citizens-electors, holders of popular sovereignty, and their representatives. I mention only a few episodes in which respect for the law and the inviolable principles of democracy have been publicly violated: the personal and racist attack on Minister Kyenge; the demonstrations in Montecitorio in favor of Rodotà and against Napolitano and those who had elected him, who claimed to demonstrate, to the sound of screams and threats, how 4,000 - those who voted Rodotà to the "quirinaries" - counted more than 20 million, the voters of the political forces that shared the election of the new Head of State. I continue with Minister Dario Franceschini, who was reached at the restaurant by a handful of scalmanati who insult him for not having voted Rodotà, Deputy Minister Stefano Fassina, attacked for the same reason, and Mrs Renata Polverini, assaulted in a restaurant by a group of people with an insulting banner. On 11 May, last Saturday, something more serious happened in Brescia. Brescia is close to the municipal elections and the People of Freedom had decided to support their candidate, with a demonstration in the square: a joyful event, made of music, flags and political commitment of our militants and voters, in which President Berlusconi decided to participate personally. A management, I must say, at least sudden of public security allowed a gazebo of militants of the 5 Star Movement that legitimately supported its candidate to mayor to be found in the narrow passage to the square of the manifestation of the PdL. The friction between the two groups of militants was at that point inevitable. But how many times in the past did the gazebo of different parties coexist in the same square? However, an unprecedented fact happened in Brescia: a short circuit occurred at the welding between the militants of the 5 Star Movement, and other political forces present in this House, and the representatives of the social centers. Talking about contestation is a pale euphemism. The militants and voters of the PdL in the square were physically assaulted, offended and delighted. Congressmen and Senators of the PdL have been covered with insults, assaults, hard-won defenses from law enforcement. There were wounded. Many of our militants, especially the older people, got scared and returned to the buses without participating in the demonstration. President Grasso, why don't you make your voice heard? Why, Mr President, does it not make your firm condemnation of these incidents of civilisation feel high? Why don't you defend the members of this House? Those who are talking to you and some of my colleagues in this House have had a bad afternoon. Representative democracy has lost an opportunity; we have all felt a little more alone. We ask you for a gesture that demonstrates your absolute disapproval of behaviors that tend to obscure a voice of the country, a responsible voice and protagonist of the commitment of government: a voice that speaks for 10 million citizens. You represent one of the highest institutions in this country; you come from an experience of the legality of this Republic, of our democracy: you cannot fail, President, to defend it. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u9	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I listened carefully to Senator Romani's speech and appreciated the tone in which he made his arguments; political arguments, rather than the progress of our work. It has dealt with a very serious fundamental issue, which concerns the relationship between politics and citizens. It's a very serious matter. Senator Romani, I would have many arguments to submit to you on the reasons why the city of Brescia last weekend experienced moments of tension. I could remind you with solid arguments of the origin of those tensions that even reflected on the government's work. You and I, Senator Romani, have voted for this Government, and it has been a vote on both sides consciously, due to the state of necessity in which our country is located. I think it is you that I have an interest in the exclusion of violence from the country; that the country finds a civil way of confronting itself. I think that today in Italy there are very large issues on which we Members of Parliament must demonstrate, day after day, hour after hour, act after act, that we have regained the sense of democracy. I think that the rule of law and the separation of powers are among these issues, among the principles that should and must guide us. I think that these two principles, which are the basis of all democracies and democratic systems, must guide us, and must also guide our political initiatives. I think that respect for the judiciary is a duty for the whole country, but it is a primary duty for us who sit in Parliament. I think that this is a matter of rare importance and I would say that it is decisive in order to be able to face that path of social peace to which you referred in your speech. And I also think - I thought about it as you spoke - that there is a third condition that can help (and can help a lot) the conduct of our parliamentary work but also, more generally, the coexistence of the country, which can give a sense of true sharing in responsibility: I think that a lot of truth is needed. Yes, we need a lot of truth. Look, I don't want to evade the issue you mentioned about the finale, Senator Romani. In Italy there exists, and it is strong, and it is serious, a problem of justice and there is also a serious problem of relations between politics and justice. But I want to tell you that we must be able to assume our responsibilities. If there is a problem of justice, this also exists for the - let us call it this - bad quality of the laws for which we parliamentarians have all the responsibility. If there is a problem of justice, this also exists because of the absolute scarcity of resources which we Members of Parliament have provided for Italian justice and this is another responsibility of ours. But we have yet another, more serious one, for which not only the account that each of us makes with our own conscience is sufficient. We know that too much of the policy of recent decades has not respected the law. There is a political-justice knot and it is up to us to cut a substantial part of this knot, but we can only cut it in one way: by making politics in compliance with the law. Unfortunately, we know that at all levels, in the national Parliament, in the regional councils, in the places of public administration, too often politicians, even important, have had behaviours that are not in conformity with the law. We must take responsibility for this when we talk about the crisis between politics and the judiciary. Let me close with an exhortation. Let us leave the Presidents of the House and the Senate out of these matters. We have given them a great responsibility that they are exercising with honor and impartiality. Let's leave them out. Let them exercise their role according to the sense of prudence and objectivity that must guide them and that we want them to lead. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, SCpI, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u12	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, the words of Senator Romani, and also those of Senator Zanda who followed, certainly introduce very important elements of reflection for all of us. The main theme, also with respect to the episodes that have been remembered, but which are not born today, is to reconstruct in this country the reasons for a coexistence based on mutual respect, which has often too much escaped all of us. At this moment in which we have competed - we too have done so - to give life to a Government so to speak exceptional, which responds to an exceptional situation, just as exceptional must be the sense of responsibility of all to understand that we must remove the great opportunities for confrontation that have been there in recent years, thus reconstruct the reasons for coexistence and put at the centre the objective of building a democracy of the alternation in which we respect each other, recognize each other, also as adversaries. This does not happen through the annulment of the distinctions or the renunciation, even in this period of coexistence in a difficult Government, to affirm one's identity, to pursue one's strategic objectives, to affirm one's own values. Precisely the reference to German experience should teach us how SPD and CDU in those years have certainly not renounced the cornerstones of their political line. What we have not metabolized in recent years is to recognize each other in our deep legitimacy. After all, Civic Choice was also born for this, it was also born from people who belonged to those political formations that did not recognize themselves in that language and in that way of being. But we need to think about another aspect. I am referring to the new relationship with those outside this majority agreement. We must show them that we are not a priori excluding the reasons behind their political proposal. We need to understand the reasons for the protest that generated a certain vote. We must take responsibility for the tensions in the country and maintain a strong dialogue in Parliament and, if possible, also in society. Even those who have not recognized themselves in this majority, and especially those who are born of a profound social protest, must be able to recognize themselves in a new method of work, a method based on the reconstruction of the reasons for being together in this House, albeit in differentiated positions of majority and minority. This is the greatest contribution we can make to overcoming the situation in which we live. Then there will be the legislative measures and the profound reforms that we will have to implement from the institutional and constitutional point of view and in the justice in order to be able to give a turning point to this country. Italy, however, cannot start from the consideration that every action carried out by bodies of the State, beginning with the judiciary, is against someone or has secondary objectives. No. We must restore the cornerstones - as Senator Zanda said - of liberal democracy - on which we all agree, because we share the common heritage of our Constitution - and reason on how to live together in this exceptional moment within an exceptional majority which, however, is at the service of the country, to ferry it out of a moral emergency, even before political and social, without forgetting of course the social one, which must indeed be at the centre of our agenda. Therefore, it is right to call for respect, such as the call for solidarity of the institutions towards situations which have not been respectful of the right of each one to manifest freely and which, above all, tend once again to deny the right to the existence of political parties or to their legitimacy; we must all take charge of this. We need to get through this. It will not be easy, but majority solidarity and a new relationship with opposition, much more constructive within the parliamentary committees and also in civil society, will help to do so. At least on this, we will keep our commitment. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u15	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to what Senator Romani said, and I thank Senator Zanda for his presentation. It is true that as a 5 Star Movement we were called into question for what happened in Brescia. Honestly, however, as a Movement we felt challenged by the presence, in particular, of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Alfano, who, in some way, with his presence within that demonstration which was to be legitimately an electoral rally, has endorsed the violent and irrogant positions of Senator Berlusconi with regard to the work of the Italian magistrates. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] Senator Berlusconi never hesitates to raise a censor of the actions of our judges, which divides into impartial and fatious, not according to the respect of the correct application of the rules imposed by our codes and our laws, but according to the outcome favorable to him or not of the procedures in which he is involved. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Proposals and reflections on a very sensitive issue such as the reform of justice, which should suggest the utmost caution and prudence, as is required, so that there is good cooperation within this Parliament, both in the majority and in the opposition, are introduced in menacing tones, degraded to the instruments of a desired retaliation against those who guarantee the maintenance of social peace. I must say - it has not been mentioned, but I personally want to do so - that I am bitter, as I believe most of my Group, for the quotation, in my opinion absolutely inappropriate, concerning the Tortora affair: a judicial case that has nothing in common with the current proceedings in which Senator Berlusconi is involved. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] As the daughters of the late Tortora recalled, improperly exploit the history of a man who has always manifested the deepest respect for the work of judges and institutions in general, resigning - resigning, I repeat - [[Applause from the M5S Group]] as a Member of the European Parliament in order to defend himself as any citizen (probably, Senator Berlusconi removed this aspect) is nothing more than an offense to his memory. Not only as a Senator of the 5 Star Movement, because we care to be and always remain citizens of the Republic, I ask Minister Alfano how he plans to reconcile the duties imposed on him by his office with his political choice to publicly endorse with his participation positions that call into question the autonomy and independence of members of the judiciary, unequivocally sanctioned by Article 104 of the Constitution. Or is it meant to be believed that this is not an institutional conflict, as Senator Zanda has already said? To be loyal to your country you must, first of all, accept the laws without elusively evading the judgment of the judiciary and then respect the principle that the law is the same for all. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u18	Barani (GAL). Mr President, since I have a socialist culture, I am not afraid of dictatorships and squadrisms, nor of communists or fascists, because history teaches that we have always sprung up on it, with the strength of our ideas and principles. However, we must point out one important fact: we were in Brescia demonstrating democratically for a local election. That's the point. Why, Senator Zanda, put justice in the way? But do you give us the opportunity to demonstrate democratically? Why put her in the middle? [[Applause from the LAG Group. Comments from the M5S Group.]] Is it possible for us to go to a demonstration to expect our affiliates to have the possibility of not being harmed in their way of manifesting? [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] That is democracy, and we are ready to mark it at any time. There was an unworthy squadronism in Brescia. We would never allow ourselves to go to the demonstrations of others, we would never allow ourselves to go with flags within other demonstrations. Above all, we are not afraid of the confrontation, if this is to happen, in order to restore democracy, as I said before. But now, if it is true, how true it is, that we are in democracy and we must have respect for each other, why those flags of political parties within the demonstration as to demand confrontation? This is the serious problem: flags of political parties expressing the President of one of the branches of Parliament. This is an important element of gravity. We cannot fail to consider it, Senator Zanda, because then, afterward, it is useless for us to mourn our wounded and regret the clashes that inevitably occur. When the facts happened in Brescia, Mr President, why bring up the presence of the Minister of the Interior that no one knew that perhaps there would be? Here we are at the level of veggenza: they fought because they expected that after two or three hours he would be there, to attend, not on stage, as a spectator. [[Comments]] No, that is not the case, ladies and gentlemen! We are asking - and Senator Romani is right to turn to the second office of the State - that democracy be respected. I make one final point out loud. We must take an example from the constituent fathers. Reread the introductions and introductory writings. Mr Togliatti himself, as Minister of Justice, demanded parliamentary immunity. He claimed it - I am addressing, in particular, Senator Zanda - precisely for the separation of powers, to prevent one power from prevail over another. That is precisely what we must prevent. We must look at the teaching of the constituent fathers, who had well seen that power could be taken, not only with tanks, but also with sentences, which are worse than tanks. That is why the separation of powers from our constituent fathers has been introduced. It was an evil act, then, to have removed this embankment in the nineties to the overpower of one power over another. For this reason, I believe that with great tranquility we must put our hands back on the issue of justice and start a complete reform, so that cases such as those of Andreotti, Tortora or many others no longer have to happen. We must, then, respect - and I conclude - the will of the Italian people above all. I would remind you that in 1987 the Italian people expressed the will for which the wrong party must pay: in fact, the civil liability of the judges was voted by tens of millions of Italians. Do we want to be consequential? Like an engineer and a doctor who when they are wrong pay, so even a magistrate cannot be unpunished, he cannot have the total impunity of the mistakes he makes, even deliberately, which - as it is before everyone's eyes - in these days someone is actually perpetrating! [[Applause from the LAG, PdL and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u19	I think this debate can be considered to be over. I intervene, as it were, personally, as you taught me. I cannot go into the matter because it is not allowed by my function. It is clear, however, that those who take part in a demonstration in the streets - it happened to me too - expose themselves to applause as to dissensions. The important thing is that such dissensions do not prevent the free manifestation of thought. Therefore, I hope - as I have done several times in a very clear way - that the sense of responsibility which you yourself have invoked can push the social and political forces to calm and to the absence of any violence, including verbal violence.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u20	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00020 (text 2), tabled by Senator Micheloni and other senators, on the establishment of the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad. I call Senator Micheloni to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we propose that you approve the motion on the establishment of the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad. This is the fourth time that the Senate has been asked to set up this Committee. However, the discussions of the last few days with a number of colleagues have revealed a point that leads me to give up the intervention I had planned to make on motion 20 (text 2) to respond only to a concern that emerged - I repeat - in various contacts. It seems that the problem of setting up this Committee is only the running costs here in the Senate. I believe that this point is at least unacceptable, and also offensive to our Italian communities abroad. I would like to mention a few elements, rather than making an intervention, and explain the need to set up the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad. I repeat that this Committee was first established in the 14th legislature, and was then confirmed in the 15th and 16th legislatures. In the last parliamentary term, he held 27 hearings to carry out a survey of policies relating to Italian citizens residing abroad. Therefore, it would be appropriate to conclude this work and arrive at a position, a project of policies for Italians abroad. All these discussions lead me to remind you of some of the issues. The concern is that this Committee may cost. If anyone is interested in the figures, because then I will have to hear some of them with some difficulty and I will not even be able to reply, I would like them to be heard at least. In recent years this Committee has cost very little tens of thousands of euros for its operation, against policies that affect millions of Italians living abroad. One million of these Italians, on the other hand, voted for this parliamentary term. It seems that every time you face the issue of Italians abroad you have to talk about costs: we cost, Italians abroad cost. Italians abroad, I would like to remind those who do not yet have white hair, for decades have rebalanced the balance of payments of our country, in the post-war period. If Italy today, with all its difficulties, has had the economic development that has occurred, this is due largely in the post-war period to the work of Italians abroad. I had already delivered some data in this House on 23 April 2009, which I would like to recall today. Only our retired ex-emigrants, who have returned to live their retirement age and to end their lives in Italy after work abroad, return to Italy, from pension funds of other States (considering only five States), over 5 billion euros a year. We are also told that we do not pay taxes: speaking of taxes, I would like to take advantage of the presence of Vice Minister Archi, since it is announced a decree on the IMU for Friday. Dear Deputy Minister, we had already raised this problem: the IMU on the houses built by Italian migrant workers, especially in Europe, we pay it with the "second home" rate, that is, a house that our workers occupy one month a year, when it is good, realized with their sacrifices in other countries, investing in Italy (wrong, because if they had invested in the countries of residence maybe today they would have found themselves better), is taxed as if it were a second home. We had already pointed out the injustice and the unacceptableness of this situation; I hope that this decree will correct this - pass me the word - vulgar injustice. The Italians abroad ask to pay but the taxes but that the empty house, not rented, be treated as the first house. There live a month a year in these houses and they also pay for waste all year round. We are all thought to be rich abroad. I meet regular Volkswagen pensioners, for example, living in Germany with a pension of 800-900 euros (in Germany they are not all millionaires) and received IMU charts of the order of 1,200 euros. They told me that if they pay the IMU they don't have the money to go back to Italy that month either. I believe that we can legitimately expect these measures to be correct and acceptablely introduced in the Friday decree. Moreover, we have stopped spreading Italian language and culture around the world; this is considered an expense. The other countries, also in crisis and in difficulty, in recent years have increased the investment to promote their language and culture. We are resetting our policies. We have the problem of discussing the overall reform of the representation of Italians abroad, and this is another of our contradictions. Italy was one of the first countries to recognize the need for the presence of representation of its communities abroad in Parliament. For once the French have copied us; this is a historical fact. In the last parliamentary elections, the French elected eleven Members representing the French communities abroad, and the French immigrants are less than half of us. We are on the agenda for the abolition of the foreign constituency. But why are the other countries analyzing this experience of ours and taking it back? Because they have understood that a presence of representatives of communities abroad in Parliament is important, for the country, not for us, abroad. I am tired of saying this in this House, but this importance cannot be communicated. This is probably our responsibility, the responsibility of the elect: we have not been able to convey this importance. I hope there will be this awareness and sensitivity of the House to reason also in the context of institutional reforms, hoping that one day there will be a better quality of Members of Parliament than the Micheloni, who will be able to convey this importance. We are instruments of political and economic promotion of Italy in the world. It is before everyone's eyes that if we talk about Made in Italy all over the world it is not because we are good at international marketing: we talk about it because the markets of the world have been open to Italian products by Italians who live in the world and who today give an extraordinary contribution and importance to the Italian economy. I will conclude, Mr President (I do not think I will need all the ten minutes that have been allocated to me). The following sentence is set out in text 2 of the motion: The members of the Committee Bureau shall not receive any official allowance. I have read it in order to clarify the need for the establishment of this Committee. If anyone can think - let me speak on behalf of my six colleagues from the foreign constituency present in this House - that this was the Committee's point for us, we are really out of line, and we must be concerned. I hope to hear, for once, a sensible debate on Italian communities abroad, and I would like to close by recalling an aspect that is too often felt when we meet our communities. At the end of public assemblies a voice is rising more and more often: but why should we Italians abroad continue to fight, engage and work to maintain contact with our country when our country does not want this thing? Then let's reschedule the passports. This thing is bad and bad for Italy, and not for Italians abroad. In conclusion, I hope you will accept this motion. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u22	I address, on behalf of the Assembly, a greeting to the students at the Istituto comprensivo Folgaria-Lavarone-Luserna in Folgaria, in the province of Trento, who follow our work. Thanks, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u23	I declare the debate open. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u24	Mr President, my speech is addressed to my fellow Members who followed Senator Micheloni's speech. This will be a very short speech. I don't understand Senator Micheloni's thoughts at all, because I share them. As President of the Chamber of Deputies, I fought - there was Senator Colucci, then Mr Romani and many others - for the establishment of the vote of Italians abroad. From now on I say that the constitutional reforms that - I hope - will be introduced must not forget the great value of these permanent witnesses and ambassadors in the world that are the communities of Italians abroad and elected parliamentarians abroad in the Italian Parliament. The only problem is that, frankly, I cannot understand why the Human Rights Committee and the Committee of Italians abroad should be set up in the Foreign Affairs Committee, whereas here an ad hoc Commission should be set up for both human rights and Italians abroad. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Frankly, I think it is completely useless. I do not make it a question of easy demagogy with regard to costs: I make it, if nothing else, a serious, efficient and clear organizational problem. The Foreign Affairs Committee could set up the Committee of Italians abroad with one of its Presidents, with his dignity, avoiding unnecessary duplication. On the contrary, we are setting up the Commission on Human Rights, the Committee of Italians abroad and other Commissions: I do not know whether there is any other Committee on the agenda. Honestly, I think it is a wasted opportunity for politics to show seriousness. I personally cannot vote in favour of this motion. But not on high issues: on concrete issues, on the organization of our work and on the efficient representation of the reality of the Senate House in the relationship with the Commissions. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Fazzone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u25	Senator Zin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u26	Mr President, my speech is aimed at a single objective, which is to present the creation of the Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad, which we are about to vote on in a few minutes. It should be essentially a signal for all Italians who do not live in Italy, but who must be considered Italian as much as we are here according to the inviolable principle of ius sanguinis, a signal that contains a very important message: we care about you, we are at your service, and this simply because you are Italian, and not just for the vote. The Italians abroad who follow with interest and passion the events of Italy are numerous. Nostalgia for your country remains strong even after many years of emigration, and it is on the basis of these feelings that they feel strongly linked to Italy, because few are those who leave their country for pleasure: in most cases you are forced by the circumstances. Of course, even in the same circumstances many others preferred to stay in Italy, but the choice to emigrate does not make us less Italian. I am a witness: I was not asked to choose to leave Italy, and now I know. I didn't want to leave. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Turano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u27	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u28	Mr President, it seems to me that the remarks made earlier by the President of the Foreign Affairs Committee, my colleague, and, if you will allow me, my friend Casini, are of extraordinary common sense. At the same time, I would not like President Casini's statements to be based on the arguments and sentiments put forward in the motion tabled by Senator Micheloni, which our Group, as well as Casini himself, broadly shares. Unfortunately, as is often the case at the beginning of the parliamentary term, our planning in this House, unorganized, with the randomness of the parliamentary calendars, has placed the birth of the Committee on Foreign Affairs between that of the Commission on Human Rights, already launched, and that of the Committee on Italians abroad, which was postponed two weeks ago. From this point of view, our Group, reserving itself to adhere to any solution to go, in the method, to meet the considerations of friend Casini, does not want to drop the motion and above all what is behind and inside. In the last parliamentary term I was a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, not specifically of the Committee, and I was able to appreciate the passion, intelligence and competence with which Senator Micheloni, above all, and other colleagues, have arrived in view of a significant achievement, which was almost missed. This morning, however, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to take up the most important aspect, which Senator Micheloni said during the last parliamentary term: it is not acceptable that Italians abroad should be classified as a cost and not as a resource. From this point of view, let us avoid inflating our breasts in Parliament for what we manage to do in the introduction of a greater parliamentary sensitivity, when we saw in the last parliamentary term, with machetes struck not already by the Minister of Foreign Affairs but by the Minister of Economic Affairs, the excellent Tremonti, the resource of the Italian State for Italians abroad thinning, weakening, plagiarizing with arguments never adequately discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and certainly not out of insensitivity of President Dini, predecessor of his friend Casini. The spending review in this matter was done with a lot of superficiality and with a lot of cynicism. From this point of view, I believe that the spirit of Mr Micheloni's motion was not the claim of our primacy in Europe (more than 3.5 million Italians outside Italy), a primacy that we have acquired in the most difficult years of national unity, at least since the second post-war period. The work of the Committee, the hearing of the president of the Institute of Statistics, today Minister of the Letta Government, and the scientific production of ISPI, the Institute for International Political Studies, have documented how the composition of the Italian population has changed abroad. We have moved from emigration to Belgium and Germany, from cardboard suitcases to southern ones, mainly from rural Italy, to emigration, especially since the 1970s, made up of intellectuals, graduates and graduates. On this point, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was rather late and pursued its reforms in relation to national policy requirements. There is much to correct, perhaps respecting the figures of the spending review, carried out, in the last legislature, on various consulates. From this point of view, our Group has no intention of bringing down Mr Micheloni's proposal, while taking into account, in terms of the method of programming our work, the considerations duly introduced in our debate by President Casini. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Turano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u29	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion before us today - one of the first occasions for parliamentary debate - is, in my opinion, a moment of symbolic, as well as institutional value, which is even more amplified by the fact that we still want to deal more closely with issues relating to our communities across borders and the complex world that characterizes them. The establishment of the Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad represents the transversal will to create a further institutional framework, colleagues, within which to deepen the demands, share the planning and understand the prospects of a changing world. That is why I wanted to subscribe, together with other colleagues in my Group, to this motion, including the reasons of my friend Casini; to underline how every useful path of renewal of the role of Italy towards the other Italy, the other border, must start from this House, taking up a project that starts from afar and that has been intended to develop during the last three legislatures, through a structured experience and from which we must draw those arguments and those experiences in order to do better and more in the months that will come. It is interesting, in my opinion, that today we wanted to address this topic, a few weeks after the vote following which the usual and demagogic remorse about the legitimacy of the vote of Italians abroad, confirmed by imaginative proposals for the abolition of the Tremaglia law. In this scenario, reaffirming the shared need for a renewed instrument of liaison between Parliament and compatriots can and must represent an opportunity for emancipation, even more cultural than political-social, expression of a new will of self-consciousness of the country compared to what was the phenomenon of Italian emigration. In these weeks, as I said, we have returned to talk about the electoral dynamics beyond the border as a faulty system, lacking, not only from the organizational point of view but also from the normative point of view. It has returned to paraphrase the old principle of American settlers on the eve of independence, that of the "no taxation without representation," transmuted into "no representation without taxation," almost as if to force, with an excess of demagogy, the alleged illegality of the Tremaglia law. The compatriots, in fact, are still labelled as those who do not pay taxes, so they do not deserve to have a representation: a principle that, unfortunately, compromises years of legislative evolution of our country and above all the scaffolding itself of the rule of law, before which we should reflect first we make mistakes in the wake of emotion. Speaking of illegitimate representation of fellow countrymen takes the speech away from the real. Draging the Tremaglia law into a reformative drift risks creating a deplorable democratic vulnus, from which Italy seemed to have emancipated precisely in 2001. Perhaps someone escapes that the majority of the compatriots pay taxes, for example the IMU and TARES on small houses still owned in Italy, unique and simple link with their origins; perhaps we forget that many compatriots have an income subject to IRPEF in Italy, thanks, sometimes, to the type of work done. You tend to forget what Italians are all over the world. Perhaps the memory runs to old images of emigration, removing the detail that, in the meantime, years have passed and there is a whole new generation of migrants, that new mobility that belongs to the current of this country. The Italians who are abroad today, in addition to the old emigration, represent a new social scenery: young professionals, animated by ambitions, who want to move in a new working, cultural and social scenario, carrying on the excellence of Italy beyond borders. This must be taken into account in this House and the conditions must be created for regulatory instruments to be remodelled in the light of changing scenarios. Italians in the world are not an electoral basin or a chapter of spending, they are not an appendage of the country, animated by privileges or illegitimate claims. They are a resource for our country, the engine of internationalization, the enhancement of Made in Italy, as well as the vehicle of excellence. Paying attention to this world means putting the future of the country at the centre. This is not rhetoric, but it is an objective analysis, through which we do not want, however, to blindly defend every nuance of the dynamics of representation and of the mode of exercise of the vote. But we can't allow us to talk about the equation that is illegal abroad, because it would sin gross superficiality. The offences that have been linked to the exercise of the vote abroad, some duly sanctioned, do not belong to the compatriots, nor do they have anything to do with their world: what has happened is only to be blamed for the superficiality of our politics and the underworld that has crept into a system full of gaps. Let's not confuse the two levels. Before making evaluations it would be advisable to deepen the argument, not stop at easy prejudices. On several occasions, I and some of my colleagues in the Group have highlighted the need to assess the possibility of correcting the Tremaglia law, reviewing the complex points that characterize it, which can - I am sure - be dealt with precisely in the setting up of the Committee. This was the case during the last parliamentary term, during which the Committee was also asked to examine and deepen complex issues, such as the reform of COMITES and CGIE, as well as the deepening of issues related to the diplomatic-consular network and services. Probably - I would like to reiterate - our country has not yet had the chance to deal with its history, made up of small pieces of experience, sacrifice and struggles, which perhaps only with time can recompose. We are witnessing precisely this: the slow but effective constitution of a national conscience on emigration. Since 2001 (the year of the entry into force of the vote abroad) to date, the road has been articulated, full of challenges, but also of great achievements. In this path the demagogic emotions have not been lacking, just as I do not think they will be lacking. Perhaps they will be used to shake consciences and speak again - as is happening today - of a world left for too long to side with government actions. It is precisely in this changing scenario that the Committee for Italians in the world must be included, which, by being elected abroad and - I repeat - elected in Italy, can guarantee that necessary osmosis between mutual knowledge, projects and ideas. This must be based on a new design for Italians abroad. For this reason, I certainly hope that the setting up of the Committee will become a further institutional interlocutor, and in particular for all those who will be interested in making a contribution on the subject without - I stress - demagogy: an interlocutor able to dialogue, discuss and deepen issues addressed in the relevant Commissions and I hope that it can be audited by the Permanent Commissions on certain measures and can provide documents and reports on matters of competence. Today we are offered a new opportunity to rethink this magnificent experience of democratic representation for our fellow countrymen and to put our history and emigration into order. We must start from this in order to open a new season, where the Italian citizen, wherever he resides - I address all of you - is really at the heart of any political action. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and the Senators Micheloni and Turano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u31	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak briefly on this occasion when the Senate decides to set up a Committee on the issues of Italians abroad. This is an important initiative that confirms the great attention given by the Senate and Parliament to Italians around the world, an initiative to which the Government assures its full support and collaboration. I am sure that, as in previous legislation, the Committee will represent an important point of reference for fruitful exchanges and insights on policies for Italians abroad. In this context, I would like to extend special thanks to Senator Firrarello and the members of the Committee of the previous legislature for their valuable work. Policies in favour of Italians abroad are a fundamental part of Italy's foreign policy. In this context, Farnesina is strongly committed alongside our communities, in particular to providing consular services, assistance to fellow citizens and to promoting the dissemination of Italian language and culture. I am sure that this action will receive a stimulus and benefit from the Committee's work, in particular through the contribution of its members and in the light of the fruitful dialogue with the representative bodies of Italians in the world.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u33	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u36	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to declare our Group's abstention vote, although I understand the spirit of the Micheloni motion and the need to investigate more rigorously the serious issue of Italians abroad. Moreover, I have heard in the debate a point that I share, according to which the issue of Italian emigration abroad is no longer even open to the eyes of the past: we are faced with a completely different emigration. I would remind you that just a year ago an analysis of migration flows showed an even 30% increase in Italian emigration abroad in 2012 compared to 2011, with the particularity of which we have said several times also in this House, regarding the fact that this emigration involves first and foremost young generations of pupils and specialists, who finish their training courses elsewhere and remain in other European countries. While we therefore share the need to deepen this issue and express, as the Left Ecology and Freedom, the need to deepen the subject of the vote of Italians abroad (we know that these are different things, but we would like to recall in this House a campaign that we share, that conducted by the association "Libera" in the past months to urge for greater transparency and greater control of legality towards voting abroad), we think that the considerations that President Casini has just expressed are considerations worthy of listening and merit. In my particular case, as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I agree with them and I think I can say that this is the direction of the whole Group, so we will be voting for an abstention. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u39	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, I am happy to speak on this motion to express my support. Moreover, I start from a direct experience in the field of emigration, because I am one of the founders of the Union of Trentino families abroad and therefore I am well aware of the emigration sector. I have to say that today I have heard some absolutely appropriate interventions, but also someone from those who may not know fully the reality of emigration, and of course I am not referring only to the Trentino, since all Italy in the past centuries unfortunately had to know this sad phenomenon, which is a phenomenon of suffering, because starting from home not knowing the languages, with great difficulty, is certainly not a simple choice. However, I would like to forget the nostalgic operation, because it is not the intention of this Committee, and I would simply like to remind you that today, instead, our immigrants abroad represent an extraordinary opportunity to promote our products first, to maintain ties, to promote Italy, to promote our culture and our art. This link must therefore be maintained today and must be intensified in order to have positive effects on our community that resides here, but also on that which is abroad. Moreover today the low cost companies that have reduced the costs of the travels and the new technologies allow to come in contact at almost almost null costs and therefore the relationships are much closer and much stronger. Moreover, it is precisely the young people who use these systems more and it is the young people who often feel the need to reconnect with realities that they did not know and to understand where their parents came from, where the family of their ancestors was located. I believe that this is a bond that must absolutely be strengthened, which must be made known and promoted as a sign of recognition first of all because, as reminded me by those who preceded me, in particular the first signatory of the motion, migrants with their remittances have allowed our territories to recover and have allowed to grow. Moreover, the best energies of this land have often gone away, the bravest people, those who had the most tools to be able to assert themselves abroad. Today many of them have created large companies, occupy places of great responsibility and therefore also help to define the pride of our country in the world. In particular, I am thinking of the associations of migrants who were born in Trentino and who are carrying out a work of great seriousness, involving especially young people, students, promoting exchanges between university students. In short, let us look at the world of emigration not only with a look at the past, but with a look at the great opportunities that this offers today to open the horizons not only for those who want to return or come to Italy for short periods, but also for the people who live here and who want to know what experiences their relatives and their countrymen have made, and whenever they return to our land there is an absolutely important exchange of knowledge. I also say that I presented a bill to resolve a problem that still concerns the migrants of Trentino, as well as those of the Julian Region, because they emigrated at the end of the 19th century-initiates of the twentieth century as citizens of the then Austro-Hungarian Empire: the recognition of dual citizenship still struggles to be applied, especially because of the lack of the necessary bureaucratic support. Mr Longo, who comes from São Paulo, who is an expression of that community, knows how many bureaucratic delays have prevented the implementation of the law. I hope that the current Government will increase its staff at consulates and embassies and that it will enable the descendants of the immigrants of the former Austro-Hungarian Empire to obtain recognition of the right rights in foreign lands. I also hope that our embassies and consulates can be more and more, like the Institute for Foreign Trade, real agencies to promote contacts with Italy, because perhaps in this field we can do far more. Today our companies need such relationships in order to expand abroad and attract foreign capital and companies. These are reports that, if they are carried out in the right way, in a concrete, operational way and I would also like to say qualified, using the right media, can really bring a great utility. For these reasons, I am voting in favour, bearing in mind that we are aiming at a lean, cost-free and above all operational committee. [[Applause from Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u42	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be aimed at confirming the positive vote of the North-Autonomous League Group on this initiative. Of course, we have heard important speeches that justify the existence of this Committee, which does not take away, moreover, from the Foreign Commission, which is of great importance. In this case, as has already been said correctly, it is a question of giving a more definite picture to a question we all care about: attention to all those who, starting from the last century, have spread around the world coming from all the Italian regions. We know how much these people are ambassadors of culture, and very often we find communities even stronger than those of origin and origin. We must always remember that they are not only important when we look for the vote to elect parliamentarians in the foreign constituency, but as representatives of a culture that belongs to us deeply and that we want to defend at all latitudes. It is undoubtedly important for the Government to give full support, and in this respect we will be careful to verify that words follow the facts. At the same time, it cannot be said that everything is simply resolved by the Committee's constitution: work will have to be done. We will be involved in this initiative, but we expect that everything - I repeat - will not be reduced to just setting up the Committee, with a few trips abroad. I do not add any more words, Mr President, because it seems to me that the initiative is very clear and I believe that too long speeches can also give rise to doubts as to what we are doing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u45	GIANNI (SPI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a modern and ambitious institutional challenge at the root of the proposal to set up, even in the 17th legislature, the Committee for the Issues of Italians abroad (appreciably at no extra cost) in spite of a sober definition which, in my opinion, sacrifices the statement of the political objectives underlying this choice. In expressing the vote in favour of the Civic Choice Group, I would like to briefly describe and comment on the content of this challenge. First, we need to redefine the profile of Italian identity in the international context. It is an identity - it has already been told by many who have preceded me - complex and dynamic that migratory flows have contributed to determine both in history (seconds in the diaspora only to the Chinese, with 30 million compatriots overall emigrated), and in more recent times: I remember that the number of Italian graduates who have chosen to expatriate in the last decade has doubled compared to the previous decade and today represents 15.9% of the total. To date, as has been recalled, the community of Italians abroad is close to four million, so about 7 percent compared to the Italian indigenous population and resident in Italy, and is therefore more a potential tool for development for the future of global Italy than a fragment of heartbreaking historical memory or precious archive material. As such, therefore, this community must be considered in terms of legislative action and policy initiatives. Secondly, cultural and linguistic heritage must be valued as a shared horizon and as an identified and recognizable perimeter of our national community, regardless of the territorial boundaries of reference. In the historical context of contemporary life, dear senators, it is to be wondered whether and by what means our country can use this heritage to consolidate our position in the world. Other important countries have done so in history and continue to do so in the present. The reasons for a yes have roots in the past but, above all, well-interpreted the new themes and priorities of the political agenda: internationalisation and integration. The language and culture of a people determine the sense of belonging to the community beyond physical and territorial domination and enclose an essential trait of that intangible heritage that the individual reaffirms as an inalienable good and as a human right of the person (exactly like the right to health), regardless of changing his or her civil and political context of reference. Italy, its language and culture - I would like to remind you in this authoritative forum - are an emblematic example of this: a language without armies, with a historical path of peaceful expansion in the Mediterranean area, starting from the Middle Ages and until the seventeenth century, which continues to present a mystery of growth. Nineteenth language in the world with 70 million native speakers, but third or fourth among the most studied foreign languages in the world, Italian is today an instrument of diffusion of a cultural and value model of which the Italofona community is the first depositary. We therefore have a clear political duty to strengthen its presence. I would point out, however, that over the last four years the funds allocated to linguistic and cultural promotion through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been reduced by 68%. Yet, the fascination of history and memory are joined today by new and powerful factors of attraction. I quote two: the political model of dialogue and integration, the economic model of the quality Italian product, which has already been mentioned several times, whose demand indices are growing progressively in the high end of those countries that were once completely unrelated to our trade network. Overall, therefore, our community seems to be endowed with that soft and intelligent power that translates into foreign policy in the exercise of a force of attraction towards the outside, based on language and culture, on values and on the political model. Diplomacy, economic aid, communications and the education and information system are key instruments. The third and final commitment is to finally assume a long-term strategic perspective in the design of cultural foreign policy interventions. There is a legislative path - some points have already been mentioned - the stages of which are known and still discussed: just think of the necessary reform of Law No. 153 of 1971, already mentioned several times here, and the most recent reform of Italian institutes of culture, Law No. 401 of 1990, which, while containing an explicit first reference to the necessary relationship with the Italian communities emigrated, has proved weak in the vision and inadequate in the instruments indicated. Similar considerations apply to other institutions active in different countries in this area - mainly the Committees of Italians residing abroad, the so-called COMITES by acronym, and the General Council - often rich in good intentions and active voluntary commitment, but still lacking an updated legislative framework. Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the vote in favour of the motion on the creation of the Committee for the Issues of Italians abroad reflects our cultural sensitivity to our history and our past, but above all - above all - expresses a political commitment to the development of a new model of promotion and dissemination of our identity in the world. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u48	GAMBARO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as was the case in the case of legislation XIV, XV and XVI, this House has the power to set up the Committee on the Issues of Italians abroad, an institutional body which, in addition to its general purpose, is to protect critical issues, to promote Italianity and to deal with the problem of our fellow citizens living abroad. In the 16th legislature, the Committee was composed of a considerable number of senators, 14 senators, and consisted of one president, two vice presidents and one secretary. It was therefore, for staff and resources, as well as for institutional drive, a body that should have produced significant results. This has not happened. On the contrary, we can note, with the regret that only those who care about the common good and who reflect themselves in the sense of belonging to the values of our flag - since they are our compatriots living across borders - that, among the most urgent and concrete tasks that this body has proposed to carry out in the past, there is to proceed to the reform of the founding laws of the General Council of Italians abroad (CGIE) and to regulate the Committees of Italians residing abroad (COMITES), or to give life and create legitimacy to other unproductive bodies, institutes or wheelchairs that have identical or parallel objectives. And not only that: what leaves behind is that, in recent years, the Committee's prominent objectives, clearly indefinite and summing up in content and forms, have been the reform of consular services and the promotion of Italian language and culture abroad, as well as the support for the Italian company on international markets. In essence, there is talk of activities that already numerous bodies, associations, foundations or private committees carry out in the States with perhaps more concrete results. From objective findings we have found that the Committee's meetings took place on an average of one month and were solely concerned with the sterile hearing of other bodies with the same objectives and equivalent objectives. The tangible results produced over the years by the body under discussion, whose cognitive investigations have produced nothing relevant from the point of view of legislative innovation, can undoubtedly qualify as insufficient or at least useless in relation to the ambitions and expectations inherent in its founding prospect. If we add to this productive deficit the costs that this body entails, the final equation on the public usefulness of its constitution is irrefutable: only for mission expenses the total cost of the Committee over the last five years - to give a few figures - is equal to € 147,735, not to mention that a member of the Bureau involves the disbursement of a monthly allowance of € 3,612 and several other additional costs for the Senate coffers. From this premise it is clear that even a distracted administrator - and this prestigious Assembly has been too often in recent years - would clearly understand that it would be more appropriate to exploit the resources that the State machine still possesses rather than rely on useless and expensive constructions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In essence, we can all understand that the Committee's activities can be carried out and its aims pursued with an even greater effectiveness and relevance by the bodies and departments already present at the consular organisations that exist abroad or at the competent offices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or - as is the case in the Chamber of Deputies - within the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It seems completely ployal to add - but we will never tire of doing so - that we cannot continue to dissipate the resources that citizens make available to us in an unproductive way. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and coagulating prebides and parliamentary honors, completely debased of every meaning, while the real country goes out day after day and the Italian productive fabric withers irreversibly. Therefore, in declaring our vote against motion No 20 (text 2), we suggest that we do not proceed with the establishment of the Committee and the appointment of its members, because it is clearly contrary to the substantial and necessary policies of administrative austerity of the State, in compliance with the essential needs of reducing the costs of politics. On the other hand, we propose that the methods of support and promotion which Parliament can provide to Italians abroad be re-discussed and re-examined in a less tempting and more rational way. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u51	PAGE (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the next item is the establishment of the parliamentary committee on the issues of Italians abroad, including in the current parliamentary term. It is therefore a question of allowing the reconstitution and operation of a parliamentary body dealing with migration issues. Italy represents a unique world landscape for the intensity, consistency and rooting of the communities of our fellow citizens in the world. The reality of emigration has, moreover, known different characterizations over time, from the second post-war period to the present day. The first migratory generations were driven by necessity, while the second and third generations experienced the phase of integration in the contexts of allocation. Finally, there is an increasing number of young Italians who are professionally and academically very qualified who go abroad for study or work, for a period of training or stable. The importance of the Italian community in the world has been the subject of recognition by the State first with the establishment of appropriate bodies representative of the community and then with the recognition of the right to participate with the vote in the election of deputies and senators who participated in Italy, in the National Parliament, in the definition of general and sectoral policies. In the last legislature, the Committee for the Issues of Italians abroad was chaired by Senator Giuseppe Firrarello and played an important role both from the point of view of the deepening of knowledge of the past and current characteristics of the Italian communities in the world, as well as that of the close connection and meeting with our fellow countrymen abroad. The Committee carried out a cognitive survey, which included a series of hearings on topics ranging from teaching and the dissemination of Italian language and culture abroad (see the Dante Alighieri Society) to information specifically dedicated to the communities and the diffusion of the radio and television signal in Italian language in the world (Rai International, Rai World, United Federation of Italian Press abroad), to then focus on institutional interlocutors such as the Undersecretary of State for the Interior and the Minister for Youth. In addition, delegations of the Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad in the 16th legislature participated in the work of the plenary and continental assemblies of the General Council of Italians Abroad, allowing to bring back to Parliament, as a whole, the solicitations and sentiments of our fellow countrymen abroad. The motion, therefore, is in close continuity with the fruitful commitment made by the Committee itself in the last parliamentary term. I remember, moreover, that I come from a Region, dear President, Sicily, which is among the realities that have experienced a greater exodus abroad in recent decades. It was also held in the last legislature in the Senate to examine a bill of organic reform of the system of representation of the Italian communities in the world, whose examination in the other branch of Parliament did not come to an end. Moreover, there remains the node of the renewal of the representations of the bodies currently in office as regards both the Committees for Italians abroad and the General Council of Italians abroad; the elections should take place in the year 2014 according to new and different IT modalities. Finally, there are other issues of particular interest to the communities of our fellow citizens in the world, which concern the reorganization of the diplomatic-consular network for the provision of consular services on the territory. A reorganisation and rationalization operation is also under way, which in the last parliamentary term saw a comparison between Parliament and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The computerization of the provision of services is called upon to compensate for the reduction in the number of existing offices. In my opinion, therefore, there is a need to provide the communities of our fellow citizens throughout the world with a sign of continuity, identifying a specific parliamentary body which is a collector of their needs and indications and also through the economic and social policy lines established at national level. It is for these reasons, therefore, that I consider this motion to be acceptable and I hope it will be adopted. Therefore, on behalf of the People's Group, I am voting in favour. [[Applause from the PdL Group and the Senators Micheloni and Zin. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u54	TURANO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of Italians in the world deserves the attention of all of us because, at such a difficult time for the country system and for the economy, it is necessary to put in place all the great resources that Italy has available: and the Italians in the world, when it comes to relaunching markets, exports and the economy, have a priority role to play. To continue to consider them objects or, worse, numbers could be an unforgivable mistake for the democratic country. Too many times, in fact, Italy has failed to remember its emigrated children only in electoral periods, exploiting them and, in some cases, comparing them to second-rate citizens. Yet our beautiful Constitution always reminds us of an important concept: It is the task of the Republic, as Article 3 states, to remove the economic and social obstacles which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the country. Here, this is the most beautiful, truer answer that comes to us from the constituent Fathers and that we must use as an instrument for the affirmation of the rights of all: because our compatriots, before being resident abroad, are Italian, like me, like you, like our children and like our fathers. The second series of citizens will no longer have to exist, because now it is time to change and continue with greater conviction on the way of the revival of Italians abroad that across borders represent the true ambassadors of Made in Italy in the world. The work carried out by the Committee in past legislation has traced a path and achieved results: it has ensured that sensitive issues such as health care, the promotion of Italian language and culture in the world, citizenship and the restructuring of the consular network have been able to find space in the parliamentary debate. The Committee held meetings and studies closely linked to the JTIS, COMITES and patrons; it discussed and suggested topics to the Government. There is still so much to be done, starting from a concrete commitment to the promotion of cultural and university exchanges, which, as elected abroad, I will ask to put on the agenda immediately. In the coming days I will personally accompany the rector of the University of Wisconsin, in the United States, to Cosenza to meet the rector of the University of Calabria. I believe that from meetings like this can arise important conditions to develop an interuniversity collaboration able to enrich our universities and our students and, at the same time, to lay the foundations for a network that involves Italy, Italians abroad and young students. Another point to take into consideration is the possibility to foresee exchanges at an entrepreneurial level in order to ensure that professional experiences in Italian companies can find new sap and new ideas in the encounter and comparison with different realities of the Bel Paese. Beyond the border there are many wonderful success stories related to Italian entrepreneurship that could become valuable for those who intend to focus on 'export. Precisely in this sense, in fact, the Italian community and those who, in the past decades, have set up their businesses far from Italy can and must be a resource for Italy. My personal history fits in this context: I emigrated to the United States many years ago, I chose to focus on Made in Italy and its products and today my company, in addition to being a history of personal success, is also a reference point for many new start-ups in Italy that want to invest in the United States. This meeting should take place on a daily basis, not only at a purely entrepreneurial level. Our goal should be to weave a stronger network than the current one, a real network, a new Italy system that has in its DNA an eye on the Italian companies in the world and that embraces the great and rich universe of the Italian chambers of commerce abroad, of associationism and of the federation. Then there is one crucial point in the work that we should address: the reform of the vote. A vote that must be defended and revised at the same time to ensure greater transparency and legality, but not forgetting that the vote abroad and the presence of MPs of the foreign constituency in the Italian Parliament are important for Italy and not only for Italians abroad. If we were not to be able to fully understand this concept, we would have failed in our task. A few days ago, along with other colleagues, I met Senator Leconte, representative of French residents abroad. Modern and democratic countries like France, in fact, look with great interest at our representation and our way of dialogue and maintaining links with the migrant community. Europe, in short, takes its cue from Italy and for this reason, I am sure, Parliament will recognize and perhaps enhance Italians abroad, a resource - I repeat - all too often unused, which the advanced democracy countries have transformed into a flywheel of economic, political and cultural development of real value. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the establishment of a Committee which plays a fundamental role in the relations of the Senate of the Republic and of Italy with the millions of compatriots living abroad. I request a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u55	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Turano, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that, as established by the Conference of Leaders, the fixed voting system is now in place. I therefore call on each of my colleagues to vote from their posts. I therefore refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of motion No 20 (text 2), tabled by Senator Micheloni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 255 Senators voting 254 Majority 128 Favorable 191 Contrari 55 Absent 8]] The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u58	ZANETTIN (PdL). Mr President, I would like to speak to ask the answer to a question that I have put. I am referring to the inspection act 3-00022 concerning the situation of the "super INPS" after the merger between INPDAP and INPS. There are also press enquiries on this subject, which are of particular interest to the working world, and I would therefore urge you to urge the Government to respond to this question. 11:49 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u59	Senator Zanettin, we'll pass on your reminder.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u62	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a 29-year-old boy, Claudio Faraldi, from Ventimiglia, died under mysterious circumstances still to be clarified in the French prison in Grasse, on the Côte d'Azur. It is the same damned prison where, three years ago, Daniele Franceschi, of Viareggio, lost his life at the age of 36. It is said that Claudio's death is due to a heart attack, while Daniel's death is due to an illness. After three years, despite the commitment of the undersigned and many other parliamentarians, despite the attention of the media and the promises of the Farnesina, the causes of Daniel's death have not yet been clarified: two doctors and two nurses investigated, but still Daniel's organs have not been returned and the suspicion of the mother and of all those who have followed the story throughout his troubled journey is that the boy has been beaten and never been cured. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Is this second victim due to an improbable coincidence, or is something serious happening in Grasse's prison? It is clear that the French authorities need to be made very clear at once, without which, even in the light of the dramatic precedent, I think we could speak of the co-responsibility of the French authorities themselves for the underestimating of the events that have occurred, for the lack of vigilance and for the obvious negligence in respect of human rights. I repeat my commitment to complete the facts and ask you, Mr President, to intervene so that the urgent question which I will present tomorrow with other colleagues to the Minister, with a view to knowing the dynamics of the two deaths and to affirming the Italian will to pursue possible responsibilities, may be given an urgent response for the respect of the victims and for respect for the pain of family members. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u63	I would like to address my fellow Members who are stationed in the Chamber and who kindly continue their chatter: I believe that the dramatic events of Senator Granaiola require greater respect from everyone. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u66	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, in spite of my having to intervene again, as was the case last week, in order to point out a further act of serious violence which took place this night at the TAV yard in Chiomonte, where about twenty hooded people, I do not know whether the same people who committed the ambush last week against a worker or others, at three o'clock, launched incendiary bottles and rockets at man's height against the law enforcement forces placed in the garrison of the yard. I hope I do not have to intervene anymore, but of course every time this happens, it will be my care to make them aware of this House, because for now we are always talking about manageable situations, even if the worker hit last week has a much longer prognosis than the one initially defined, but a rocket than those used for the stadium, fired at a man's height, hitting an exponent of law enforcement, could cause serious damage. I hope that, before we have to talk about more significant or more dramatic facts, politics as a whole and all political forces, beyond the opinions that can be had on the construction or not of the infrastructure, will want to make their voice heard against this violent degeneration which, in my opinion, is now reaching extremely dangerous peaks. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u69	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, my speech reflects the concern expressed by Senator Esposito right now, not only on a personal basis but on behalf of our Group. The facts that happened this night are really worrying and this new attack on the TAV yard is intolerable: there has been a real risk of harming the safety not only of the law enforcement forces that guard the yard, but also of the workers who, I remember, are citizens who do their work and earn their living honestly. There is talk of an assault in great style, scientifically studied by those who perpetrated it, as has been recalled, using incendiary bottles, that is to say Molotov, and rockets fired at man's height. This is a functional attack on what should have happened tomorrow, when those in charge of the contracting society had planned to meet with the citizens for expropriation. What happened this night resulted in the fact that the meetings scheduled for tomorrow were cancelled. It was a scientific attack, an attack aimed at stopping this site in an inappropriate way. I would remind you that this is a construction site of national interest, that we assume is legitimate and done. Hence, illegality is given by those who are doing these acts. We are seriously concerned and, through the Presidency, we would like to draw the attention of the Government to the need to take all necessary measures to ensure the safety, not only of the police present, but also of the workers of the construction site. I repeat, we are seriously concerned. As Mr Esposito has rightly pointed out, at the moment we are only talking about facts that have caused material damage: we would not want anything else to happen. So if the Minister of the Interior would let us know anything about it or make efforts to ensure safety for this construction site, he would do everyone a favor. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u70	The Presidency will forward the requests and concerns expressed by Senators Esposito Stefano and Crosio to the Ministers concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u73	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I rise to express my condolences and dismay, which I believe are shared by the whole House, in the face of the tragic events of Saturday in Milan, which led to the death of three innocent people: Alessandro Carolè, Daniele Carella and Ermanno Masini, who died this morning after a life dedicated to volunteering. I believe that to the memory of the victims and their families we owe, not only closeness and solidarity, but also respect for a human tragedy that cannot and must not be exploited or exploited by the political battle. To the community in the district of Niguarda, shocked by what happened, who is living with composure this pain, politics and institutions must show the responsibility to open a reflection that gives concrete answers to the fears and insecurities that events like these bring out. It does not do its duty and it does not show responsibility or sense of institutions who think - and unfortunately thought - in the face of a huge and unpredictable tragedy marked by madness, to make it an instrument of political battle, to make an instrument of exploitation trying to gain some consensus speculating on the pain and anger of citizens, indicating scapegoats and trying to make fall on the shoulders of those who are immigrant and of those who work for integration the gesture of a madman. This only feeds intolerance and results in further insecurity. This shows the face of a policy that divides, while it should unite to give citizens the sense that security is a goal shared by all, a right that we all fight for, without distinction. We must reassure our citizens, saying loudly that there is no right-wing or left-wing security, but a fundamental right of the citizens for whom we are all committed. We have to show that politics comes back to thinking about the concrete needs to solve them and not to constantly fuel protagonists and divisions. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u74	Colleagues, many times, unfortunately, we have dedicated moments of recollection to institutional representatives who have lost their lives. I now propose that we observe a moment of recollection for three normal people who represent us all and against whom it is right for the institutions to stand up. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House. The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u77	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 8 May, the official of the Department of Labour of the Lazio Region, Dr. Fontana, met with the trade unions and representatives of the clinic "Colle Cesarano" in Tivoli to assess the working fate of 10 of his employees. The findings of this meeting, however, do not suggest anything good in terms of labour rights and health rights. In fact, it has been extended by 60 days the redundancy fund in derogation for these employees, with the manifest will to open a fourth procedure of dismissal, with consequent burden for the Region to relocate these people, in a situation - that we know well - of blocking turn over of health care. We want, however, to inform the Assembly that the first collective dismissal procedure was launched in March 2010 and that in three years the aforementioned clinic received a total of 24 million euros of public money, never manifesting any corporate crisis such as to justify the dismissal of 10 staff units. For this reason, it should be borne in mind that there has never been a demand for a reduction in the 200 beds currently provided for in the clinic; therefore, the justification for dismissal procedures, both in terms of public funds allocated and in terms of company efficiency, is at least doubtful. Also the use of the redundancy fund by way of derogation, at this point, turns out to be out of place given the huge sums to which this structure has access (by subtracting, then, money and shock absorbers to companies that would really need it and that know the real crisis at this time). In addition, the Lazio Region is one of the so-called wasteful regions under a health plan. Despite this, President Zingaretti has increased - as it is in his faculties - by 5% compared to the year before the total amount of emoluments for accredited private clinics, which in this case means EUR 9 million for 2013. Previous questions about the state of patients, suspicious deaths and maintenance status of the facility have never been answered in previous governments. You are still playing on the lives of some families, as usual used for business purposes and power and party games. Once again, they are whole families that pay for personal interests and customer management of health care. We attend bipartisan games involving Geress srl, a company that controls the clinic, and several well-known attendees of the Parliament and of the Regional Council of Lazio, at least from what emerges from the testimonies present in some exposed to the Public Prosecutor's Office, in which are denounced bribes, alleged extortion and threats in the case of Cesarano Hills, especially for the differences of management and inspection treatment between the previous property and the new one of Geress srl. It appears, in fact, that with the previous owner were not infrequent controls by labour inspectorates and union forces, with consequent relationship and lack of staff. Geress srl is not new to this type of dismissal procedures: it turns out, in fact, that such measures were taken also at the structure of Villa Serena in the Viterbese. It will be the judiciary that will assess the truthfulness of the exhibits. But, always with regard to the judicial apparatus and in favour of a maximum protection of the conditions of workers and families, we wonder why there are also two judgments of the tribunal of Tivoli-Sezione lavoro, n. 544 of 2012 and n. 1858 of the same year, which have sanctioned the reinstatement of 2 of the 10 workers in Cassa Integrazione, but who, after not a year, find themselves involved in the collective procedure object of this intervention. Of course, after the demonstration of the Executive against the judicial power on Saturday in Brescia we are no more surprised than nothing, but respect for the functions of the State cannot be overwhelmed by personal interests or, even worse, political power and clientele. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u78	Senator Fattori, did you formalize your requests in a question? FACTORS (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency will then call for an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-21.ana.u80	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 15 May, at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.06 a.m.
