ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pizzetti, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.40).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved changes and additions to the current calendar and, if there is interest from the House, the new agenda until 4 July 2013. Tomorrow morning, at 9.30 a.m., the Assembly will decide on the request for a statement of urgency, submitted by the Government pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft Constitutional Act establishing the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms. At the question time scheduled for tomorrow afternoon at 4 p.m., with direct television broadcast, the Minister of Economics and Finance will answer questions on government initiatives relating to the increase of VAT, the discipline of the IMU, as well as on the implementation of the provisions on the payment of debts of public administrations. Next week, starting from the afternoon session on Tuesday 18 June, the following topics will be discussed, already foreseen in this week's calendar: ratification of the Istanbul Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women, together with related motions; ratification of the Protocol of Understanding between Italy and UNESCO on the Secretariat of the World Water Assessment Programme; motions on the boards of directors of companies with public participation and motion Tomaselli on the Adriatic rail corridor. At the afternoon sitting on Tuesday 25 June, the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications on the European Council on 27 and 28 June. At the end of the debate, policy instruments could be voted on. Starting from the afternoon session on Wednesday, June 26 will be discussed the decree-law on energy efficiency and fiscal measures. The afternoon session on Thursday 27 June will be dedicated to the question time. The schedule of the week from 2 to 4 July includes, in addition to the possible follow-up to the decree-law on energy efficiency and tax measures, the joint discussion of the bill of European delegation 2013, the European Law 2013 and the Report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2013. The calendar can also be supplemented by government information on the recent attack in Afghanistan that caused the death of Major La Rosa, on developments in Turkey and on the incidents in Terni at the demonstration of workers at the former Thyssen.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for the months of May, June and July 2013: - Drawing of Law No. 587 - Delegation to the Government for the transposition of European directives and the implementation of other acts of the European Union - Law of European Delegation 2013 (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of Law No. 588 - Provisions for the fulfilment of the obligations deriving from the belonging of Italy to the European Union - European Law 2013 (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Document LXXXVII- bis, No. 1 - Programmatical report on the participation of Italy in the European Union, for the year 2013.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u6	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 4 July, pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Wednesday, June 12 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following bill n. 576 - Decree-Law n. 43, environmental emergencies and other urgent measures (It falls on 25 June 2013) - Deliberation on the request for a declaration of urgency, pursuant to Article 77, of the Regulation, on the draft constitutional law n. 813 - Establishment of the Parliamentary Committee for Constitutional Reforms (Thursday, 9.30 a.m.) Thursday 13 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 13 June pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance on the initiatives of the Government relating to the increase of VAT, on the discipline of the IMU and on the implementation of the provisions on the payment of debts of public administrations]] The calendar can be supplemented with information from the Government on the recent attack in Afghanistan that caused the death of Major Giuseppe La Rosa as well as the injury of three other Italian soldiers; on the developments of the situation in Turkey; on the incidents occurred in Terni during the demonstration of the workers of the former Thyssen. [[Tuesday, June 18 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 720 and related - Ratification and enforcement Istanbul Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) and related motions - Drawing of law n. 590 - Ratification and execution Protocol of understanding Italian Republic and UNESCO on the Secretariat of the World Water Assessment Programme - Motions on the boards of directors of companies with public participation - Motion n. 37, Tomaselli, on the Adriatic rail corridor Wednesday 19 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 20 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 20 June pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday, June 25 pom. h. 16 - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 27 and 28 June 2013 Wednesday 26 June ant. h. 9,30-13 - Drawing of law n. 783 - Decree-Law n. 63, regarding energy efficiency and fiscal measures (Presented to the Senate - final vote by 5 July - expires on 4 August) (Ove concluded by the Commissions) " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 27 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 27 June pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] Amendments to bill No 783 (Decree-Law on energy efficiency and tax measures) will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. on Thursday 20 June. [[Tuesday 2 July pom. h. 16,30-20 - Eventually followed by bill n. 783 - Decree-Law n. 63, regarding energy efficiency and fiscal measures (Presented to the Senate - expires on 4 August) - Drawing of law n. 587 - European delegation law 2013 (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 588 - European law 2013 (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Doc. LXXXVII- bis, n. 1 - Report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2013 Wednesday 3 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 4 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 Thursday 4 July pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law no. 587 and 588 (Law of European Delegation 2013 and European Law 2013) will be established in relation to the work of the Commission. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 576 (Decree-Law No 43, environmental emergencies and other urgent measures) (8 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 44' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 23' GAL 23' Mixed 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 783 (Decree-Law No 63, energy efficiency and tax measures) (8 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 44' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 23' GAL 23' Mixed 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for the joint discussion of draft laws no. 587 (Law of European Delegation 2013), 588 (European Law 2013) and Doc. LXXXVII- bis, No 1 (Report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2013) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 2 h. 19' PdL 2 h. 03' M5S 1 h. 27' SCpI 57' LN-Aut 53' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 47' GAL 47' Mixed 46' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u7	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 576.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u8	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the further amendment submitted by the Assembly 7.0.1000 (text 2), expresses, as far as it is within its competence, an opinion of simple opposition to the last period of the paragraph "Art. 7-a, paragraph 1, conditional, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, on the inclusion, at the end, of the following words: "Without prejudice, however, to the total appropriation referred to in paragraph 1.3 above." Therefore, if this rewording were not accepted, the opinion on that part of the amendment would be contrary, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. On the remaining parts of the amendment, the opinion is of no relevance.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u9	We shall now proceed to the examination of amendment 7.0.1000 (text 2), on which I invite the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u10	Mr President, I would like to move on to the next amendment 8.0.500/100.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u11	We shall then proceed to the examination of amendment 8.0.500/100, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u12	Mr President, my proposal is that amendment 8.0.500 takes as paragraph 2 the whole text of sub-amendment 8.0.500/100. We would therefore have a single article consisting of two paragraphs: the first is the text of amendment 8.0.500 and the second is the absorption of sub-amendment 8.0.500/100. We would thus have a single amendment on which the rapporteur's opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u13	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur on amendment 8.0.500 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u14	We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 8.0.500 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Colleagues, awaiting the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 4.48 p.m. and resumed at 17.01 p.m.) Colleagues, let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u17	EXPOSED by Stefano, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to announce that after the next vote we will have to ask for another short suspension because Amendment 7,01000 (text 2) requires further consideration to protect the measure. The House and the Presidency will forgive me, but I think it will be useful to grant a further suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u18	I would once again urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 8.0.500 (text 2) tabled by the rapporteurs, the second paragraph of which incorporates the content of amendment 8.0.500/100. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 576
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u21	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, I would like to point out that the voting mechanism did not work and so I was unable to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u22	I take note of that. As anticipated by the rapporteur, I suspend the sitting...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u25	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr. President, I'm only gonna steal you 30 seconds. It is clear that a suspension is not denied to anyone, but I have the doubt and the fear that it will be possible to conclude the parliamentary term before the examination of this measure by the House. We would therefore like to conclude the examination of the draft law when the work is resumed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u26	Thank you, Senator Calderoli. I want to make it clear, with regard to any assessment of what has happened before and the timing that has been adopted, that the choices made are justified by the need to conclude by waiting for the Government, the rapporteurs and the Commissions. So I can only take note of this situation. I therefore suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.05 p.m. and resumed at 5.32 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I invite the rapporteurs to tell us whether they accept the rewording of amendment 7.0.1000 (text 2) with the comments of the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u27	Mr President, I am still apologizing to my fellow Members, but we have traveled the last mile on time. I am therefore in favour of the amendment proposed by the 5th Commission and I would like to rephrase the amendment accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u28	I invite the representative of the Government to comment on amendment 7.0.1000 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u29	CIRILLO, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u30	We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 7.0.1000 (text 3). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the simultaneous vote by electronic ballot of amendment 7.0.1000 (text 3), tabled by the Commissions. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 576
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u33	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I would ask you to have a replacement card. I couldn't vote before.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u36	BEEPS (PD). Madam President, I too have not been able to vote and I ask that my vote be recorded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u39	AUGELLO (PdL). Madam President, I too have not been able to vote and I ask that my vote be recorded.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u40	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u43	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we can say that we finally come to the conclusion of this decree, which has long committed the Commissions and this House. The Mixed-SEL Group will abstain on this decree for a number of reasons. I repeat here the questions that have happened to raise this morning and during the debate on the fact that the decree was already born a bit like an omnibus decree, quite heterogeneous; however, it had a fundamental mission, which was to intervene and find suitable solutions with regard to the earthquake in Emilia Romagna. As far as we are concerned, we as a group have spent a lot of time... (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u44	I think it's impossible for Senator De Petris to speak in this rush. I call on those who wish to speak to come out of the Chamber. Let's respect the senator who's talking. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u45	Thank you, Madam President. I understand we're all tired, me first. We have spent a great deal of time and we have tabled many amendments to try, not to solve completely, but at least to make a real and effective contribution to reconstruction in Abruzzo. We believe that the situation of L'Aquila and of all the municipalities of the crater - I want to repeat it in an explanation of vote - is a national issue. Overall, our country should consider it as a priority to address and resolve this problem. We had also had a discussion before the decree was presented in this House, in which then Minister Barca had presented us with a very detailed report on what the necessary resources were. Similarly, mayor Cialente's hearings, as well as the representatives and mayors of the other municipalities of the crater, gave us a very clear picture of the situation. Those were the resources: nothing more and nothing less. It was necessary to invest at least EUR 1 billion per year for ten years to ensure the possibility of appropriate intervention. L'Aquila represents a heritage and not only of our country. Therefore, it is necessary for Italy to return above all the historical center of L'Aquila to the possibility, precisely, to return to be the heart of that city and - let me say - also of that Region. There have been many difficulties on these issues. The amendment that we have just voted on partially resolves the issue and allocates resources, but we all know that it is not enough. An agenda has also been adopted which commits the Government to identifying other resources: I hope that it will not end many other agendas voted in this House and that a political and moral commitment has been made here today to identify further resources in the Stability Act and other decrees. We have certainly worked with improvements to the decree, which has also intervened on other aspects, certainly not secondary, but I repeat that, in our opinion, we have introduced rules and amendments which had nothing to do with the object of the measure. I am referring in particular to the question, which was discussed yesterday, of the Third Pass and the compensation for the High Speed. We have approved amendments, for example the one tabled by the Government, which transfers competence on tourism to cultural heritage, which is right on the substance, but is totally unrelated to this decree. We have therefore followed a method of working, which many of us have also known in this House, perhaps typical of the last nights of the financial maneuver, with which everyone has tried to include in the decree of rules, or funding, for matters that were certainly not urgent. For these reasons, Madam President (I know that you are very sensitive to this issue), I believe that it is no longer possible to continue to deal with the instrument of decrees, which should meet the requirements of necessity and urgency, by addressing and placing within them a heterogeneity of absolutely foreign matters. We have already been referred to several times by the Constitutional Court and the President of the Republic himself for this reason, but we continue to do so. Perhaps this decree also had to take on the task of fulfilling - I say this with great frankness - a kind of lack of initiative of the current Government. This is a decree of initiative, precisely, of the Monti Government and, therefore, in running, the current Government, not having a great production of measures, has inserted within it a series of needs and initiatives that perhaps had to be addressed with measures to themselves. I believe that much better could have been done and it is not just a question of resources, because, among other things, Article 81 has been declared impervious, some amendments without these having any relevance from the budgetary point of view. Therefore, choices have been made which are absolutely unclear also with regard to the conduct of the work of deepening and the activity of both the Commissions and the Assembly. Improvements have certainly been introduced compared to the original decree-law: I think for example of the question of the industrial area of Piombino and the need to proceed to environmental interventions, also through the work of characterization. From this point of view there has certainly been an improvement. In our view, there is a lack of general reflection on the needs of this country's infrastructure works. That's what I'm saying about Piombino. I repeat, we fully agree with the need for a harness, but frankly we still do not understand the need to give priority to the other infrastructure, which is, in any case, referred to, namely the Cecina-Civitavecchia motorway, and the same goes for the question that we put very clearly yesterday about the amendment on the Third Pass. We have an absolute need - I repeat: absolute - to restore the priorities with regard to the necessary infrastructure of the country. This is all the more necessary because we have a very serious problem of resources; therefore, and even more so, the few resources in our availability must find a place and a gradation linked to the interests of the territories and to the priority of intervention. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we could have voted in favour, but - I repeat - the way in which we speak, the inclusion of a number of amendments, the dissatisfaction with, for example, the completion of the intervention in Abruzzo force us to vote in abstention. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u48	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Madam President, the decree-law that we are about to convert is certainly broad and complex, since it remedys a number of emergencies and problems in the area of environment and infrastructure, but it also intervenes for the revival of industrial sites, in the matter of post earthquake reconstruction, as well as to accelerate the implementation of the Expo 2015. It should be stressed that the Commissions have worked very hard and with a great spirit of cooperation. I should like to thank the Presidents of the Commission, Mr Marinello and Mr Matteoli, and the rapporteurs. This shows that when the interests of the territories predominate over the interests of partisans, of politics, they succeed in achieving good results. What, in our opinion, is the common denominator of such a heterogeneous regulation? These emergencies and problems always result from bureaucratic obstacles, often inadequate regulations and in any case denounce the inadequacy of the institutions. In this country, unfortunately, if you want to see a work done, you have to issue rules that bring derogations to a series of constraints contained in the current legislation and the commissioners are often the lever that is used to achieve some results. The key words of this decree-law therefore become the following: derogation and commissioning. We are convinced that a state is efficient and properly organized if it can respond with ordinaryity to emergencies. It is not possible to address structural deficiencies with emerging instruments. This is the case, for example, of my region, Sicily, where, as has been noted in many parts, landfills continue to be expanded. This may be in the emergency, but there is no doubt that it is essential to implement all those infrastructures aimed at preventing the emergency itself. And there will be an emergency after another, if you do not realize all those interventions already provided for by the law and by the Regional Waste Plan. The Great Autonomous and Freedom Group will vote in favour of the decree-law in question, because, beyond the considerations made and all the limits of the decree, it certainly meets the real and sometimes dramatic needs of the territories. We hope, however, that this Government will be a good Government and that it will take action so that we no longer have to deal with extraordinary interventions. In this regard we rely on the common sense of the Government, with regard to amendment 8.0.200 (text 2), in which reference is made to the precarious staff of the Office earthquake of Eastern Sicily, so that it can be judicially stabilized. Such personnel are used to prevent an event, such as the earthquake in Sicily and in the Etna area, which, as everyone knows, is an important and chronic problem: prevention can certainly avoid environmental disasters and even deaths. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u51	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Madam President, I take the floor to vote in favour of the Group for the Italian Socialist Party (SPI) for a measure expected by many communities. I have followed directly the procedure of the measure in the two Commissions meeting and I am also aware of the extreme urgency which is at the root of it and which has been perceived by all the members of the Commissions, both by majority and by opposition. In particular, the hearings of local administrators have made us all involved in the extreme emergency of this measure. Surely the work of the Commissions has greatly improved the content of the decree-law and I must thank all the Commissioners and the two rapporteurs, who have worked very strongly, because the measure was complex and I must say that it was not easy to ensure that it contained all the rules, however, between them very different and also related to different situations and cases. I think there has been a very different measure, but it has also dealt with some issues which, if faced with normal legal procedures, would have taken a much longer time, which the local authorities could not have endured. I therefore believe that some of the forces, which have actually been carried out within this measure, are more than justified by the objectives which they wanted to achieve. I would also like to highlight some of the secondary aspects of the decree-law, which we consider to be particularly important. Firstly, the revision of the Internal Stability Pact, which has been revised for some particular situations, but which we believe should be revised for all, at least for small municipalities. Today the decree introduces some positive derogations, but they are not enough. We hope that this House will address this issue as soon as possible, because many administrations are unable to move forward in their work and it is unfortunately not only the municipalities that are affected by this problem. I shall not dwell on the problem of so-called rocks and excavation grounds, because we have just solved it with an amendment. I would just like to thank the rapporteurs, the Government and the whole House for supporting it, because we have solved a problem that has been dragging on for years and that has put many administrations and many private companies in difficulty, especially handicrafts: this is therefore a proposal that goes in the direction of promoting the revival of the building sector, which is currently in serious crisis. We also welcome the adoption of the amendment introducing funding for the quadrupling of the Fortezza-Verona railway line, for South access to the Brenner base tunnel. For our movement, but also for the territories we represent, the railway investment is strategic and the road option now goes on the rails. It is therefore absolutely important for us to have included this provision in the measure under consideration. I also gave a positive opinion on the amendment - which was, in fact, forced - which provided for full tax deduction for liberal donations in favour of individuals - including public ones - who organize cultural, artistic, musical and tourist events or for the organization of exhibitions and exhibitions. It is true that the amendment dealt with a very broad subject, but it is equally true that this is also an emergency and I hope that the Senate will consider it as soon as possible. I am also preparing an initiative of law, because I am convinced that our cultural assets can be saved only by providing for the full tax deduction for those who support their restoration and their enhancement. I also welcome the novelty of the new Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism: this is a strategic combination, especially for Italy, which retains a huge cultural heritage. The ability to enhance our tourist offer with a historical, archaeological, cultural and architectural heritage that no one in the world possesses I believe is absolutely a strategic direction. The Gruppo Per le Autonomie-PSI therefore hopes that the bill of conversion will be approved and will meet the legitimate expectations of the populations affected by the earthquake, which today are exasperated. The Group also hopes that some expected standards will be launched for Expo 2015 in Milan, which aim to strengthen the economic image of our country. Above all after having attended the hearings, which have illustrated a dramatic situation, I would like to point out that unfortunately the emergencies in Italy are destined to remain so for too long: it would be the time that could be addressed in the short time that rightly this type of situation requires. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u54	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, with our explanation of vote we want to report directly to the President of the Council, Mr Letta, because without delay we want to clarify the position of the Group of the North Legacy on this urgent decree. This is a mess, messed up and confused, which, unfortunately, we also think is blackmailing Parliament. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] This provision carries with it the original sin generated by those who conceived it, namely the Monti Government, but it also weighs on the conscience of this majority, as an uncomfortable and certainly embarrassing legacy. You know very well, President Letta, that we are not the only ones to complain about this measure, but we are in good and authoritative company: even the President of the Republic, in fact, has never hidden its own sharp opposition and embarrassment when the so-called emergency decrees are transformed into omnibus decrees, within which everything and more is inserted, in the face of the coherence and the much-desired appropriateness of matter. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] On the other hand, this kind of decree was the specialty of the Monti Government, your stuff, and today's is the clear proof of it (only lacked trust, but we went close). However, it is the worst distortion of this measure, or rather, the obvious blackmail contained in it to leave us stunned: how can the commitment to earthquake zones and the shame of the waste of Naples coexist in the same decree? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Explain to us how it is possible to assess serenely the assistance to the earthquake victims of the Eagle - due and necessary - by uniting this tragedy with the chronic emergency of the waste of Naples, daughter not of a natural disaster, but of maladministration and disinterest. This is a clear blackmail to Parliament and to the Italians! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] In these words, President Letta, even if they seem to be overly loving you, we ask you to meet again, because they are in line with your words, those with which, when addressing Parliament, you accepted the appeal of the President of the Republic: This is the subversive language of truth. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Turning to the articles, within the measure we welcome the provisions of Article 5, aimed at facilitating the realization of the interventions planned for the Universal Exhibition of Milan, as defined by yourself, a great opportunity, that we must not miss. But then, why not recognize our proposal for the immediate totality of the Lombard Pedemontana, what work is necessary for the development of Expo 2015? We don't know. We do not oppose the recognition of the industrial area of Piombino as a complex area of crisis and the provisions planned and necessary for its relaunch. We note only with bitterness that our request, with which we asked to evaluate in the same way other important industrial areas in the North of the country, has not been considered. As often happens in our country there are children and stepdaughters and, by chance, when there is to cash the stepdaughters are always in the North! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I would like to focus on Article 4: the Apulian aqueduct is the only one on the face of the earth that, before satisfying thirst, satisfies hunger and this article, from the point of view of urgency, would have a logic if it were to definitively resolve the commissionerial management that has failed in so many years to carry out the necessary works for its proper functioning. The North League on several occasions in the past has demonstrated its opposition to the cheerful management of the Apulian aqueduct. Madam President, we have carefully assessed the measure, with the intention of finding within it that added value that could give a pretext to our Group to be able to express us with a positive opinion and, in this regard, in a collaborative spirit, we thought of proposing some added value to the Government. Since we are talking about environmental emergencies, do you find it inappropriate to include those regions that have been affected by alluvial events in the recent month of May and, in particular, Veneto? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bulgarelli.]] Is it or is it not an emergency that has caused more than half a billion damage in the Veneto region alone? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Airola]] No, it's not an emergency for you. For you the emergency is an additional article with which you plan to pass the skills on tourism from one body to another. Only the proposal to the Commission is embarrassing; it is shameful! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] However, only one consideration would be necessary to assess our proposal positively, also in the light of the assessments made on waste in Naples and Palermo. President Letta, let's give them, and quickly, the money to the Emilians, the Piedmontese, the Lombards and the Venetians, just for a simple reason: they offer the guarantee not to steal them. [[Comments.]] Like it or not, it is. We have never made great illusions that this Government could continue to tolerate pockets of privilege - so defined by itself - trying to bridge the atavic gap between North and South of the country. As the Head of State himself pointed out, we hoped for a new opening, a new impetus for society, in a blow to the South in order to lift ourselves from a spiral of backwardness and impoverishment. This provision is once again a bitter medicine; it will be due to the recalled original sin due to its genesis, but being the first true provision presented by its Government, if the good morning is seen from the morning, perhaps it is better not to wake up. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Without controversy, but with extreme frankness, we tell you that we expect much more from this Government; if Italians and the millions of young people who see every day the hope of a more serene future shrinks. There are urgent measures with policies for recovery; there will be better times for action! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bulgarelli.]] In the light of all this, a consideration is required. The line of credit, opened by the North League to this Government, is progressively reduced every day that passes. We have taken the commitment to evaluate every proposal of the Government and, in case, to become also the first supporters of those who do the interests of the country. In this measure there are too many issues which, disguised as an emergency, break with the principles of rigour and are, once again, bent on the logic of pure waste of public money! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I shall conclude, Madam President, by stating that the vote of the North League will be an abstention vote. A abstention is certainly not due to a willingness to cooperate with the Government, a collaboration already on the way to sunset, but only for the responsibility and respect of those citizens for whom the environmental emergency is a vital issue. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u57	WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure discussed in this House will be able to give a significant economic boost to the country, because it provides important resources, both with direct appropriations and allowing local authorities to intervene through derogations from the Stability Pact. So, our overall assessment is positive. Of course, Civic Choice would have preferred that some measures had been taken with a different iter, more respectful of the nature of the decrees law. The difference between emergency and structural intervention - in this draft law - has been objectively mitigated, almost to the point of disappearing. This approach risks compromising the serenity and linearity of the legislative process. A partial justification, there is the difficulty of implementing ordinary legislative procedures in a prompt and efficient manner, given the current legislation. Civic Choice is committed to removing these problems, in particular by proposing amendments to the Rules of the House and Senate. For these reasons we abstained on the inclusion in the provision of the transfer of skills on tourism to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities. With all good will, any principle of legislative coherence has been violated in this case too blatantly. A word about a merit aspect. We are not satisfied with the way in which the funds for L'Aquila have been found. A billion euros over five years - perhaps a billion and two hundred million - for reconstruction will be guaranteed by modest but definitive increases in stamp taxes. In our view, it would have been more appropriate to raise the funds by means of expenditure savings, for example by revising the system of contributions to enterprises, as was recently suggested by Mr Saccomanni. From a political point of view, we see the strong convergence and effective cooperation between the Groups that support the Government in the construction of this law. This is the attitude we prefer, in contrast to some positions of pure electoral propaganda on the government's fiscal policy assumptions, expressed in recent days by some members of the majority, and echoed also in this House during the general debate. The country needs concreteness, and it is tired of fanfare and flags. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u60	CIOFFI (M5S). Citizens of the Senate, good afternoon, we could have said if it was a good day rather than a bad one. In fact this decree that we are about to convert had such a complex and tortuous iter that it gave us the impression of having entered a port of fog. We have spent 25 days studying, listening, amending, evaluating, voting on amendments and agendas with an impressive series of stops and go to envy an inflamed machine. When we were out of here, we often described Parliament as a highly inefficient car, as a tank that consumes four litres of fuel to make a kilometer. We entered the Palace with the iron intention of transforming it into a car that makes twenty per litre or even better in an efficient and silent electric car, and to this we should tend; but the process of this decree was that of immersion in a molasses. The embarrassment of the Presidents of the Commissions 8a and 13a says a lot about the irritality of the path of a measure that comes from the Monti Government and ends with the Letta Government. A different Government that approves a measure of another Government would seem a sui generis thing except that the political forces that support the two governments are exactly the same. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We are faced with the continuity of a system that perpetuates itself, beginning with the highest offices of the State, in order to reach the approval of this bill n. 576. Why have the citizens sitting on these bars lost their desire to change? The Italians asked you and you did nothing but reply yourself. Why didn't you have the courage to accept the standardization demands of a decree-law drugged by derogations, extensions, exceptions to return a process of ordinaryity to a country exhausted by non-compliance with the rules? It is the upside down world, ladies and gentlemen: a world where revolutionary action is carried out in accordance with the rules. Here, we have become citizens who walk upside down, suspended from the ceiling, but in the belief that they are right on their feet. We're gonna have to start looking at each other from the outside. We're gonna have to start picking up a ghost vision. As Professor John Keating said, we need to get on the bench to remind ourselves that we always have to look at things from a different angle. It's just when we think we know something that we need to look at from another perspective. This is the meaning of our presence in these classrooms: that of telling you that we must think and act to change the status quo. Outside the Palace, the social crisis is very strong and we have a duty to act without cinching; yet in the decree-law under consideration, called the "emergencies," the pressures between the parliamentarians and the Government have produced almost a paralysis: Piombino, waste Palermo, purifiers Campania, Expo, earthquake, in short a mixed fried of heterogeneous problems. For the Expo, for example, it is necessary to approve a suspension of the prerogatives and state legislation in order to allow a single subject, a single Commissioner, and three deputy Commissioners to manage in total autonomy and lack of control the funds necessary to carry out a demonstration comparable, due to commitment of expenditure and complexity, to an Olympic. As it is, we cannot approve this measure, because, dear citizens of the Senate, it is an act of unconditional surrender. With this decree-law we write in cubital characters and for the umpteenth time that this country is not able - and perhaps never will - to manage a great manifestation by ordinary means, planning in time and building a path shared with the citizens. When did we lose this ability? You don't have to know that. However, my friends of the Movement and I have had an even worse feeling: the feeling in this House that we have not lost the confidence in the Italians' abilities, we simply consider them an obstacle, a useless harp of which we would gladly do without. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I see you're very careful. Did I just tell you that we consider citizens a harp and you don't give a damn? Excuse the term. [[Comments of Senator Centinario]] Congratulations on your expression, partner. This is because Italian citizens are not stupid, they are generally people of common sense, who ask sensible questions, such as the following: why does the organization of the Expo start with enormous delay? If the Expo is so important, if it represents such an unrepeatable opportunity (these are words already heard in this House), why not leave in time, coordinating the actions necessary for the success of the event? Why choose again, after the innumerable failures, the path of police management? Because that is what this is all about: immense police management, one of those that, of course, the law categorically excludes. Maybe because the cake to be divided is big and is throaty to many? I ask you, but we do not expect an answer, and not if the Italians expect it, not anymore. You have even exhumed the competence of Civil Protection for the great events, which also caused so much damage; you invented the single commissioner and gave him an immense power, for the umpteenth time. Can a police station last since 1994? We will all be led to say no, but an amendment was tabled to the Commission, signed by the rapporteur, to extend the administration of a number of purifiers in the Puglia region. Is it possible that after 20 years there will continue to be a request for the extension of a police station? Not to mention the demand, coming from several quarters, for the overcoming of the limits linked to the Internal Stability Pact, which it assumed in 2012, during the Monti Government, supported by the same majority that supports the current Parliament adopted a resolution on the European Union's relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. If the political groups themselves who have entered the balance of the budget into the Constitution by amending Article 119 now ask to be able to use sums outside the rules that they themselves gave themselves, how do they stand before those outside the Palaces? With what consistency? Already, consistency: the consistency that is also evident from the attempt to include in a decree-law issues that are unrelated to the body of the text, such as some rules concerning the managers of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, rules that are absolutely not of the nature of the urgency that must characterize this kind of measure. At last sitting on 6 June, a colleague of the North League said: We have all pretended, since it contains important and unavoidable elements, that there were constitutional presuppositions of necessity and urgency. We have pretended: it has been said in this House. Here, once again, legislative power is brought from the place where it is owned, Parliament, to the place where it should be enforced, the Government. This is to overcome the slowness of the legislative process, they say the most, but in this way we tend more and more to expel Parliament from its primary functions. Already since the mayors' season, which began in 1993, power has been centralized by the elected bodies to those appointed, the municipal councils, with the consequent emptying of the functions of the municipal council. At the central level, the instrument of urgent decree has increasingly been used and Members have sat comfortably without rebelling. The human soul is like this: it always tends to favour comfort rather than fatigue, the way down rather than the way up. And so, in Parliament and in the Commission, we simply raise our hands and give up critical thinking. The ability to fight for the respect of democratic rules requires effort and commitment. It requires to be a voice outside the choir. It requires to say, to shout that a girl cannot be Mubarak's niece: one of the most degrading moments of the autonomy of thought. In this way, with the amendments tabled to the decree-law under consideration, we continue to put in it rules, rules and foreign arguments for the sole purpose of making soon, in order only to satisfy localistic aspects and appetites. Gentlemen, if we could bring back the focus of those who sit in this House on the real problems of people, perhaps we could be quick in evaluating and approving draft laws and finally bring the system back to normal. The derogations that continue to be made on the legislative structure are also the daughters of a logic to be condemned, to be eliminated. The democratic exercise is tiring and cannot be exhausted by the speed at which amendments and agendas are examined and voted and by the slowness with which they bounce between the Government, the Budget Commission and the Commission public works. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, while appreciating the efforts made to improve and free up resources in favour of the earthquake victims of Eagle and Emilia, we declare our vote against the measure, hoping that we will no longer have to participate in this race in the rage, in this race of exasperating slowness. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u63	Matteoli (PdL). Madam President, as President of the 8th Commission, I should like first of all to thank all its members and the members of the 13th European Parliament. Commission, even those who are part of political opposition movements. I have to say that, unlike what happened in this House, there has been some cooperation within the Commission. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs, particularly Senator Stefano Esposito, who has carried out the greatest work of this complex measure. I would also like to thank the members of the Government who have followed in their relations with the Commission, which I have all found very cooperative. Decree-Law No 43 of 26 April 2013 is a sort of omnibus measure, emerging, inherited from the previous Government, that the Commission works public, which I have the honour to chair, has largely modified together with the Environment Commission, chaired by my colleague Marinello, and the current Executive. If we go to read the title of the measure, which refers to the words "environmental emergencies," and then consider everything we have included in it, we note that the environmental aspect has become secondary to the provisions that the Senate Assembly has approved. This is therefore a very complex and complicated measure, the examination of which has been undertaken assiduously by the Commissions and the representatives of the Government. I can say with absolute sincerity that the work produced is positive. When working with mutual collaboration, the fruits are reaped, and this is certainly a good signal for the Government, for its majority, but above all for the country. It is a complex measure, it has been said (all those who have spoken have emphasized it), that it could also be examined by favouring the ideological convictions of the various fellow senators. I am not saying that this was not at times present in the debate and in the tabling of amendments, but essentially the Government on the first serious appointment with Parliament has held up well and has been properly supported by its majority. And that is the most important political aspect. The most important measures concerned the industrial area of Piombino (compared to which I have heard so much nonsense), the Expo 2015 in Milan (also so many inaccuracies have been said in this regard), the environmental emergency in Campania, the management of waste in the city of Palermo, the measure in favor of the areas affected by the earthquake in Abruzzo, Emilia-Romagna, Molise. With regard to Piombino we have not been able to solve all the open issues concerning the Tuscan city, where there is a risk of an even greater occupational and productive suffering not only in the steel plant. I have heard criticisms that I have no hesitation in calling absurd. Obviously we do not know the history of that area, of what from an occupational point of view represented Piombino, which - be careful - from the political and electoral point of view has never given satisfaction neither to me nor to my party, because it has always voted on the other side. When I turn to the many Members who have entered Parliament in a somewhat aggressive way, I say that the needs of the citizens must be taken into account. However, we do not know what we are talking about when we criticize the fact that Parliament takes a certain measure for a given city. First with the ILVA, then with the Italsider: over 10,000 employees plus 10,000 in the induced. When the private (Lucchini) arrived, which guaranteed just over 2,000 jobs compared to 10,000-12,000, the whole city of Piombino, which voted for 60-70 percent on the left, applauded the new master thanking him for securing 2,000 jobs. But there are also the Magona d'Italia, another factory that counted thousands of employees, today reduced to a few hundred; the ENEL plant in Torre del Sale, which ENEL would like to convert to coal. But the city protests and the power plant risks closure: other jobs at risk. Piombino also has beautiful places that could be exploited from a tourist point of view, see the Gulf of Baratti. Unfortunately, however, the number of employees would cover a few dozen jobs. And I could go on. This decree-law opens therefore some possibility and perspective regarding the occupational throw again starting from the harbour infrastructure. We know that Piombino needed even more substantial measures, but it is an important first step and I am surprised by the criticisms we have heard. As for Expo 2015, the aim of the measure is to simplify the commissioner structure by bringing it into a single figure to make procedures easier. The Group of the PdL looks at this appointment with great attention because it is a great opportunity not only for Milan and Lombardy, but for the whole country. The center-right government has worked with great commitment for the Expo. It is right, however, to remember a centre-right mayor, who strongly wanted him, and a left-wing mayor, who carries him forward. This is the Italy we want: an Italy that thinks it big. What does Expo 2015 mean? Senator Mirabelli has already said some important things, which I share. It will not just be new infrastructure, which will remain available to citizens. Think of the Singapore Expo as having 60 million visitors. In 2015 visitors will not only stop in Milan, but will have the opportunity to visit our beautiful country and thus bring wealth not only to Milan and Lombardy, but to all the cities that have tourist characteristics. The Expo is therefore definitely to be wanted, trying to make sure that it has the best success, because it is Italy that presents itself to the world through Expo 2015. For the part of the decree concerning earthquake interventions in Abruzzo, we know perfectly that the decree could not solve all the problems, especially financial ones, that stand in the way of the reconstruction of the areas falling back in the crater of the earthquake. We are aware that the funds allocated are not decisive, but it is also true that the Commissions meeting 8a and 13a before, and the House, afterward, worked with the representatives of the Government to try to meet the right demands of the people of Abruzzo. We hope - and we will ensure that this happens - that the Government takes further account of the situation in L'Aquila. The reconstruction of the historic center for its beauties cannot be a problem of Abruzzo or Aquila: it is a problem of all Italy, it affects all Italy. On the other hand, immediately after the earthquake, it was possible in record time to build a roof for thousands of people. Now we need just as much strength and determination for reconstruction and I hope that the present Government, which has a very strong parliamentary force, will be able to unravel a skewer that has tangled up for its widespread responsibilities. The Group of the People of Freedom will therefore vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator Bulgarelli. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u66	FILIPPI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Representative of the Government, with the approval of this measure, the Letta Government, while inheriting a scheme of decree from the previous Government, had the opportunity to prepare the first significant responses to the situations of major emergency present in the country today. We go from the recognition of the complex industrial crisis situation for the industrial reality of Piombino - with this measure extended also to that of Trieste - to the environmental emergencies and disposal of waste of Sicily and Campania, to that of the recent seismic events of Abruzzo and Emilia, extended with this measure also to Molise, in addition to the commitments undertaken for Basilicata, Calabria and Umbria, up to the solution - hopefully of absolute guarantee - for the international commitments that have been assumed by our country for the realization of the Expo 2015, which we have always considered a great opportunity for Italy, as my colleague Mirabelli has well expressed. Finally, there is also a first significant compensation, really intervened to record time, for the tragedy consumed in the port of Genoa, demonstrating, for once, to unite to the necessary sensitivity also the immediate concreteness. In short, there is enough to look easily, I would say without too much effort, at the glass half full contained in this measure. In the explanation of vote, however, there are also other assessments which I believe to point out to the attention of this House, for a more thorough assessment of the measure, which can also go beyond the mere merit of the content, of which we are nevertheless satisfied, thanks in particular to the work done in the Commission, which has enabled it to improve not a little. A first necessary reflection I think should be opened from the methodology used for the examination of this act, which has also manifested obvious limitations that it would be wrong to ignore. In fact, while confirming the validity of a model experimented usefully in the last legislature with the Monti Government, as we appreciated, not everything is smooth. A model that probably deserves to be preserved anyway, because at the moment the only one able to regulate a relationship not always easy to define between Parliament and the Government in the examination of the decrees, that is urgent measures in which the centrality of the Parliament often clashes with the prerogatives of the Government; but, in this particular case, as has been recalled, without the maxi amendment on which in the past generally trust was placed and which closed the measure in fact, there have been important difficulties in the relationship with the Committee on Budgets and within the Government itself. Despite this, once again, even with all the limitations of the circumstance that I have recalled, even for this provision it has been shown that the decrees of the Government born under the impulse of necessity and urgency can then be further improved in the parliamentary classrooms, where there is a desire for listening and confrontation. We are sincerely grateful to the Government for this! A measure, let it be said to the end, that although limited to the scope of some of the main emergencies present in the country, to them did not respond fully in resolving terms and sometimes not even in fully satisfactory terms. In fact, a measure that is mainly characterised by measures derogating from ordinary rules and extending deadlines, combining requests for resources not available in the reference markets or potential ones. Precisely for this reason, in need of extraordinary and exceptional resources, he knew his natural torsions precisely in finding the resources initially not foreseen. If this is definitely physiological for emergency or disaster situations, it probably is less so when derogations and extensions are also required and planned for the realization of major events or to face complex crisis areas or environmental emergencies that have been going on for years. And this is not paradoxically, unfortunately, precisely when recent measures taken by Parliament had excluded the possibility of using them, or when in other ways extraordinary resources are used to try to achieve infrastructure allocations that should have already been in the availability of those realities, especially in sites where they had long been to be an essential element of development. Even from this provision, however, we start, for this new legislature, in a path that, as we know, promises to be uncertain, tormented and fragile, but precisely for this reason also fascinating for the mail that is at stake: an objective represented by the need to return normality to a country that too often realizes to exist and to claim attention only in the class of its representations. A country that needs emergencies to function, justifying derogations and extensions and with them recovering resources otherwise unavailable, as we know, is a sick country! And it is good for this sick person that we pay more attention to our care. And then, starting from this measure, it really is necessary that in our next parliamentary work we can trigger a common and ulterior whisper of responsibility, not so much and not only to seek (and perhaps find) solutions more satisfying to the situations of exceptional crisis or calamitous emergencies that have marked us so in recent years and that obviously we hope do not have to repeat, but above all to try to reform those essential tools to give functionality to a country that in everyday life knows the deepest aspect of its current crisis: that of a State that for a long time is no longer able to give adequate answers to the concrete needs of its citizens. From this provision, I believe, at least the need to take seriously a strict law of delegation for the reform of the code of contracts, now become, together with the code of the road, for example, one of the many lunar codes of this country: illegible, incomprehensible and no longer amendable. And we are talking about the most common codes in their daily application and use. If this Government, together with a better functionality, always to be recorded in a phase of start as troubled as the one in question, will decide to extend the look also to structural reforms, it must know that it will find a Parliament attentive, competent and sensitive to the real needs of the country and perhaps together we will also find the key to the exit from this crisis, that for too long lasts without finding adequate and convincing solutions. For us the solutions cannot be constituted by contexts in which the scenarios of the government action are characterized by the systematic recourse to albeit good and esteemed extraordinary commissioners, be they the Presidents of our regions or mirrored and esteemed technical. We cannot and do not want to stop dreaming - and for this reason demand - of a country in which exceptionality and extraordinaryness find answers with the ordinary tools of good administration and with the transparent work of people for good, who put the common good before the interests of part and, most importantly, the individual ones. We are convinced that this Government has in its heart the stamp of these registers, which we do not just want to evoke for easy rhetoric, but for them to truly constitute the polar star of government action. For all this, while aware of the limits that this measure still contains, especially with respect to expectations, but also in the awareness of the many correctives and integrations produced, both in order and in terms of resources, we will certainly not miss our strong vote in favour. Finally, let me also thank all those who, in the narrowness of time and in the greater resources that the current economic situation has imposed on us, have allowed with their work and dedication to contribute so significantly to the improvement of the measure, starting from the work carried out by the rapporteur, Stefano Esposito, who was the true guardian of the measure, to the seriousness and dedication demonstrated by the Subsecretaries, who have escorted the measure in the parliamentary committees and in the Assembly, to the sensitivity of the Presidents of the Commissions Matteoli and Marinello and to the serious and responsible work really of everyone - no one excluded - the senators of the Commissions of merit, who have made possible the result that has been determined. Finally, allow me to express my sincere and perhaps most sincere thanks to those who have helped at all times our difficult work behind the scenes: I am referring to the officials and officials of the Senate, the Government and our parliamentary groups. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u67	I would like to say that the proposal for coordination C1, which is being distributed and which I would ask the rapporteur to explain, has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u68	Madam President, if there are no objections, I do not explain the proposal for coordination, since it has been distributed. However, I would like to read the integration of the title of the bill of conversion, which is added to the title of the provision which was sent to the Senate: Transfer of tourism functions and provisions on the composition of CIPE. Madam President, on behalf of the whole Senate, I would like to reiterate my thanks, which I had already expressed at the opening of the sitting and which I believe should be repeated for the work that has been done in this House, the offices of the 8th and 13th Commissions, the offices of this House and all the officials and managers who have supported and assisted us, allowing us to complete this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u69	I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteurs. It's approved. With the warning that the Presidency will be deemed authorised to make any further changes to the formal coordination that may prove necessary, I put to the vote the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 26 April 2013, n. 43, laying down urgent provisions for the relaunch of the industrial area of Piombino, to combat environmental emergencies, in favor of the earthquake zones of May 2012 and to accelerate the reconstruction in Abruzzo and the realization of the interventions for Expo 2015. Transfer of tourism functions and provisions on the composition of CIPE. It's approved. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u71	You have the right to do so. (Brusio). I would ask colleagues to leave the Chamber with a little silence to allow the senator to speak. DI GIORGI (PD). Madam President, I would like to put to the attention of this House an issue that concerns children and families: it is a very serious, very serious incident, which happened at a school in Florence. This may give rise to further doubts, given the social context of that city. The episode occurred in recent days and was consumed at the expense of a ten-year-old during the time of recreation: therefore, at school during school hours. According to the first journalistic reconstruction, the child, victim of abuse, is a pupil of a primary institute of the city and has long been the subject of psychological, physical and verbal violence by a group of about ten peers, schoolmates: a very serious fact, as is any action of coercion, form of violence or overwhelmment. This is even more intolerable... (Brussio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to leave the Chamber in silence because Senator De Giorgi has a real difficulty in getting her voice over the bustle. DI GIORGI (PD). I understand the tiredness of colleagues after the examination of the measure that we have just completed, but please listen to my brief speech, because it is a phenomenon that directly involves many families throughout Italy. There are some elements of gravity that are probably not even reported. Many families live these episodes in silence, in absolute silence, and also in solitude, and the children unfortunately report damages that sometimes make themselves felt over the years: I talk about children and children, because they are often teenagers or even high school students. This happens on school hours. The school should represent the space of coexistence and civil and social growth. As you know, the episode in question is really bad: the child was tied up and then attacked with punches and bites. So, something really bad to hear and read in the chronicles. Of course, the figure is not only Italian; we are talking about Tuscany, but the figures are also very heavy at European level. The European bullying research, which is part of a European project against bullying, shows that 15.9 (so almost 16%) of the students interviewed were bullied and that most bullies are classmates (48 percent) or students of the same school (23 percent). Similarly, according to the survey on the conditions of childhood and adolescence in Italy conducted by Telephone Azzurro and Eurispes in 2011 on a sample of nearly 1,500 students aged between 12 and 18 (this is the highest age group), the forms of prevarication commonly put in place are the dissemination of false or bad information via the web. This is new, another form of violence, different from fists and bites, but nevertheless a type of violence - as we know - which led (and we have also talked about it in this House recently) to the suicide of a teenager. I believe that all this can be fought with a big investment within the school.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u72	[[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Minzolini.]] Teachers must be trained in order to be able to work on this front and must have the tools: this is also up to us, colleagues. We will have to try to put new funding into our future political and parliamentary action to support the government, if we can do so, precisely because there are the tools available to our school to oppose this phenomenon. Because it's a matter of... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u75	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Madam President, I would like to bring to the attention of the House and the Government - and I hope that the Presidency will be able to complain - yet another crisis situation of the DDway company, of the Dedagroup group, which recently announced 119 redundancies, of the 294 planned, only in the city of Turin. This is yet another very hard blow for the Turin ICT (Information and Communication Technology) system, already hit hard by the crisis of the great structure of the CIS (Consorzio per il Sistema Informativo). This company in December last year had been sold by the American multinational CSC to Dedagroup with the usual promise, evidently not maintained, of employment development and preservation. We are faced with yet another very hard cut. Until this moment the negotiation had remained at Assolombarda level, because the legal seat of the company is in Milan, but in front of the negotiation the company has closed any opening. I ask that the Government pay particular attention to this issue, in close relationship with the Piedmont Region that is dealing with it, to finally open a national table. Perhaps the time has come - and I think this will be the subject of a parliamentary initiative - to face a very serious debate on the crisis of one of the most important regions for our country, one of the regions that still produces large shares of GDP. Piedmont has a traditional industrial settlement, but it is also very important compared to ICT, and it is suffering hard hits day after day. Perhaps the time has come for a discussion within the parliamentary classrooms with the government to understand whether extraordinary initiatives are not necessary to block this kind of decay. [[Applause from Senator Di Giorgi and Senator Caleo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u76	Senator, we'll be representing the government with your solicitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u79	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would just like to point out that yesterday I was present in this House and I always took part in the votes, but it seemed to me that the device did not receive two of my votes. I wanted to clarify this particularity.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u80	We note this for the purposes of the minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u81	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-06-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-40.ana.u82	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 13 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.46.
