ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. The first question will be asked 3-00174 on initiatives in education and education for the respect of gender identities. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u4	Madam President, with regard to the initiatives that the Ministry is taking to ensure that the issue of respect for gender identities is included in the national educational objectives, it is pointed out that the subject is dealt with in the context of the teaching of citizenship and constitution, introduced by Law No 169 of 2008, and in the context of educational projects on the problem of legality, active at schools of every order and grade. It is also aware that the phenomenon of violence against women and domestic violence has, in recent times, become very concerned about a civil society. For this reason, during a revision of the guidelines concerning the above-mentioned teaching of "Citizenship and Constitution" there will be no shortage of giving even greater emphasis to the theme of equality education, with particular reference to the prevention of discrimination and sexism, attitudes that could degenerate into pathological mechanisms of violence against women. It should be noted that specific teaching paths are being studied, to be introduced into citizenship education, from the beginning of pupils' schooling. It is also believed that the topics under discussion should also characterise the planning of training activities aimed at teachers, school managers and ATA staff. Such initiatives could be carried out in partnership with the Delegated Ministries for Equal Opportunities, Youth Policies, Integration, Work and Social Policies and Health, with the involvement of associations and movements engaged in concrete actions to support victims of violence. The contribution of those who know the damage and the consequences of the phenomenon could in fact constitute an added value to inform, in particular teachers and school managers, about the factors that can affect the educational success of pupils living in family contexts at risk. Regarding the transposition into the textbooks of the indications contained in the code of self-regulation prepared according to the project POLITE it is recalled that, starting from the school year 2014/2015, the school publishing will have to adapt the texts of primary and secondary schools of first degree to the contents of the new national indications for the curriculum, issued by ministerial decree n. 254 of 2012. In this perspective, it is reassured that the Ministry will promote a specific work of awareness towards publishing operators in order to promote, in compliance with the freedom of the press constitutionally guaranteed to authors and publishers, the adoption and dissemination of the aforementioned project.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u7	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Toccafondi, and I am satisfied with what he has announced. This Parliament has just ratified the Istanbul Convention in which it is believed that in order to combat and remove the structural phenomenon of feminicide the school plays a fundamental role in fighting for overcoming cultural stereotypes. Because it is from there that this phenomenon is born: a violent male reaction to women who violate the stereotype, unfortunately very rooted in our country, which compresses the manifestations of freedom, of free expression of their individual subjectivity. Very well, training is essential. Above all, they could already be included in programmes aimed at teachers starting from their initial training during active training courses. It is essential that textbooks also incorporate the POLITE code on which the association of school textbook publishers worked together with the Ministry. It is important to stress that it is at school that we can really educate new generations of men and women who respect individual differences and freedoms. It is at school that we can teach girls that it is only with study and with work that they become really free and it is at school that we can teach our daughters also to grow up in the awareness that a slap is a slap and it is never love. We therefore thank you for this commitment. This Parliament, and in particular the 7th Commission, will monitor the work together with the vast world of female associationism, which is committed - precisely - to promoting gender difference: a true culture of gender difference.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u8	Question 3-00202 follows on from initiatives aimed at preventing and combating prejudices and sexual discrimination at school. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u9	Madam President, it is recalled that the planning and implementation of anti-discrimination initiatives has already been launched since 2007, with Directive No 16 of 5 February, containing general guidelines and national actions for the prevention and fight against bullying. Compared to the more specific problem of homophobia, there are several initiatives aimed at combating the phenomenon. Already in the parliamentary act, reference is made to the "Week against Violence" which takes place every year from October 11 to 17 in schools of every order and grade, and to the "World Day against Homophobia and Transphobia," which takes place on May 17 of each year. On these occasions schools carry out educational activities consisting of information and awareness-raising actions aimed at students, parents and teachers of schools of all levels and levels, on the prevention of violence, racial, religious and gender intolerance, as well as of all forms and causes of discrimination. During the week against violence, students have the opportunity to engage with police experts and operators in order to gain a better knowledge of the legislative instruments in force in our country. Also with regard to the initiatives carried out on the subject, it is recalled the establishment, in the Directorate-General of the student of the Ministry of Education, of the telephone assistance service via the toll-free number for bullying, to which the victims of discriminatory attitudes that degenerate into persecutory acts can be addressed. The protocols of understanding with the National Forum of Parents' Associations of the School (FONAGS), called to collaborate with the aforementioned student's general direction to realize opportunities for meeting and sharing among pupils, families and operators in the sector, so that the exchange of different professional experiences is an incentive for moral growth and educational action of students. For a better sharing of experiences and campaigns carried out by the regional school offices, the Ministry has also created a portal "www.noisiamopari.it" that highlights positive initiatives on the topic, with the aim of sharing educational programs that the partners of the network also carry out at local level. In particular, the agreement with the Network RE.A.DY (National Network of Public Anti-Discrimination Administrations for Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity), which was established in 2006 at the initiative of a group of local and regional administrations and aims to promote gender equality policies, respect for sexual orientation and gender identity, and to disseminate good practice on national territory, is recalled. As far as training for school staff is concerned, the topics under discussion should undoubtedly characterise the planning of training activities. As already mentioned, it is considered appropriate that initiatives be carried out in cooperation with the other administrations involved, as well as with associations and movements committed to providing support to victims of violence. Among the initiatives already undertaken, it is recalled the partnership launched by the Directorate-General for Educational Staff with the National Observatory bullying and doping, a non-profit association that aims to carry out communication campaigns throughout the national territory for the prevention and contrast of bullying and doping, considering these phenomena as factors of conditioning the behaviour and lifestyle of the youth population. A joint national working group was set up with the task of designing and planning awareness-raising, information and training actions aimed at all school members, to promote initiatives and events that promote reflection on the educational value of sport practice and on the correct lifestyles to be assumed for a conscious democratic participation in the life of the community. A three-year memorandum of understanding is also being signed through which to carry out training activities focused on the educational value of professional paths carried out by people in the world of culture and sport, who have pursued their objectives in ways and values that can be an example for students.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u12	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Toccafondi for his answer to the question. I am pleased that the Ministry has reiterated its commitment to those actions put in place in recent years, such as the two Internet sites "smontailbullo" and "noisamopari," the agreement with the RE.A.DY network and the activities undertaken on the occasion of the Week against Violence. I also warmly welcome the commitment made here that the subjects in question, in particular the training of the teacher on prevention and the fight against homophobic prejudice, should undoubtedly characterize the training planning actions of the Italian schools. The fact that we have reiterated these commitments here is, I think, a good thing. However, I must note a lack of response to one of the questions I asked, how the Italian school can be adapted to a new phenomenon, but always increasing, which is investing it directly and which is left directly to the good will of managers, teachers and educators who are confronted with the problem. I am referring to the presence in schools of children who grow up in same-parent families, i.e. with two mothers or with two dads, and for this reason they need a special accompaniment for their integration, so that their situation does not become an element of discomfort and difficulty, because of the lack of knowledge of a reality that represents a novelty for many schools. I hope that further study can be carried out on this subject in order to understand whether and how the Government, in particular the Ministry of Education, University and Scientific Research, intends to address it. With regard to the question of the participation of the Ministry of Education in the national strategy for preventing and combating discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, on which the Ministry of Equal Opportunities has also prepared and planned an involvement of the Ministry of Education, I imagine that I can consider its responses as a sign of the Ministry's participation in that strategy. It will only succeed if the actions are shared between the different departments and ministries of our Government, precisely because it is a cross-cutting strategy. In conclusion, I think it is very important that the objectives and intentions expressed here can be in some way shared operationally with the Italian schools; very often, in fact, the ministry circular very positive and completely shared, such as the one that the Ministry spreads on May 17 on the occasion of the International Day against Homophobia, does not always succeed in having an operational relapse in the Italian schools. I therefore hope that an operational effort can be made in this area so that concrete instruments can be put in place so that the planning, in this positive sense, of the Ministry can become active policy and training design in Italian schools.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u13	2 00054, by abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure, and related questions 2,00013, 2,00027 and 2,00028, and questions 3-00267 (already 4-00266), 3-00268 (already 4-00096), 3-00269 (already 4-00097), 3-00270 (already 4-00213) and 3-00272 (already 4-00380), on the management of identification and expulsion centres (CIE). I give the floor to Senator Giovanardi to explain together the questions nn. 13, 27 and 28.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u14	Madam President, my illustration will be quite detailed because I hope that this time (and I stress this time) the Government will provide a positive and equally articulated response to a problem that comes from afar: I remember that the CIEs (historically called differently) were introduced into the Italian system by the Turkish and Napolitano ministers. At the time I collaborated, even if from a position of opposition, to the elaboration and introduction of this instrument that, in the original intuition, of which still remains trace, had to be realized in centers in which to retain, even if not under prison regime (because the CIEs have never been prison institutions), people who refused to be identified not declining their generalities or, worse, subjects who left the prison after having served prison sentences for having committed a crime and had not been identified even in those structures, which the penitentiary administration should have done and which still does not do. All these subjects, therefore, were held in the CIE pending expulsion. You will remember the debate that took place on this subject at the time of the Prodi Government because it was rightly necessary to conclude agreements with all the Mediterranean countries, starting with Albania, but also with Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria, so that, on the basis of an activity of collaboration with their Governments, people who had no title could be repatriated to stay in Italy or subjects who were often involved in various crimes, such as aiding prostitution or drug dealing. This was the original intuition and, in fact, today's CIE (repeat, before they were called otherwise) had been built in such a way that those who were hosted there - the only limit was the ban on leaving - were treated properly. Volunteering associations (Red Cross, Brotherhood of Mercy and so on) were involved and adequate appropriations were made available per capita. In fact, within the CIEs the presence of cultural mediators was necessary, medical assistance 24 hours a day, adequate assistance also from the point of view of food in order to allow the various groups present there to maintain their religious traditions and beliefs (e.g. those of Muslims). Moreover, in many centres there was - and I believe there is still today - an air conditioning system to be activated, rightly, in summer. This, I repeat, happened in some centres. I know, for example, those in Modena and Bologna, certainly infinitely better, from the point of view of toilets, our prisons but also of many of our hospitals. It is clear that this type of treatment led to recognition of the possibility of maintaining this standard of quality per capita. Let's forget the speculations that appear on the various sites dedicated to the theme. I would point out, however, that my twin brother was hospital chief until a few months ago and also president of the Confraternity of Mercy of Modena, honorary office for which he never received a euro, not even for reimbursement expenses. This Brotherhood had concluded an agreement with the center of Modena, and in Modena and Bologna it was known that the management of these centres was always very transparent and open. In fact, when the Ministry of the Interior kept saying not to let journalists and televisions into the CIE, I always advised my brother not to follow those provisions. After that, all the speculations of those who wondered what could happen within the IECs would fail at the time when journalists were allowed to enter so that they could verify what the situation was. I am talking about those experiences, and not about other experiences in other parts of Italy, which I do not know. The maximum transparency was the best thing to guarantee, thus maintaining a relationship not only with the press, but also with all voluntary associations, with the local authorities, with the municipalities, so as to make the CIE something transparent where everyone could go to check how guests were treated and what kind of reality, adapted to humanitarian standards, could be guaranteed to those who were to be identified and then expelled. What's going on? When the Monti Government arrives, the Ministry of the Interior decides that the amount per capita, which for small centres was about 70 euros, had to be fixed instead in 30 euros per guest; therefore there was a change from 70 to 30 euros, but with 30 euros you had to guarantee the same treatment as before. It is clear that this, from the beginning, was impossible. I would point out to the Undersecretary that it did not take much intelligence to understand this: for centres that have between 200 and 400 guests, as in the South, and those that have 60, as in Modena, or 80, as in Bologna, it is clear that the amount per capita is different, because the fixed costs are the same for everyone. 50 euros could be established on the one hand and 30 euros on the other; instead, 30 euros for all. What happened? Who showed up to run these centers? Unfortunately, in Modena and Bologna, and now in Milan, "L'Oasi" has appeared, a Sicilian cooperative, through a certain Marco Bianca, who boasted to be friends with the prefect of Modena Basile, who retired a month ago. That prefect, when he was in Syracuse, had given to the cooperative "L'Oasi" the center of Syracuse for private negotiation. Clearly, we've been worried about who these gentlemen were. In the last legislature, acts of inspection union were also signed by the prefect Senator De Sena of the Democratic Party, by the former prefect Senator Serra of the Union of Christian Democrats and Centre, by the former prefect Senator Lauro of the People of Freedom (that is, three of the most authoritative prefects of the Republic). These things were said in detail, but we have never had an answer to any of the questions that have been repeatedly presented in the last parliamentary term to Minister Chancellors: the Ministry of the Interior has never responded. Now, we found in Syracuse that these people were already members of the Alma Mater cooperative, which had obtained funding for the Cassibile immigrant center, but the poor management of the center had forced the City of Syracuse to open a dispute for lack of reporting. Then there was the referral to judgment of Marco Bianca, so all a history of poor management of the centers. In Modena there was a race: the Brotherhood of Mercy offered 60 or 70 euros; of course the prefecture said it was too much, absolutely not possible. Afterwards we learned from the newspapers that, in private negotiations, the management had been given to the cooperative "L'Oasi," which won the race also in Bologna (in Modena it won nothing because there was nothing to win). I make an inscription: only a week after the prefecture of Bologna had revoked, for continuous non-compliance (then I will enter into the substance), the convention it had entered into with "L'Oasi," the prefect of Modena Basile signed the convention, when he had never signed it before. What was the behaviour of this cooperative, of those who alternated with the consortium presidency and paid for the transfers? For example, Mr. Emanuele Midolo was sentenced by the judge for the preliminary investigation of the court in Syracuse, on 19 October 2011, to the sentence of four months of imprisonment for the crimes of material falsehood committed by the public officer and of material falsehood committed by the private. The conviction was defined by plea, so it is final: everything was published in Modena. So it was a management made by people who had criminal precedents; a management made in such a way that from the beginning these people never paid their salaries. The staff were not paid: the prefecture of Bologna and then the prefecture of Modena had to intervene to pay instead of the cooperative "L'Oasi" (which, I repeat, never paid wages, or paid them with months of delay), in a situation in which local authorities, trade unions, humanitarian organizations, who have repeatedly been interested in the problem in recent months, have made gruesome reports on the lack of management of those centers. Moreover, someone should also explain to me, first of all, how it is possible with 29 euros to guarantee the treatment that even in the chapters is foreseen, therefore cultural mediation, medical assistance and so on. Secondly, they should explain to me from the Ministry of the Interior what a Sicilian cooperative comes to do in Modena, Bologna and Milan. On yesterday's "Corriere della Sera" you can read who showed up in Milan to manage the center: the cooperative "L'Oasi." Rightly, the Red Cross said that it would not at all be willing, with only 29 euros, to manage a center that, for that amount, it was absolutely not possible to administer according to the criteria of reception of guests prescribed by the Ministry of the Interior. The Sicilian cooperative "L'Oasi" is therefore also present in Milan. Having had in Modena - and colleagues know this - a white list problem, because of fears of mafia infiltrations after the earthquake (and I hope that today the Government with a decree-law, after accepting an agenda in the Senate on this subject, can clarify the issue better), I made a joke saying that the prefecture of Modena should have given itself the anti-mafia ban. In fact, while the bans on Modena companies are declared, healthy, created by honest Modenas, for alleged knowledge or relative - having assumed a laborer who has turned out to be the brother of someone who in Crotone is linked to a 'ndrina, therefore for sociological or parental reasons - the fact that the prefecture in Modena calls for private negotiation a cooperative that already has certain precedents in Syracuse, with its inside condemned characters, seems not to arouse any concern. Not only that. What happened this year? As colleagues who have presented bipartisan interrogations can also testify, to the proliferation of trade union, social, humanitarian and party initiatives, the answer was absolute silence. They're still there, so to speak, managing the center. Failures are continuous and the treatment of guests is below any standard. I remind the Ministry of the Interior, since this ingenious intuition of 30 euros would save, the enormous damage caused in the centers by the guests who destroy everything forcing the Ministry to carry out repairs that cost hundreds of thousands of euros, if not millions. Someone should explain to me the overall logic of what is happening. In Modena it is thought that the owners of the cooperative "L'Oasi" are super-recommended and that the Ministry there is someone who covers them totally. I would point out that after the change of the prefect of Modena something incredible has happened. In Bologna, the Convention was revoked because, when the inspections were carried out, what was wrong was detected and put it in black and white. In Modena, the old prefect never made an inspection and therefore according to Mr. Bianca, the management is perfectly in order because no one has ever detected anything. Only a month ago, with the arrival of the new prefect, inspections began and hot water was discovered, that is, what everyone in Modena had repeatedly denounced. Mr. Undersecretary, I think the government needs to make a serious argument. It must be understood whether or not it intends to maintain the CIEs, which, in my opinion, are of a function. In fact, you can say what you want, but if the CIEs were adequate (in addition there is also the collaboration of the Army, which in Modena has 10 men for external surveillance, not armed naturally), rather than having 40-50 men on the territory in front of the houses of the citizens - which would increase the social alarm because many of them are prone to crime having no other forms of subsistence - the idea of keeping them in a controlled place, waiting to be identified before the expulsion, would not be a peregrine idea at all. I therefore believe that, at the time, the idea of Napolitano and della Turco was good. But if this idea is realized in a situation in which expulsions are not made (or only rarely), internal management is a disaster and the police themselves can no longer do so, the Ministry needs to make a decision: or it keeps these centres properly - allocating what is necessary for their maintenance and involving, through calls, voluntary associations aware of what they are called to do and with standards recognized by humanitarian associations that guarantee their ability to carry out the function entrusted to them, within the centers - or else close them. In fact, it is useless to be in a situation of this kind, which also discredits the original idea. I said they're not for closure. I repeat, the whole mechanism of international agreements is an intelligent response to an existing phenomenon. I am for integration, as I have said a million times. Every year we celebrate ethnic parties with all ethnic groups, from Filipinos to Senegalese, from Ghanaians to Chinese, they are all friends. But they too know how to distinguish between good people and bad areas of people coming to Italy only for criminals. I also know that millions of good Italians have gone to the United States. But among the good Italians there were also Al Capone and the Mafia. Rightly, the United States rebuffed the Mafia, and it is not that our honest emigrants were so happy to live with the ill-fated phenomena that came from Italy. The need to identify and expel (simply bring back to their home) people who are in Italy for criminals or who refuse even to be identified and to say who they are seems absolutely acceptable to me. Then you have to see what the best tools are. As for the three, four or six months of detention, we can discuss it, but it will hardly be possible to discuss the fact that a State cannot even bring back to their homes people who refuse to be identified, who do not say who they are and who live on gimmicks or crimes. It would then mean that we surrender, that we invite millions and millions of people to come to Italy, that we are the Eldorado of the world and also the only country in which everyone can do as they please. But this choice would not be paid by the government, but by ordinary people, especially those who live not in the upper quarters but in those where they live with these forms of crime. Mr. Representative of the Government, if the things we have said and written - not just me, but colleagues too - are not true, tell us. Tell us that we have the wrong information, that "Everything goes well, Madame Marquise," that "The Oasis" is an excellent cooperative, that the services and treatment within the CIE are adequate and fair. It means we'll be back with another intel after we get more information. But since it seems to me that what we have written and documented, from the beginning, is a bit surreal, the question remains: what are we doing in Milan, Modena and Bologna cooperatives that, from the beginning, are not able to manage similar structures? What do they get in exchange for the 29 euros per capita? What are the goals? Why are they coming to work in the North? Why, accustomed to a standard of services of a certain kind, does our society have to endure such situations? Why has the Ministry of the Interior never responded after months, months and months and years of public complaints and parliamentary interrogations made by everyone? Why is this madness of 30 euros maintained for everyone, who has neither head nor tail? I would like to see an opportunity on this occasion, happy with the presence of a State Secretary who has deepened the matter, not for an interim, banal or bureaucratic response, but for an answer to help solve this problem. I also remember the difficulties of the employees, some of whom are desperate, who have undergone anti-union activities and who, due to the lack of payment of the salary, have seen their lives upset and had terrible family repercussions, such as the cutting of utilities and eviction. But this kind of failure comes from the state, because every time I have been contacted I point out that a parliamentarians, more than asking questions to the government and raising the problem, cannot do so. So, I expect an answer this morning that will at least give the start to the solution of the problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u15	I call Senator Vaccari to explain Question No 54, by abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u16	Madam President, Mr Giovanardi, ladies and gentlemen, I too will try to document and detail the issue that Mr Giovanardi has already mentioned. The abbreviated interrogation that I have presented with other colleagues on the serious situation of the centres for the identification and expulsion of Modena, Trapani and Bologna follows the questions that Mrs Orrù and Mr Puglisi, Mr Lo Giudice and I had already submitted about each of these centres. The events that have occurred in the last month, especially at the CIE in Modena, are so serious that they require an immediate and clear response from the Government that no more situations of objective and, alas, predictable insustainability in the management of structures such as these are repeated. I remember, in fact, that all three CIEs are managed by the same cooperative, "L'Oasi" of Syracuse, which has been awarded the management of the centers in the presence of different evaluation criteria and oriented to the maximum decrease. This occurred, for example, in May 2012, when the Bologna Prefecture banned the management of the CIE via Mattei with the criterion of maximum decrease and the auction base was 30 euros per day per person: the cooperative "L'Oasi" won the management of the structure with an offer of 28,5 euros per person per day, compared to 69 euros paid to the previous manager. The story of the CIE of Modena is in this emblematic sense. From 2007 and until 30 June 2012, the city's CIE was managed under contract by the Brotherhood of Mercy, which received from the prefecture of Modena 75 euros per day for detention. On February 15, 2012 was published the notice for the custody of the management, which established as the auction base the share of 30 euros per day for retained, with presentation of the offer by March 15, 2012 and award previewed through the criterion of the maximum decrease. The CGIL of Modena immediately argued, together with many other forces, that the auction base was not sufficient to ensure compliance with the specifications and at the same time compliance with the laws, rules and contracts and that the criterion of the maximum decrease ended in fact with preventing participation in the notices precisely to those companies that offer greater guarantees of reliability. The only offer presented was that of the Confraternity of Mercy of Modena which, however, was not taken into account because it exceeded the established auction base. The prefecture of Modena has therefore activated a restricted procedure, through invitations to tender, to which only the cooperative that I mentioned has presented itself, that has been awarded management with a decrease of 3% regarding the base of auction, and therefore 29,1 euros per day for retained, taking over, therefore, from 1 July 2012, in the management. Since the beginning of the management, the employees of the consortium have had difficulty in receiving their salaries, and only the payment of these by the prefecture, pursuant to Article 1676 of the Civil Code, has allowed, on several occasions, to unblock the situation. In fact, while the July 2012 salary was paid late, those of September and October were not paid. After several unsuccessful promises by the consortium, the Public Function-CGIL proclaimed a strike for December 10, 2012 and only a few days before this wages were paid, following an interest in the prefecture of Modena. On 25 January 2013, a new strike was proclaimed. The day before, the Interior Minister pro tempore Cancelleri, visiting Modena, had announced that the workers would be paid within a few days. On the contrary, the monthly payment of November 2012 was made only at the beginning of March 2013, paid for one party by the consortium "L'Oasi" and the other by the prefecture, pursuant to the aforementioned article of the Civil Code. After another four days of strike, which took place between February and March, the prefecture was then fully charged with the payment of the monthly months of December, the thirteenth month of 2012 and those of January and February 2013. The same situation was repeated in the following months. Since the beginning of the management, therefore, only one month has been paid regularly to the workers; the others, late, have been paid by the prefecture, but since May the workers of the center receive no pay. Moreover, it should be stressed the turnover of as many as four directors, sometimes for the failure to pay their own salary, what has made impossible any stable internal planning of the activities and any effective relationship with all the parties involved, inside the center and outside it. On Saturday 6 July, in the face of the continuing and acute problems, the CGIL of Modena proclaimed six more consecutive days of strike for workers operating in the center. This fact, apart from pointing out once again the unsustainability of the situation, would certainly have represented a very delicate problem for the safety of the centre itself, knowing what repercussions it could have on the lives of the detained, then 36, a suspension of the services, especially at the start of the period of Ramadan. Once again, only the intervention of the prefecture has led to an initial suspension of the strike, in the face of commitments made by it to the workers. However, the workers' strike, extended, began only on Tuesday 23 July and will continue until Sunday 28 July. As is well known, a strike of this length is not allowed by the legislator, which allows a maximum duration of 48 hours. For this reason, the Commission guaranteeing the implementation of the Act on strike in essential public services has opened a procedure for non-compliance with the Modena Public Function-CGIL. However, this procedure was immediately closed by the Commission, which opted for no need to provide either for workers or for the trade union, declaring that there was an exception of non-compliance. In other words, the Commission has recognized the failure of the consortium so serious that it considers it legitimate for workers to join a more extensive strike than the 48 hours allowed. The Commission's decision to recognise an exception to non-compliance has, however, occurred in rare and very serious cases since 1990 to date. But the action taken by the Guarantee Commission has gone even further. The Authority has in fact decided to start a survey of the real reasons that prevent the consortium from regularly paying its employees monthly. The Authority's letter to the consortium was sent on 10 July, but no answers have yet been given. This fact, Mr Undersecretary, is by no means irrelevant: it is the first case in which the Guarantee Commission moves in order to ascertain responsibilities for administrations that contribute to increasing the level of conflict rather than attenuating it. And we can well imagine that this practice initiated by the Commission on the issue of the CIE in Modena will be repeated more and more often in relation to the increasingly frequent situations of non-payment of wages to workers. Moreover, after meeting with the CGIL public function and the workers on several occasions, on Saturday 6 July I personally carried out, as a surprise, along with Mr Baruffi and Patriarch, a long visit to the centre, where we could directly find the deficiencies complained from several parts, a decidedly inadequate quality of the structures, an unsustainable sanitary condition and an exasperation of the retained also resulting from this state of things, which becomes even more unsustainable in the summer months of the year. On Thursday, July 11, the Finance Guard of Modena then searched the offices of the consortium inside the center, under the mandate of the public prosecutor Marco Niccolini, to shed light on how sustainable it is for the said to manage a structure with only 29,1 euros per day for retention. As you know, the situation at the CIE in Modena then fell in the last week, following the outbreak of some riots by the guests, which caused estimated damage from the prefecture between 50,000 and 70,000 euros and the arrest of nine Tunisian citizens. On Monday, July 22, a hearing was held in front of the gip, following which three of them were placed in prison and the release with obligation of residence for the remaining six. However, the reasons for the revolt declared by the nine Tunisian citizens were so serious and attributable to the presence of hygienic conditions in the extremely precarious center that the gip has postponed the acts to the prosecutor for the verification of any crimes against the manager and the AUSL of Modena, previewing a direct interest also of the mayor of the city for reasons of public health. The dramatic situation of the CIE has also been confirmed by the national secretary of the SIULP Felice Romano, who a few days ago declared in a note that the center is now a lager for immigrants and policemen. A similar behavior to that maintained towards the workers of the CIE of Modena the cooperative of Syracuse has shown it also towards those operating in the centers of Trapani and Bologna. In Trapani, despite the irregularities detected by labour inspectors in the management of the CIE, on 16 January 2013, the consortium "L'Oasi" expressed the intention to hire 15 new employees, although unable to pay regularly the salaries to the more than 50 workers already in service at the structure. In Bologna, since the start of the new management, the assignee consortium has not paid salaries to the 29 employees (as in Modena, the figures have been anticipated by the prefecture of Bologna). The situations described therefore require urgent intervention from the Government, to which we ask, first of all, what actions it intends to take in order to guarantee the workers and the law enforcement forces that operate at the CIEs and if it does not consider that the adoption of the modalities of award of the contest according to the mechanism of maximum decrease has proved inadequate to the management of the aforementioned centers. We also ask whether it does not consider that there have been serious, repeated and systematic violations of the Convention by the same consortium, which would result in the withdrawal of the Convention. Finally, we would like to ask you, Mr Secretary, if you do not consider it useful to start serious reflection on the usefulness of the identification and expulsion centres in order to assess the possible inadequacy of the IECs with respect to the objective of reducing irregular immigration, since, in the opinion of the respondents, they do not correspond to the characteristics and requirements set by the Ministry itself. Perhaps the time has come to address the issue of overcoming the IECs and replacing them by means of identification, and possibly expulsion, more respectful of the dignity and fundamental rights of people. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government may reply jointly to the questions before him and to the related questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u17	Madam President, in explaining the matter, Mr Giovanardi, to whom political intelligence is certainly not lacking, asked questions that had all the taste of rhetorical questions. The Government is fully aware of the situation and I fully agree with you, because the data you have available, as well as those illustrated in the second intervention, are exactly the same as the Government has. Senator Giovanardi also invited me to give a non-trivial and bureaucratic answer; the same intent I believe was intuition in the second questioning that was placed. I will proceed, then, in an unusual way, even if my technical offices probably do not appreciate my decision: I will avoid reading to you the answer that has been prepared for me, of which I will then hand over the text, precisely because I would like to avoid giving a banal and bureaucratic answer on issues of such importance and instead I would like to get to the heart of the problem immediately. The heart of the problem is unquestionably the auction base set (of course not by this Government, but with those cadences to which we made first reference), to the maximum decrease, to 30 euros per day per person. This has led to a distortion of access to the convention, because very often races must be deserted, and just as often there is only one competitor who makes the proposal and inevitably wins the contract: in the case of Modena it is "The Oasis," and I would not be surprised that it was also in other locations, since, as we all know, it is competing at this time for the CIE in Milan, where it will probably remain, once again, the only competitor. What can be done? In the meantime, I would like to reassure everyone that this Government and, in particular, the Ministry of the Interior have a particularly benevolent or even cover attitude towards the prefecture of Modena, because that is not the case. In fact, given that the termination of the contract is still the responsibility of the local prefecture and not the Ministry, we are evaluating all the failures that have been recorded and that - alas - are now beginning to be many (even if they interfere with the existence of criminal processes, that have seen involved the insides and the managers of the center), in order to verify if the extremes exist in order to be able to resolve the relationship with the cooperative "The Oasis." This, from a strictly limited point of view to the relationship between the CIE of Modena and the cooperative "L'Oasi." More generally, given the economic constraints we are currently facing, I think we can imagine intervening on two fronts. The first front obviously concerns the activity of a more exquisitely administrative nature; the second front is of a regulatory nature, and obviously requires, therefore, a gestation and political support of a different type. From the administrative point of view, the possibility of modifying the auction criteria, fixed in the 30 euros per day per person and in the maximum decrease, can be considered on the basis of that famous decree of Minister Maroni of 2008, already recalled several times. Of course, this must be done in accordance with the economic resources that can be found, otherwise, if economic resources cannot be affected or if sufficient economic resources cannot be obtained, we must imagine working on the list of services, i.e. reducing the services that can be provided, in order to make the economic resource competitive, if it remains as scarce as the one that is provided today. The other intervention, which I believe is in line with what you said, Senator Giovanardi, could be to diversify the access prices, with reference to the number of people present in the centers, so that there is not a single contract in all of Italy that regardless of the possible economies of scale that the presence of a sufficiently large number of people can allow, compared to the centre of smaller dimensions. These, with unchanged resources - because, of course, if we managed to recover more resources the problem would solve itself - could be two of the aspects on which I do not find it difficult to say that the Government undertakes to intervene. From a more general point of view, there is probably the possibility of rethinking the structure of the CIEs, not to eliminate them radically, as we have already said, but to eliminate certain twists that involve almost exclusively a spending of money without being able to achieve the purpose that has been set. One such twist is given precisely by the example that you, Senator, made, that is, by the presence of subjects moving between the prison patriae and the CIE and that, after having been in our prisons for years, are not identified. Well think that, after these subjects have been detained for five years without being able to identify them, this is possible in the year and a half in which they are held inside the center, I do not mean that it is pure madness, but it is very close. Moreover, in a certain sense, the permanence in the CIE is psychologically much more grievous than that in prison, so it can give rise to phenomena such as those that have occurred in Modena, for the excellent reason that the penalty has a beginning and an end that are marked by a judicial provision and the subject that must face it knows exactly the path that must take. Not in the CIE: you enter today and you could go out tomorrow, in a week or even after 18 months. So, after one has already paid the bill with justice without it being actually generalized, this probably causes a state of mind that can affect the overall conditions. I used the example only to say that, without suggesting a suppression of the centers, because in my opinion they are also necessary in certain respects, we can rethink certain ways. Then, from an administrative point of view, the speeches that I have come to mind are the first two that I have represented to you; from a regulatory point of view the path, of course, is longer and needs a very substantial support, even a parliamentary one. We'll see if this government can get it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u18	Undersecretary Mr Manzione, the Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text to be published in an annex to the Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u21	ORRU' (PD). Madam President, I would like to say to the Under-Secretary of State, Mr Manzione, that I appreciate the almost immediate answer to the question which I was first a signatory to - as my colleague Mr Giovanardi also pointed out - related to the question put on this subject. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary for the speed with which he has responded. This shows that the issue of the CIE, placed in the two acts of inspection union, is not only thorny and open, but also concerns a management that has unfortunately become ordinary, sometimes (in fact, more than "sometimes") not respectful of the practice of human rights. It has become almost a national emergency. It's a very sad story. It will not take me as long as I have available because I am partially satisfied with the answer, and I will not read the written text of my speech, in which I set out a few points. I very much appreciate your initiative in wanting to make changes both at the regulatory and administrative levels, but first of all there should be an administrative intervention, which is the fastest and perhaps most urgent one, because the contingency is that of immediate management. As my fellow Members have said, although it is right to change everything over time and to regulate tariffs (the current legislation provides for the most advantageous offer for services), it is necessary to provide for diversifications, as you suggested, in a careful and careful manner. It should be done by those who really know the problem and know what types of management it is, because the services - I remember - are not all the same. Therefore, I am satisfied from this point of view, but I am only partially satisfied, because it would take a short time, so it would be necessary to intervene immediately. My colleagues spoke about the management of the CIE in Modena, but we could talk about Bologna, and there is a real emergency in Sicily. In my question, as you will know, there was no mention of the situation in Lampedusa, which was already the subject of a question which was put in May and which has been defined over the last few days. It is absolutely necessary to intervene, first of all, because, in addition to the legal question of identification - which is not simple at this time, as you, Mr Undersecretary, have pointed out - we must not forget human rights, which are fundamental. So we are talking about two very sensitive and important issues, which involve the whole nation, in different areas.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u24	THE COURT (PD). I too thank the Undersecretary Manzione for the informality, immediacy and sincerity of the answer. I am also pleased to have heard a number of common intentions in the answer given to some of the requests made in my question, but in general in the acts of inspection union that we are discussing today. I would like to make a couple of specific comments. The first concerns the subject of the race to the maximum decrease. I am particularly pleased that today the Government, in the person of the Undersecretary, distances itself from a way that has clearly proved inadequate. While it is true that the criteria for the management of the centres had been defined in 2008 by the decree of Minister Maroni, you mentioned, last year the next Government had claimed the rightness of that choice, on the occasion of the holding of a question submitted to the Chamber regarding the CIE of Bologna, on the basis that these measures had already worked for the CIE of Trapani Milo. Then it was not necessary to wait too long to understand that it was not working in Trapani Milo, neither in Modena, nor in Bologna and that it will certainly not work in Milan, where the consortium "L'Oasi" is preparing to win that race. So there is a very important and urgent problem to be solved, because - as Mrs Orrù rightly pointed out earlier, to which I agree - we are in the presence of a daily violation of human rights and the dignity of people, who are in that situation without necessarily having committed criminal activity (because those who did so are in jail) or refusing to be identified: there are people who are in those places without being criminals and refusing to cooperate. Therefore - I repeat - it is absolutely urgent that we rethink the way these centres are allocated, because every day that goes up to EUR 29 per person means violation of fundamental human rights. First the Undersecretary said - I imagine he said paradoxically, that it was a rhetorical passage of his speech - that a hypothesis could be to reduce services. In fact, there is no longer any service to be reduced under these conditions, as there is no legal assistance and the provision of meals and clothing is not guaranteed, provided as a minimum element directly in the conventions. Finally, undersecretary, you have suggested a rethinking of the structure of the IECs because they cannot be considered to be abolished. However, we must remember that our country was subject to sanctions by the European Union a few months ago for inhuman and degrading treatment in its prisons. Our country is a country in which centers of identification and expulsion in the judgment of all - I see that she shares - there is an even greater violation of the fundamental rights of people, because not only of the level of management of the lives of these people from the technical-operational point of view and of the provision of the minimum services, but also of the management of the psychological dimension of people who are seen locked up without the fixing of a term, often without a reason, in the face of the failure of a migratory project, who do not know when they will come out, if after a day or a year and a half. Under these conditions, I believe that the issue of the abolition of IECs cannot be dismissed as an unlikely hypothesis. The problem of identifying people who want to be expelled remains. I remember that the mechanism of the identification and expulsion centers allows today to expel only 50% of the people locked up and identified, which represents only 1.5% of the irregular immigrants present in our country. It is therefore clear that this is a mechanism of identification and expulsion which, with regard to the objectives that had been set, has demonstrated all its limitations. In the absence of structural measures that are actually able to radically change this situation, I believe that the possibility of closing the IECs and identifying them in another way should also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u27	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Madam President, unlike my colleagues, I have to say that I am doubly satisfied with the answer given. First of all, the Government has shown interest, and I thank the Undersecretary for coming to this House this morning, to take note of the problem and to propose solutions in a non-tribal and bureaucratic way. It remains unclear, and I ask the Undersecretary, why for months and months, in the face of specific and detailed questions, the former Government has been silent. They are involved prefects, including that of Modena, and a Minister was in office; I would like to know why the prefectures of Modena and Syracuse, where custody took place through private negotiation, have never found non-compliance, allowing the cooperative "L'Oasi" to say today that they have never received any kind of sanction from the competent authorities. There is certainly something to be verified, even to prevent such situations from happening again in the future. I would point out that these are situations born in 2012, when the best offer was the most advantageous compared to the services offered. It is in 2012, with the Monti Government, that the issue of 30 euros comes out, totally detached from the services that must be offered. Who gave birth to her? Even then it would be interesting to have information, in order to prevent such situations from happening again in the future. Secondly, I am satisfied with the commitment made in the meantime to review overall the problem of parametrics of the resources already available, for their better use. I understand that the state budget is divided into expenditure chapters and therefore we need to draw from another chapter the hundreds of thousands of euros that are needed to redo the centres, but which in the meantime are closed and therefore cannot even meet the needs for which they were created. A mechanism must be found before, as usual, the Prosecutor of the Republic intervenes with arrests; it is appropriate that the competent authorities, as in Bologna, ensure the withdrawal of this Convention. It is not always necessary that the judicial authority arrives at the end, when things are now evident; it should be the Executive and its peripheral structures, as in Bologna, to resolve the case even before criminal or criminal situations are detected. Thirdly, in concluding, I am available - and so is my political side - to a serious rethink. This is a strange country, because every time there is a murder, a robbery, a rape carried out by a person who should have been expelled there is general indignation and they say: but how, this person is irregular, he has had the decree of expulsion and is free to kill, rob and rape? Of course: if there is not a place to hold it pending expulsion, there is a real danger that such things will happen, that the order must avoid. With regard to how to reconcile public security and the necessary expulsions, except for exceptions (but this is a right deepening to do), it is clear that in the CIE should not be held back the colfs and the caregivers; the CIE is not the place where the police and the Carabinieri to make statistics have to go and see if there is the Russian caregiver or the Ukrainian who maybe have the visa expired. On this, intelligently, the Ministry of the Interior has always said not to turn a blind eye, but that the CIEs do not serve after the roundups made to the market in the morning to welcome the poor caregiver or the colf waiting for the expulsion. When the colleague spoke of 50% of the expulsions, it must be said that we are referring to expulsions of the kind of people who ate an ear to the policeman: those who are expelled are characters who rightly are better off in Italy. Then, I also know that there is the problem that the countries from which they come are carefully guarded against identifying them, because they do not want them; there is therefore a problem of identification linked to the fact that the Tunisian says he is Moroccan, while Morocco says he is Algerian. I am therefore doubly satisfied, naturally waiting for the commitments and considerations expressed this morning by the Undersecretary to be followed by the concluding facts.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u30	VACCARI (PD). Madam President, I too would like to thank the Undersecretary for the frankness and informality with which he wanted to answer and respond to our questions, because he spoke of distortion at the time when we were talking about allocation criteria such as those we have mentioned and because he said that the extremes are being considered in order to resolve the contract with the cooperative "L'Oasi" in Modena. Mr Secretary, I would ask you to make it quick, because the situation, as well as the serious situation, is no longer to be postponed. I believe that even from the data I have tried to bring, in addition to those of which you certainly had, it emerges that the time has come for that structure to be restored and the workers can be guaranteed differently from the continuation. I believe that the openings made by the Undersecretary on the subject of rethinking the administrative aspect of the management approach are equally important, even on the political and regulatory side of the idea of reforming the structures of the IECs. I believe that they also need a cost-benefit analysis, as Mr Lo Giudice tried to highlight, but above all a new approach to the original one. If the Government asks - and if it does not do so, we will do so as parliamentarians - a collaboration to open this debate in a broad, frank and comprehensive way, it will certainly find in the senators and senators of the Democratic Party people able to offer contributions of merit, also in order to avoid that this identification system goes to harm the rights of the people, as it is already happening for too long, and instead to make sure that it finds its own effectiveness within the overall security system that our country has to equip itself. This is to prevent people like the Albanian worker, whom I had the opportunity to know, who came to work in Modena for a construction company and was stopped with the residence permit expired a few days ago. This is a twist that is added to the others that we must try to eliminate as soon as possible from our system.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u31	Question 3 00075 follows on urgent measures to counter illegal political propaganda in the electoral campaign. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u32	Madam President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Capacchione and others put to the attention of the Government the issue of abusive advertising during the last local elections, with particular reference to the municipalities of Maddaloni and Marcianise, in the province of Caserta. Indeed, during the administrative consultations of 26 and 27 May, the prefecture of Caserta proposed to the political forces participating in the electoral competition the signing of a protocol concerning the overall framework of the rules governing the conduct of electoral propaganda. The above-mentioned act, to which all parties represented in Parliament, in addition to numerous civic lists, joined, together with the representatives of the police forces, in drawing attention to the activity of posting electoral posters, also stressed the obligation of exclusive use of specially reserved spaces, as well as the duty of municipal administrations to ensure the removal of abusive posters or posters outside authorized spaces. In this regard, the commands of the municipal police of Maddaloni and Marcianise have promptly activated to suppress this phenomenon. In fact, numerous administrative offences have been found against clients and candidates for elections and, therefore, activated the consequent operations of obscuration. In particular, 226 minutes of administrative illegality were adopted in the Municipality of Maddaloni, with the darkening of about 550 abusive posters, while in the Municipality of Marcianise there were 44 investigations. It should be emphasized that already in the first days of the election campaign, as soon as the phenomenon has manifested itself, there have been prompt initiatives of contrast, also thanks to the help of the police, that in the Municipality of Maddaloni have contested about 250 violations. The question refers to the request made by one of the candidates for the office of mayor to the competent office of Maddaloni for the same to arrange the posting of posters in the electoral spaces. In this regard, the local authority has specified that, according to the municipal regulation, such activity has never been managed by the employees of the billing service. With regard to the allegations of abuses of electoral propaganda, the law enforcement authorities informed the judicial authority in good time. Finally, with regard to the alleged episodes of vote of exchange, the prefecture of Caserta has, as has also been pointed out by the local press, constantly monitoring the situation by providing precise indications to the police for the strengthening of the services of prevention and control at the polling stations, repeated also for the operations of balloting, inviting to report facts attributable to possible hypothesis of crime. Finally, I want to ensure that the local situation is followed with constant attention by the prefecture - as is natural - which, within the powers conferred by the law, carries out the necessary activity to ensure conditions of transparency of administrative action.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u35	CAPACCHIONE (PD). Madam President, Mr Secretary-General, I am partially satisfied with the answer. Perhaps I would have preferred a more impromptu and arm-to-arm replica, like the one that was made for the CIE of Modena, because this is too bureaucratic and too lacunacy. I see the Undersecretary is smiling, so you must have realized that too. Unfortunately frequent incidents were reported in the question, especially in some southern municipalities with high infiltration of camorristic and mafia, but they were reported mainly episodes of votes of exchange and electoral corruption, sometimes documented, also in this last election campaign, by local blogs, local broadcasters, also by individual candidates, who would deserve much more attention and much more concern from the territorial office of government, where I myself had made a report, asking for attention that for the truth there was not. They are apparently practices of misconception, but we are talking about two territories that are deeply infiltrated by the clan of the Casalesi and in which the combination between the simple - as it were - electoral corruption and the control of the vote for other purposes (i.e. the Mafia ones) is so labile and subtle that perhaps it would be worth more attention, with a less bureaucratic response, not on its part, I realize, but on the part of those who had been interested for a more careful vigilance. We are also talking about an area (of two municipalities, which are then those that fall back in the industrial area substantially) where already in a very recent past it has been established that to manage the campaign of posters are people who refer directly to the major camorristic clan of the area, precisely the clan of the Casalesi, controlled directly by leading exponents. Therefore, a request from the Government to the territorial bodies and greater specific supervision on these issues would be welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u36	The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u39	ORRU' (PD). Madam President, I rise to draw attention to a situation which concerns my territory, the province of Trapani, but which has repercussions throughout the national territory in terms of the lack of economic impact linked to the tourism of my region and Italy, as well as the mobility of a thousand people between workers and passengers. This is the interruption of the railway line connecting Trapani to Palermo, via Milo. In particular, the section that connects Trapani to Alcamo, following a structural collapse, has been closed to traffic since 25 February. From February to today the route has never been reopened and RFI, that manages on behalf of Ferrovie dello Stato SpA the entire Italian railway network, has decided to definitively suspend the draft from 11 next August. The railway route in question is strategic for my Province, as it connects it to the airport of Birgi and, above all, connects the two airports of western Sicily. It is a crucial way for the development of the territory that needs to be strengthened, not interrupted and disbanded, and that however, since the problems of the line are of structural type, seems to have been forgotten by the Strategic Infrastructure Program issued by the Ministry of Infrastructures and Transports last April. Up to now the route has been assured by a replacement service carried out by coach, but also this seems to be at risk (maybe it will remain active only for a short period). In practice, from mid-August you can go to Trapani from Palermo by train only through via Castelvetrano, taking five hours. I draw the attention of the Government, as it has been addressed for some time already by the trade unions in the sector and the local population involved the request - repeated several times not only to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, but also to the President of the Region and other bodies that might be interested - to foresee the restoration of the trade in question that, as I said at the beginning, strategically connects the two airports. With this intervention, I will announce that I will put a question to the Government in order to know the actual guidelines on the trade in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u40	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-80.ana.u41	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 29 July, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 10:54 a.m.
