ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u1	The sitting was opened (16,01). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,08 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u6	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have asked to be able to speak on the order of business, because the course of this morning's sitting obviously has political and parliamentary significance, but it is also related to the dictates of our regulations. It is on this set of factors that I would like to draw the attention of the presidency of the Senate and the House. In fact, in the final part of this morning's sitting, our House suffered tensions of particular violence that influenced and, at some time, even blocked the work of the House. This was in the final part of the discussion of a measure on sensitive matters: a measure which saw the Senate Chamber engaged for many sessions and also saw phases of real obstructionism, which, in the final part, has degenerated in my opinion. I say immediately, to get the matter out of the field, that I do not approve in any way the invasion of Senator Fasano of the PdL Group towards the benches of the 5 Star Movement and I thank the senators, also of his Group, who stopped him. But the regulatory issue is another. This morning we came to the conclusion of a very elaborate debate; we listened to the explanations of vote of all the Groups and, at the end of them, virtually all the Senators of the 5 Star Movement signed up to speak to express a dissenting statement. I think this questiones us about at least two delicate elements. If an entire Group joins to disagree with the Senator's explanation of vote which just before expressed itself on behalf of the whole Group, it is the majority of the Group that expresses its will. And what dissent are we talking about if the whole Group has a different will from the Senator who has been assigned by the Group to speak? [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]] I have to say there's something... [[Senator Castaldi's comments.]] Excuse me. I watched the whole session this morning, and I didn't say anything. I just sat down and shut up. Please let me talk. It seems to me that we should at least have that respect. I respect you even when you have parliamentary behaviors that I do not share; you can respect me if I express opinions that you do not share. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]] I think there is something that does not respect logic, and logic, even in Parliament, makes sense. A whole group which disagrees with its rapporteur seems to me frankly strange. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] But there is another issue on which I have to say a few more words, an issue on which the House has been discussing for a long time, and which concerns the time that must be allocated to each individual senator who wants to express a dissenting opinion by his Group. There were different opinions: the Senators of the 5 Star Movement who intervened claimed they were entitled to speak for a time and the President of the Senate (who at that time sat on the bench of the presidency of the Senate) had a different opinion. Our Rules of Procedure provide that in these cases the President of the Senate will prevail with his will. Our Rules of Procedure provide for the matter to be closed by the decision of the President of the Senate. There is, of course, a remedy that has been used many times in the past legislation, and that is to put the matter before the junta for the Rules of Procedure, because there is obviously a difference of opinion on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. This difference cannot be dissolved in this House, because this is not the place, and it must be dissolved in the Junta. And I think that it is wrong to turn a very delicate regulatory debate, which involves various parts of our Rules of Procedure, into a degenerate sitting, in which the screams go beyond the arguments, in which the interruptions are more frequent than the word taken because granted by the Presidency, in which the squabbling is much greater than the arguments. I would like to emphasise one point, which is political and parliamentary. If a political group (or just a senator) wants to hinder the adoption of a measure, even of an important measure to which the majority cares a lot, if this group (or this senator) moves within the requirements of the Rules of Procedure, I must say that, even if I do not agree with its behaviour, I will do everything I can to enable this group to carry out its function, even in obstructive forms. But if the protest takes on forms that endanger the parliamentary system, that can be interpreted or are offensive to the parliamentary system and that aim its weakening, and such is the operation of getting up in the Chamber and tearing up the volume that contains the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution [[Applause from the PD, PDL, SCPI and LAG groups),]] Then I tell the presidency of the Senate that the senators of the Democratic Party as long as they breathe in their throats will oppose this behavior. [[Applause from the PD, PDL, SCPI and LAG groups. The PD Group senators stand up.]] The Constitution of the Republic does not tear itself apart in the Chamber! This is our position. [[Applause from the PD, PdL, SCPI and AUT groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] Madam President, while I am asking the Presidency to continue with the respect of all Members of Parliament, starting with oppositions, in their conduct, even obstructive, provided that they are within the Rules of Procedure, at the same time I ask the Presidency to apply the Rules of Procedure strictly to those Members who do not observe it and constantly violate it, because this cannot be tolerated by the House. In addition, to those of our colleagues who rise repeatedly by reminding us of the number of votes received for his election in Parliament, I would like to remind you that we have been elected to face the crisis in our country and to defend the Constitution of the Republic and not to tear it apart in this House. [[Applause from the PD, PDL, SCPI and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u9	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, Senator Zanda, we believe that the Regulations have a function: to be custodians of the values of our Constitution, a Constitution that - I believe I understand - someone (not our Movement) is determined to correct in the coming months. These values are centered on the acceptance of pluralism, precisely because Parliament must be the place where people speak, listen, accept the indications that come from the other side (perhaps listening not to the counter colleague, but all, especially when addressing each other directly), so that - as you mentioned, implicitly quoting Voltaire - the fundamental freedom of every Italian citizen to be able to express his thought in respect that is due to everything that is argumentative, to everything that is rationality, to everything that recalls a thought that comes from a reflection that has behind an experience of life, that comes from a social and civil crisis that we are called here to face and resolve. I am taught, however, that this House is the place where the work of the Commissions flows. Therefore, if we want to have a memory, let us also ask ourselves why we should come to these acts which you consider to be obstructive, perhaps unholy. We are committed to all our resources by trying to study which spaces, which interstices are guaranteed to us by the Rules of Procedure, simply because we believe that the so-called Ilva-save decree must be as opposed to it as possible, considering it, in its complexity and its generality, even worse than the situation that would go to heal. In the Commission - and here the papers sing - our senators proposed a dialogue work, an amending work, a work aimed at improving, not with the presumption of having all the truths in their pockets, but with the humility of being able to propose in the dialogue of ways to heal the situations that, in the opinion of many, and not only of our Movement, are to be healed immediately. There was no desire for dialogue in the Commission, as I pointed out yesterday afternoon to Mr Franceschini. Now, in the face of this attitude of absolute closure, we have felt that we are intervening in our simplicity, in our humility and taking into account what the Regulations support. Because, unlike you mentioned, Senator Zanda, not all the Senators in the Group have asked for the floor, but half less one. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As far as Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure is concerned, I read: The same option is granted to senators who wish to disassociate themselves from the positions taken by their Group, provided that their number is less than half that of members of the Group itself. I would also like to say, Mr Zanda, that, if the Rules of Procedure of the Senate were the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, we would probably have lived, as in the House, nights of speeches, of questions, of speeches, because we thought that, for what is granted to us by the Rules of Procedure... [[Comments from PD and PdL Groups]] Now, we would like this to happen in the wake of a respect that we must all have towards everyone. But very often the majorities, with very, very sweet methods, try to incorporate the oppositions, without giving them the possibilities that even though our constituent Fathers have granted us, because this - I repeat this - is the place of speaking, but also of listening, is the place of mediation, provided it is born from arguments. We make the arguments: it is you who are deaf, especially in the Commission! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u12	Mr Schifani (PdL). Madam President, I would like to remind all of us that we have faced each other so many times in this House; we have sometimes also clashed with each other dialectically and politically, often using (not always) even obstructive measures. It has sometimes happened to me, Madam President, when I had the honour to occupy that bench, to have to guarantee, as I tried to do, to those who played an opposition role in the exercise of their regulatory rights, through an obstructionism that referred to the Rules of Procedure, aimed at slowing down the work of Parliament. It is in the physiology of the logic of our democracy. However, I believe that a concept should not be forgotten, and I would like to turn to my fellow Members of this House. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] In a parliamentary democracy respect is indispensable, and I hope that this will always happen, but then we must also take note of the... [[Comments from Senators Crimes and Santangelo.]] I correct myself: I address my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement. CRIMI (M5S). Otherwise we should also say "berlusconini." Mr Schifani (PdL). I am correct: I am speaking with respect to them, I am reasoning. I said that we must always bear in mind that there are the rules of parliamentary democracy, where we are confronted, we are trying to listen and, when there are moments of decision-making, we are taking the rules of democracy. Parliamentary democracy provides for the vote. It even provides for this in order to determine whether or not there is a need to continue the work of this House (think a little), it does so at times when an unexpected topic is being discussed in this House and there is no sharing of this House. Many times the President-in-Office puts to the vote those choices on which there is no sharing. Democracy is this: it is the vote. I am well aware that the different Rules of Procedure in the House could have allowed the 5 Star Movement to commit this House for whole nights, as you have done with an appreciable and admirable spirit of sacrifice, because Italy has observed that it has committed the House for whole nights: you have achieved an objective - a political objective - by using your prerogatives. However, I would just like to mention two figures. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a delicate measure. You fought against it in the Commission for the transposition of your ideas and you were not heard. We take note of this. It is, however, a measure that could also lead the Government to present a matter of trust and Parliament to suffer it. I would therefore like to draw a very clear and positive conclusion from this matter. Today, this House, apart from the unfortunate affair that I hope will be forgotten, records, as we all record (also you, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement), a success: we prevented the government from being forced to put the question of trust, we all had the opportunity to discuss, to compare ourselves, to explain the amendments, to vote on them, in one way or another. And this is where parliamentary democracy wins. [[Applause from the PdLe Group of Senators Favero and Del Barba]] And I say this with conviction, because how many times have been raised from these benches, protests against the Government by the oppositions and sometimes even, more silently, by the majorities who supported the Governments and who suffered the questions of trust? This has not happened, it has not happened, and it is a demonstration of great, great, great affirmation of the role of our Parliament. With regard to what has happened, I would like to make the comments of President Zanda, whom I fully support. Any obstructionist attitude in accordance with the Rules of Procedure must be accepted, even those attitudes aimed at declaring the vote in dissent, if they maintain themselves in compliance with the Rules of Procedure, as you yourself have recalled (half minus one). So, you were in the middle of being fair, all right. Therefore, I do not feel that I have any objection to the motion for an explanation of vote in person, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Attitudes instead of going beyond, attitudes that move in the wake of contempt, of the offense against Cards that contain values in which we recognize ourselves and of Regulations in which we must recognize ourselves until they are changed, because they are to guarantee everyone, colleagues (today they can be seen to our guarantee, one tomorrow they can be seen to your guarantee, the wheel of democracy turns), then no: these gestures must be condemned, they must be forgotten and they must not be repeated. And with this I conclude my speech: let there be a debate in the Commission, let there be a debate in this House, ready to listen, ready to confront us, but let us ensure that we do not consume other events such as today's and that we arrive at a final vote, such as that we have expressed today, without having to undergo, ladies and gentlemen, a vote of confidence that would not allow any of you, but no one in this House, to be able to say their own about individual requests for amendments and, therefore, to be able to exercise that mandate which the Italians recognized when they voted for us. [[Applause from the PdL, PD and SCpI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u15	Sunta (SPI). Madam President, in recent days, Senator Nencini reminded us that obstructionism is a serious, very serious practice, and like all serious things we, all together, in the interests of everyone, in the interests of democracy, in the interests of this House, cannot afford that what is being done in the parliamentary classrooms is just a theatrical representation of something superficial, because Parliament is really the place where people's will is to be summed up and its action cannot become a farce. And it is our responsibility that this should not happen. And if you will allow me, also the reference to the Fathers of the Homeland, to the constituent Fathers, must be made with great prudence, with great sparingy, not only in this Chamber and not only by the 5 Star Movement, but also outside here, these days, after the vote of the Senate and waiting for the discussion on the reform of the Constitution that is taking place in the House in the Commission. We also see illustrious signatures calling into question the Constitution, or rather, accusing us of questioning the Constitution, of betraying its spirit, of betraying its letter, of wanting to rape it; they call us to a profound difference between us who would represent the farce and the constituent Fathers who represent (as they really represent) history, our source of inspiration. I believe that these inappropriate comparisons, these exaggerations, are not useful to what we want to represent in this House and to what we want to do in trying to adapt our institutions to the need for change in the country. We need to change the primary sources of our right, the forms of our government to make it more suitable to the citizens, without distorting our democracy, but recreating a relationship of trust. We need this Parliament to be effective. Sometimes, to someone like me who has never set foot in here until March 15 of this year, it seems that it is a very efficient machine, but not at all effective, which forces, for example, the Government to put in place omnibus measures with 120 articles that talk about everything and the opposite of everything, because the fear is to fail to achieve the objective that a majority formed in Parliament, the sovereign body of popular representation, indicates to the country as a solution. I therefore agree with the fact that we sometimes have to deal with inconsistent measures between them. But this is the son of Baroque parliamentary regulations, of a way of conceiving democracy and also the role of the parliamentarians who no longer have anything to do with the air outside the palace, which has nothing to do with what is happening in the rest of Europe, in the other Assemblies, where we work for sessions, where general discussions at most are times when one speaker intervenes for two, three, four, five minutes. For seven years I have spoken to the European Parliament on important issues, but for no more than two or three minutes. And that is why I have never felt raped in my democratic and popular representativeness. Of course, seeing the books in which the sources of our right are contained waving and the rules of our behavior laid down as if they were books to be flaunted at the stadium in favour of a team or high is a mortifying and unacceptable thing for all of us who have arrived in this House following a path of strong political commitment. But if we want to represent the need for newness that exists in the country - I address myself directly to the 5 Star Movement - we cannot but free ourselves of the liturgies and baroque rites and we cannot use them to be able to affirm newness, because the two are no longer together in the 21st century. [[Applause from the SCPI, SVP, UV, PATT, UPT, PSI-MAIE, PDL, LAG and PD Groups.]] We need to change who we are. We must fully respect the regulations that we have, but at the same time we must take on a profound change, because the exaltation of our role is not in preventing a majority from ruling, but in claiming the space to be able to affirm, inside the palace and outside the palace, our will. And I don't think this was at all denied to the Five Star Movement. I believe that this will also apply in the next few appointments, but I also believe that we really need to take it as a commitment. It is not the compression of the word to the individual or the reduction from ten to three minutes to speak, nor a general debate in this House reduced from seven to three hours to mortify democracy: democracy dies when the Palace fails to respond to people's problems. Democracy dies there. [[Applause from the SCPI, PdL and PD groups. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] So, I ask that there be a rewriting of the rules together, what has not yet happened, even if there are rules in the Senate that allow times much faster than the House, but always inside a Baroque logic. I urge you not to use this instrument, I urge you to bring the battle of substance into the Commissions, even within the House. [[Applause from the SCP, PD and PDL Groups),]] After that, I invite you to find the convergences, which can be found on the substance of some measures - and this has already happened - because that is the logic with which we must move. It is a commitment that I personally and as a Group feel I can take, but at the same time with a warm invitation not to mortify the rules that we democratically gave ourselves, because those who constantly claim the reference to the Constitution must also understand what comes from that primary source, but in a way that is not instrumental, but in a way that is only functional to the effectiveness of a job that is for democracy, for the country and especially for those who, at this moment, are suffering more than all the crisis that we are experiencing. [[Applause from the SCPI, M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u16	The Presidents of the Groups have thus used their power to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u17	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 941, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u18	Madam President, the 5 Star Movement raises the question of a preliminary ruling and proposes that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, it should not proceed to the examination of Act No 941, as the legislative content of the measure under consideration appears to be in open conflict with the constitutional dictation referred to in Articles 2, 3, 9, 24, 32 and 41, allowing the continued exercise of private economic initiative in such a way as to damage safety and human dignity, annihilating the protection of the fundamental right to health and the healthy environment. In addition, the legislation in question runs counter to Articles 3 and 35 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which protect the right of everyone to physical and mental integrity and health. There is also conflict with the provisions of Article 191 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, where the precautionary principle is laid down, which in this case is disregarded through the legitimisation of proven harmful activities. Gentlemen, you will all be aware that the decision of the Constitutional Court No 85 of 2013 has ensured that an industrial plant such as Ilva can be commissary in accordance with Decree-Law No 207 of 2012, but always in compliance with Article 41 of the Constitution; indeed, the Constitutional Court considers that it is possible to do this precisely pursuant to Article 41. In other words: the private economic initiative is free. However, it cannot be carried out in conflict with social usefulness or in such a way as to harm security, freedom and human dignity. According to Article 41 of the Constitution, the law determines the appropriate programmes and controls so that public and private economic activity can be addressed and coordinated for social purposes. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has expressed itself in the sense of the balance between economic activity and social utility, but this balance is immediately diminished with the decree, already in article 1, paragraph 1, when we talk about "reiterata", because the requirement that the existence of certain attentions by the company is indispensable and objective comes to fall. So we are talking about a company that is doing, in a repeated way, damage to the environment, that is, a clearly outlawed undertaking. This decree-law places it in a so-called grey area, secures it from the laws, from the legislative devices that protect and condemn, that regulate private economic activity. The principle of company continuity is, therefore, to prevail over the protection of the environment and health, making void the fair contemperation of interests, even if in the decrees-laws prepared for the Ilva they are continuously and abstractly stated. As a result, production is privileged, even if it is conditional on compliance with and implementation of the requirements of the AIA, but in contrast (therefore, in the alternative) health is placed which is also a subject protected by the Constitution (we remember this, don't we?). In addition, Article 1 (1) (b) provides for a wide-ranging exemption of liability in favour of the Extraordinary Commissioner. In addition to overlapping with other articles that are constantly tending to be despondent, it is also contrary to Article 6 of Legislative Decree No 231 of 2001, to which it is appealing, and we must bear in mind that this is a decree transposing European legislation, therefore, we fail to comply with European dictates. That article provides, yes, that if an offence has been committed by persons who have apical functions or functions of representation or administration, the institution does not respond if the governing body has demonstrated that it has taken all the necessary measures: the article nevertheless gives the judge the power to decide, i.e. the institution must demonstrate before the court that this has been done. We, on the other hand, by means of this decree-law, decide it by law: that is, it is sufficient that the plans have been put in place to ensure that first of all it is no longer necessary to provide for the AIA. Therefore, the obligation to implement it lapses, and we are therefore in a very serious legislative situation. Moreover, there is a derogation from article 29- decies, paragraph 9, of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006 that we consider very serious, because it creates a situation of imbalance with respect to the other enterprises that, instead, must respond to the requirements of the same legislative decree according to which if the AIA has not been complied with, the factory, depending on the gravity of the situation, can also be closed. For non-committalized factories, this is no longer the case for those commissariats; it is enough to put in place a procedure. I think it's very serious. There is an open violation of the principle of equality. But it's not enough. There's schizophrenia. In Article 2 we go by way of derogation from paragraph 1-a of Article 1, because Ilva does not apply to Article 1, that is to say to the model we are creating, that is to say to a very dangerous model of commissary, as we are saying. But for Ilva, the decree is even more liberal, there is even more freedom, a true freedom, because the same tools are not provided to acquire, for example, the real estate assets of the company for the implementation of the AIA. We then find that this decree-law with article 2-c goes to delete paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of article 3 of decree-law 3 December 1012, n. 207, which provided for the figure of the guarantor. This guarantor who had functions of monitoring the implementation of the prescriptions of the AIA and who had to report any criticalities and appropriate measures, a figure of undisputed independence, competence and experience is deleted; however, the requirements of professionalism and the criteria of lawfulness and incompatibility of the commissioner and the subcommissor are also eliminated and then, with an agenda, finally presented by the rapporteurs, even of all the delegates that the Commissioner will want to appoint. Therefore, for any future company it could happen what happened for Ilva, that is that the managing director, resigned on 25 May, becomes commissioner on 5 June. That of the Commissioner of Ilva is a formal incompatibility, but also substantial: it is formal on paper, as he was administrator and today he is commissioner, but it is also substantial as this gentleman... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nugnes, please finish your speech. NUGNES (M5S). Let me finish, please. I was saying that this gentleman was sent a ministerial warning for failure to implement the AIA requirements and health damage assessment (VDS). Then, as commissioner, what did you do? He disavowed them, so he let them down. Therefore, we are faced with a management incompatibility. So what happens to this VDS? Which has been drafted by a regional agency responsible and must respond to an interministerial decree that depots it... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude the sentence. NUGNES (M5S). This is very serious and is not allowed... PRESIDENT. Please conclude the sentence. I've already called you twice, please. NUGNES (M5S). We cannot, by means of a ministerial act, restrict regional autonomy in the field of health and the environment. I think this is a very serious matter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u19	He asked Senator Centinario to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2 and the question of suspension QS1, seeking the opinion of CNEL, pursuant to Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u20	Madam President, first of all, I should like to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2. Decree-Law No 61 regulates, in general and with specific regard to the Ilva plant in Taranto, the extraordinary commissioning of industrial plants of strategic national interest, whose production activity involves serious and significant dangers to the environment and health, due to the non-compliance with the provisions of the integrated environmental authorisation. The decree-law is the third emergency measure adopted over the last eleven months to deal with the environmental and occupational emergency of the Ilva plant (maybe three are a little too many). It follows Decree-Law No 129 and Decree No 207 of 2012. Therefore, there is a manifest violation of the requirements necessary for the use of emergency legislation by the Government. The extraordinary nature of the events, which only justifies the use of the decree-law, fails if one considers the fact that the Government in the short term has had to intervene several times in the context of the same problem. Moreover, it is reasonable to assume that the provisions of this Decree-Law are also not capable of definitively resolving the question in question. It is as if the Government, in violation of the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution, adopted by decree-law some measures conscious of their ineffectiveness, first examined its effects and repercussions, found its inefficiencies at the level of applicability, resistance by political forces and then intervene again, working precisely on the most controversial or problematic provisions. It is therefore a system that allows the Government to continuously correct the course of its legislative intervention, up to satisfactory solutions of balance or effectiveness. It is an entirely opposite model to that implemented by the ordinary legislator, which predetermines the aim to be pursued by means of legislative activity and which evaluates, in advance and not later (perhaps using the effective collaboration of technicians), the compatibility between the objectives proposed and the practical effects that will result from the entry into force of the relevant provisions. It is therefore noted that this decree-law is manifestly unconstitutional, because it violates the principle of freedom of private economic initiative, recognised by Article 41 of the Constitution. The provision of an extraordinary procedure of commissioning, in fact, in the absence of the ordinary conditions that justify it and, above all, regardless of the initiative of the owners, constitutes a violation of the right to property and a surreptitious form of expropriation. So we're reliving the statalization season. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In conclusion, the provision in Article 2-b, inserted with an amending proposal in the examination of this draft law for the conversion of the decree-law, which provides for a special derogation for the Region of Puglia to the Internal Stability Pact - and this is an absurd thing compared to what we have said so far, being a derogation provided only for this Region - violates the principle of equality enshrined in Article 3 of the Constitution, in terms of reasonableness as the application of these rules, although justified by practical reasons aimed at overcoming the problem under consideration, creates, in fact, a clear inequality among citizens resident in other regions, who are denied the possibility of using their own resources for the purposes of relaunching their own economy, the protection of the environment and health, the fight against unemployment and the launch of measures to ensure an adequate, efficient and effective preparation of initiatives aimed at improving the services to the person. We ask not to proceed with the examination of the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 61 on environmental protection, health and work for enterprises of strategic national interest. We are making this request because the case will create bad precedents, Madam President. In fact, priority is given to a situation that, although very serious, is not very different from what happens in other areas of Italy: 39 sites of national interest and 18 of regional interest; I bring examples that involve many senators: Venice-Marghera; Casale Monferrato; Broni; the lakes of Mantova, Milazzo, and there are really many that can interest senators from the North or from the deep South. [[Applause from the LNP-Aut Group]] Many of these, especially in the North, have ended up in the total disinterest of the Government and the media, sites for which it is not proposed to unblock the regional or local stability pact and which perhaps produce the same damage to the environment and health of the citizens living nearby. In this case too, ladies and gentlemen, we want to create first-class and second-class citizens, and we do not agree. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Moreover, the basic idea is that we return to that process of statisation - of which we are afraid - and to the management of entrepreneurship by the State, which has created economic disasters both during the state management and during the privatisation period, and here I remember a name and surname, indeed, an acronym: IRI. I remember the management of the IRI and a gentleman named Romano Prodi, who made a national disaster of the IRI. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That gentleman, who is called Romano Prodi, by the mayor of Florence was also proposed as a candidate for President of the Republic! Let us therefore be careful, ladies and gentlemen, not to create situations that have already been seen and which do not do the good of Italy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u21	In accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, I would remind you that a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and will be held in which one representative per Group will be able to speak for no more than ten minutes. Since no one intends to intervene, I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Nugnes and other Senators (QP1), Senator Bitonci and other Senators (QP2). It's not approved. I put to the vote the question of suspensive QS1, raised by Senator Bitonci and other senators. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u22	Thank you, Madam President, thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen. Citizens [[Brusio. Recalls of the President]] The closure of the blast furnace and coking plant in the steel industry is an urgent matter. In terms of environmental damage, pollution and public health, we are already lagging behind: these are not unconscious words spoken by the environmentalists of Taranto, or even less by the 5 Star Movement. To pronounce these words he was, in the role of general director of the Ministry, the former minister of the environment Corrado Clini twelve years ago, regarding the plants of the Ilva of Cornigliano in Genoa. On this road the policy has moved, towards plants that produced steel, towards plants that for size and production capacity were decidedly much smaller than the steel mill in Taranto. In Taranto, however, how has politics responded all these years? Senator colleagues, be intellectually honest towards the city of Taranto, this state has behaved and continues to behave shamefully, not considering the health and future of an entire citizenship, so much so that it is replaced several times in the role of body that protects the rights of citizens and workers by the judiciary. The Taranto people have heard public statements about the imminent environmentalization of Ilva; statements that deny the pollution of the city and, if any, it is not attributable to industries. Taranto citizens saw video-letters posted on the Internet stating that pollution was under control and that the challenge for eco-compatibility was won. All this with local and national policy supported by pseudotechnical reports, held on the company's payroll. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Wait a minute, Senator, then I'll give you back some minutes. I would ask, please, for a little more silence in this House. Thank you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We have also heard about Taranto's industrial vocation, without even knowing how much, with that vocation induced by an unconscious state and subsequently forced by unscrupulous individuals, they raped and killed the real vocations of a territory with a multi-millennial history, kissed by the golden sun and bathed by a crystal clear sea. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the supercommissary who came to the Commission with the intention of making us believe that Taranto is a kind of Silicon Valley and we do not want to believe that! We want to say that Taranto must be considered the main failure of Italian politics, because we are faced with a reality in which everyone has lost: he has lost the fugitive or arrested property, whose assets have been partly kidnapped, goods that are not wanted to return to the community; they have lost the workers and the citizens, miserably placed in opposition between them for a dramatic war among the likes; he then lost politics, because he did not know at all how to govern this situation; everyone has lost, we have all lost! That is why we have the opportunity to exploit our commitment as politicians and citizens only if we can live together at the same time productive realities and local communities. This is the only challenge ahead, a challenge that currently sees us defeated; but this challenge is not a political exercise, it is not pure social theory, but it is the sad reality. You proposed in the Commission, with an amendment, to start monitoring pollutants in the Taranto area. But how to start? The data are there: ask doctors for the environment, for example; ask who knows the reality, who lives it. Like Alessia, Federica, Pietro, Roberto and many other children of Taranto, who have written words that we have the duty to listen, that you, ladies senators, have the duty to listen and not to linger with your chats, as you do at this moment, please! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u23	Please go ahead, Senator, I'm listening to you, and so is the government representative.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u24	LUCIDES (M5S). Alessia: "Dear master of Ilva, I would like the factories not to pollute much, because this causes so much disease and suffering. Even children who are allergic, breathing all that factory smoke, are sick. Dear Master, think of the city of Taranto and the future of all of us. Today we build a better world full of green and without pollution. Federica writes: "We would like to shout together with the whole world that the poison of the city kills us and that we want a city where we breathe life, not death. Thank you, Federica. I am nine years old," says Roberto, "I live in the Tamburi district of Taranto. President, I invite you to my city because I want you to help us fight pollution and also build where we can play. Peter says: "Is this what we want? The smoke that pollutes the environment and the garbage that every day gets dirty more and more Taranto? Or is this what we want: a clean and unpolluted city? In this way we can help Taranto's economy. Then the children of the 5th D Institute of Rodari said: We write to you because we hope that you are one of those few adults who listen to children. We are very concerned about our health because we read in the newspapers that there are eight-year-old tarantans who have sick lungs like seventy-year-olds who have smoked three packs of cigarettes a day since they were kids. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Among us are companions who suffer from allergy, asthma and other respiratory problems. Our sea is considered one of the most beautiful in Italy, but not everyone knows that to make the baths in summer we are forced to travel many kilometers in traffic to reach a beach, where the water is dirty because of the numerous villas built a few meters from the sea that dump waste. The sky of Taranto at night is not shining, because the fumes of our factories cover it with so much grey smoke that hides the stars. Our grandparents tell us about when they went to the sea on foot and bathed in the Small Sea and the starry skies of their childhood. We have difficulty even imagining them. We know that one of the main drivers of Taranto's pollution is Ilva. We do not want the factory to close because many of our dads work there to support their families. But we ask you: what do we have to choose between health and work? Aren't they both rights guaranteed by our Constitution? Why can't factories use purification plants to offer work and health? We would like to eat our raw mussels, but without taking the risk of getting sick, as our grandparents did. We are sure that you will answer us and therefore we also ask you to equip our school with internal containers to allow the separate collection of waste and external dumpsters in order to empty them. You will see how much paper an entire school will consume in a school year. Well, from these words we can say that there really seems to be someone who has much clearer ideas than we do. I shall then end my speech with great pride as spokesperson - perhaps for the first time since this adventure began - to find today the courage to use the right words at the right time. We of the 5 Star Movement will ask the Government for a commitment to strive to limit in a more effective way and describe in appropriate words the state of natural calamity of anthropic origin, precisely to emphasize all those environmental disasters that are determined by the action of man and attributable to him, therefore natural calamities derived from human activities. It is important for this type of environmental condition to be highly specified, precisely in order to give social evidence of all those phenomena strongly disturbing, attributable only to human action or to a joint action of a natural phenomenon and a human action. We will also call on the Government and all of you, colleagues, to have the courage to take a step forward in environmental and health protection. The penal code provides in Article 422 the crime of massacre, punishing anyone, outside the cases provided for in Article 285, in order to kill, performs acts such as would endanger public safety, if the fact results in the death of more people. We will therefore commit the Government to facilitate the examination of initiatives involving the introduction into the penal code of a title expressly concerning environmental crimes, with particular reference to the forecast of specific cases of environmental damage, environmental pollution and environmental disaster, as well as the strengthening of the case of environmental massacres, with reference to the arsonous conducts of anthropic origin highlighted previously. We have the courage to call things by their name! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, before entering into the substance of the debate on draft law No 941, converting Decree-Law No 61 of 2013, I would like to make two brief reflections. One concerns the intervention of the Democratic Party leader, Senator Zanda, whom I appreciated. His words, in fact, brought me back to a few years ago, when we tried in every way to make it clear that political dialectic was important, just as it was to respect the diversity of ideas within Parliament. Then, instead, someone thought differently and tried to delegitimize those who thought differently and even tried to ridicule. But today, listening to the words of Senator Zanda, the leader of the Democratic Party, whom I esteem and appreciate, I must say that that unhappy phase has set and that politics returns to be politics with capital p. Another reflection aloud I want to make it to the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement: decent people, who work seriously and concretely. Some, however - but I say someone: just one or two - failed to take the step to become a public citizen and remained a private citizen. That's bitter for me. Having said that, I am about to enter into the discussion in draft law No 941. I have allowed myself, Madam President, to write notes in order to try to stay in time, but if I fail to do so, I would ask the Presidency not to authorise the continuation of my speech, but to allow me to deposit the written statement.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u27	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u28	SCILIPOTI (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes emergencies turn some fundamental rights into luxury, at least for a period of time on which we MEPs must ensure that that right can be restored as soon as possible. We cannot stay long in the trenches, like the leaves on the trees in autumn, would have said the poet Giuseppe Ungaretti in 1918, writing the poem "Soldati". [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] In the draft law we are discussing today, we should take explicit account of Articles 4, 9 and 41 of our Constitution and - precisely - of some aporias emerging from the confrontation between them and them with the development of scientific and technological knowledge. The dialectic between the right to work (Article 4 of our Constitution) and the freedom of private economic initiative, provided that it does not harm security, freedom and human dignity, is one of the invariant structures, a constant that characterizes free and modern societies. However, slowly but in a continuous and parallel way, in open societies a powerful and now dominant productive force has developed, emerged and spread out: science and its technological variations have invaded and pervaded the social panorama. Scientific knowledge has become another invariant structure with which liberal societies will have to articulate if they want to guarantee the values of dignity, well-being, freedom, equality and solidarity. In this scenario, where scientific research and technology is a huge productive force that tends to dominate all the others (work, capital, raw materials and energy resources), Article 9 of our Constitution reads: The Republic promotes the development of culture and scientific and technical research. It protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. But the Constitution imposes on us a conceptual and political challenge: protecting the landscape and heritage of the nation could force us to curb technological development; protecting jobs and freedom of enterprise clash with health protection and national strategic interest. Mr. Representative of the Government, these three articles of the Constitution, to which the Government consistently appeals in the first line of the bill, become internal and inter-controversial. The environmental, health and occupational emergency in Taranto and Statte is ancient. The contrast between the protection of jobs and the health of workers, the population and future generations was already known before the Riva family took over the company. This, ladies and gentlemen, does not mean justifying the behaviour of the owners, who are to be punished and punished. My questions are as follows: where have the magistrates been in these last forty years? [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Council.]] Where is the obligation to prosecute? Where is the responsibility of the arrogant magistrate? Equally ancient is the conflict between environmental protection and development model: it was known since the 1970s that of Montedison in Pertusola di Crotone; the same was true of the Piombino steel works, as of the industrial sites of Augusta, Mestre and, even more dramatically and emblematically, in Seveso. This is just to mention some of the best known ones; notes precisely because they were and are emergencies. In general, during the first Republic, when a production company became of strategic national interest, the legislators of that time put in the background the contrasts between the right to work, the protection of health and the environmental territory, depending on the material interests involved and improper connections, or decided with politically incorrect procedures, leaving us in legacy terrible emergencies. Today, in this second decade of the third millennium, we can no longer afford the luxury of the horse's moves in the game of chess, discarding the problems and moving sideways to move forward. To be in the metaphor, perhaps we would need the persevering moves of pedestrians who bravely face heavy and transversal pieces such as towers and kings, oblique and subtle like the bishops and horses themselves. In a scenario of high and growing sensitivity and civil responsibility (sometimes anticipating that policy), we have a duty to rethink the relationship between science, technology and society. Our profession as parliamentarians should be distinguished precisely for such mental habitus, anticipating emergencies, both human and natural. How many other Ilvas are there in Italy, Mr. Representative of the Government? It is last week yet another chronicle of protest of the people of Piombino: health, work and steel, just like in Taranto. An ancient Calabrian, which I would like to mention since I was elected in Calabria, the Pythagorean Assiopist of Locri, attributes to an equally ancient Mediterranean, which I quote because they are of Sicilian origin, Epicarmo of Iblea (Iblea is located in a beautiful but tartassata area, close to Augusta), philosopher and Pythagorean also, lived between 530 and 440 B.C., the following maximum: not to repent, but to predict makes a wise man. Mr. Representative of the Government, with great difficulty I will vote in favour of this bill, and I will tell you why: I want this Government to become wise and that, as one of our compatriots, St. Francis of Assisi, said: Begin by doing what is necessary, then what is possible. And all of a sudden you'll be surprised to do the impossible. To invent and monitor the other Italian Ilvas to avoid commissioners; to set up a Commission of inquiry to map every production site of strategic national interest where science and conscience risk to make conflicting and conflicting articles 4, 9 and 41 of our Constitution: this is a task of every parliamentarians and the Government. In the current situation of perilous international competition and dominion of the mechanistic and Cartesian society, in order to revive an economic sector it would be appropriate to promote also the ecological and holistic model, characterizing sustainable development, where work, health and companies are synergistic and multiplicative. To anticipate not to repent: this is my wish to do the impossible. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups and Senator Pepe]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u29	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u30	Madam President, listening to what my previous speakers have said, we must think that we are on the right track. On the one hand, in fact, through the expressions that used the 5 Star Movement we think to load immediately all the burdens, even those not yet demonstrated, in the direction of an enterprise that clearly otherwise risks to die and would remain only the State and the Italian community to pay the damages produced so far. On the other hand, listening to the words of the League, I must say that it is true that in medium stat virtus. In fact, I want to remind my colleagues in the League, precisely by reading it, what Article 41 of the Constitution requires: The private economic initiative is free. It cannot be carried out in conflict with social usefulness or in such a way as to harm security, freedom and human dignity. This extraordinary article of our constituent Fathers also states that: "The law" - (at this moment we are the law, because we are the legislators - "determines the appropriate programs and controls so that public and private economic activity can be directed and coordinated for social purposes." I believe that is exactly what we are honestly trying to do with the conversion into law of the decree-law under examination. The title of the decree-law concerns strategic plants, but it is clear that the casus belli of which we are mainly concerned is Ilva, an Italian case emblematic of the consequences deriving from a lack of politics and enterprise, that today, with this plan, it is intended to remove jointly, eliminating gaps, omissions, serious negligences and providing without further delay to the inevitable environmental recovery, to convince Taranto, Italy, the international markets that the steel industry can coexist with the surrounding territory. The best technologies applied to business structures and the constant monitoring of the environment will be able to bring steel production together without creating any health and environmental repercussions, as in many European realities (the Duisburg case for all), becoming a factor of good employment, respect for the workers, citizens and businesses of that territory, today truly tormented by diseases, mourning, pollution and fears. However, it is not up to us to issue judgments; it is up to us, as we are already doing, to restore the best conditions to help the growth and competitiveness of this and other productive sectors. Steel, such as chemistry, glass and cement, are essential elements for the Italian industrial chain and, if we are able to restructure as in this case, they will also make the Italian economy greener. The objective of the green economy is achieved through an adequate review of industrial processes, making them respectful of workers and the surrounding reality; in the case of steel also through a recycling that is worth 100% of the raw material, in view of the fact that this is the most widespread material at the base of the value chain of a product. So the way to production, however, according to the Best Avalable Technology (BAT), that is to say to the best innovative technologies and to the best industrial practices, is compatible with the guarantees indispensable for the health and the quality of a territory both urban and agricultural. We could sum up by saying that there is no real possibility to proceed with the safety of the plants and the reclamation of the internal and external territory of the perimeter of the Ilva without the Ilva maintaining its market share, orientally around 8 million tons, as indicated by the integrated environmental authorization (IAA), and provide for every burden as an active and diligent part through the commissioner structure, precisely provided for in Article 41 of which I have read. Commissioner Bondi and Mr Ronchi, assisted by a ternary of responsible technical experts, are the ones who will have to communicate to this Parliament every six months how the situation of modernization and improvement of the existing situation is moving. So any hypothesis other than this would give the country not only a collapse of employment, which we would probably not be able to handle at this juncture of serious economic and social difficulty, but would leave to public debt frightening environmental and health burdens, which we would probably not be able to heal from here in the near future. And so the bet, what we do together today, is to turn a company with a high health and environmental risk into a virtuous, employment promoter, reconciling health and environment. In article 2-c, paragraph 3, it is stated that the Commissioners, in agreement with the Region and with the local authorities concerned, promote information and consultation initiatives aimed at ensuring maximum transparency for citizens, in accordance with the principles of the Convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making processes and access to justice in environmental matters. This factor of respect and attention towards citizens, which becomes a cultural factor and an active sharing in the process of improvement of the company and the environment in progress, is complemented by compliance with the Community provisions, in accordance with what was prepared and requested by the European Commission itself in 2012, in the resolution of the infringement procedures already initiated at the European Court of Justice, by preparing the business plan that we are precisely authorising, which addresses and gives full answers to the AIA provisions that are not complied with by the companies and whose contested violation has led to the commissioning. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Puppato. PUPPATE (PD). In this sense, the role of ISPRA and ARPA, today invested in the role of public officials as guarantors of the processes of modification and resolution of the existing problems, in the time and in the data objectives. This is a historical passage, which induces all of us to reflect on what has been made possible because of the ignorance of politics and economic speculation. But - let it be clear - this will not be an authorization to remove responsibilities that remain in tune with the defendants, public and private, involved in the Ilva affair. The polluter pays and, with this bill, all the economic treatment and operating costs of the commissioner's structure are entirely borne by the company. A correct, extensive and constant epidemiological investigation, which we count is activated according to the SENTIERI method, will then be confirmed a posteriori that this path of renewed seriousness and company correctness, but also political-administrative, will have produced all the positive hypotheses and benefits expected by the resident population. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Can you finish the sentence, please? PUPPATE (PD). I conclude by saying that as a ruling class we owe all, today for yesterday, to this people of Taranto also our apologies. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u31	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u32	(IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I sit among these schools, I have always worked, often in poor conditions, as a mere administrative employee. I often found myself commenting on the phrase: There is never an end to the worst. But I would never have dreamed of working here as a citizen spokesperson for the Senate and never dreamed that I would say this sentence, right here, myself in this House. And unfortunately, I am not just referring to this decree. Well, yes, since our work began, we have often found ourselves opposed to so-called practices, which have nothing to do with the ways in which a Parliament should legislate and produce acts for the good of the country. Often, I would say always, we have found ourselves working and discussing measures of the government that have only the intention of throwing smoke in the eyes, but that in reality do not aim at the solution of problems. This is what happened to the discussion of this Decree-Law No 61. There is talk of commissioning: in practice any company of national interest (and there are many such as Ilva), which has failed to comply with the requirements of the AIA, which has polluted and is polluting, endangering the health of workers and citizens, and which risks being closed, as stated in Legislative Decree No. 152 of 2006 (Article 29- decies), can be declared a commissioner. Therefore, in spite of all the regulations in force, it has the possibility, according to this measure, to continue to work, always violating the prescriptions of the AIA, for another 36 months. This gives a way out to all those companies that, while violating the law, see in the police station the way out. In practice, this decree is not a saving Ilva but is the extension of the Ilva method to all industrial realities, and not for the protection of the environment, but to ensure the productive continuity of the same. Perhaps you do not realize it but with this decree we are giving the start to the possibility that what happened to Taranto is repeated again, where mayor, president of the Province, Region, State have regularly made the wrong choices, with revolutions of words, regional legends and program agreements that are the demonstration of the offense to the intelligence of an entire people. All this with the favor of ignorant local and national politicians, supported by reports of pseudotechnicians kept on the payroll of the company that spoke of the industrial vocation of Taranto without even knowing, as my colleague Lucidi recalled, that they were raping and killing the real vocations of a beautiful territory like that of Taranto. We know, however, how things went: kidnapping of hot-area plants and expert reports that said that this plant produced and produces events of disease and death. None of these gentlemen have yet apologized to the fathers, mothers and children of Taranto! None of these gentlemen have the courage today to show themselves publicly in Taranto, as well as in the best habits of the worst cowards! Politics could and had to do something, change the march and plan new strategies on Taranto. What about it? Starting from Corrado Clini - that the Lord can forgive him, since the Tarantos will never do so - and then again, all 'entourage of the single party and technicians have perpetrated the violence on Taranto in cask of decrees. First, that of December 2012 which in fact saved Ilva and condemned Taranto, establishing that in Italy the productive continuity is more important than the health of citizens and workers, establishing that an integrated environmental authorization would have been sufficient to protect the lives of citizens and workers, without any scientific evidence that could prove that the problem of illness and death events was exhausted, establishing that lawlessness in this country is not only a bad example but a consolidated practice, which allows the companies of friends, at the time when they were accused of not respecting the laws and the lives of people, to be advantaged over those who, day after day, try to carry out their business with honesty! Later, however, politics succeeds in overcoming itself in shame with another decree - this decree - which states that the existing law on the environment, which would lead to a temporary or total suspension of the activity, is exempted and that the famous AIA - that the Constitutional Court has accepted on confidence as a balance between the right to work and the right to health, only if it was strictly respected - could be modified and certainly not in a more restrictive way. A decree in which the state appoints as commissioner the managing director of the private company that is now commissioner and to which commissioner are raised in advance all eventual responsibilities! I remember that the health damage assessment drawn up by ARPA Puglia states that if all the prescriptions of the AIA were complied with, the risk of contracting pathologies would not be canceled but would only be halved. A real tragedy for the health of the citizens, for the workers and for their children! But not only that. The government has little memory and forgets, despite the citizenship it constantly reminds him, that the unfulfilled prescriptions of the AIA, already certified by ISPRA in the two inspections carried out so far, should have been sanctioned and that these sanctions, despite being tens and dozens, and repeated in some cases, are not yet and still imposed by the State. Never let the private be offended. Yet the 5 Star Movement has tried, through the amendments, to improve the text of this decree, to propose alternatives, fruit of the work carried out together with the citizens of Taranto and not only, with the associations, the committees. We have tabled an amendment, for example, for the preparation of an industrial plan which would also include the use of more modern steel-making plants. We have put forward proposals for a different programming in the industrial plan of the hot zone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. MORONESE (M5S). One minute and I'll finish. We have called for industrial and economic conversion of the territory. We have proposed an exemption from the health ticket for all the inhabitants of the municipalities within a radius of 20 kilometers as the crow flies from the production plant. All these amendments have not even been discussed in the Commission, because the Government, for the umpteenth time, replacing the role of Parliament, has asked us not to present any of them for reasons of urgency. As usual, we have to act in a hurry. So, everything was a set-up: auditions on auditions, inspections. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. You can hand over the text of the speech so that it can be annexed to today's summary report. MORONESE (M5S). I would therefore ask you to allow me to do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it. MORONESE (M5S). Faced with all this, thinking of you, comes to fully share the words of the inhabitants of the Tamburi district of Taranto who printed them on a plaque hung in a street near the factory: In the days of north-north-west wind, we are buried by mineral dust and suffocated by gas fumes from the Ilva industrial zone. For all this the same curse those who can and do nothing to repair it. Taranto clear! And I add that if we do not change this decree - reads then it is true what I said at the beginning: at the worst there is never an end, and the fault is yours. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u34	Madam President, Mr Cyril, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind everyone that Taranto was the capital of Magna Grecia and already in the 4th century BC was considered the largest and richest of the cities on the sea, the first mandatory stop for those who went from the Aegean sea to Rome thanks to its very happy geographical position. A reality like Taranto, complex, but also with the many potentials, can be refounded only starting from a policy that makes participation the rule to follow, rigorously, in the daily activity of Government. The crisis of Taranto lives inside the Italian crisis that, in turn, is part of a global crisis, but Taranto cannot live, today, without steel, when every other economic alternative (the shipbuilding, the economic development of the port, agriculture, the breeding, the fishing, the tourism) marks the step or in any case does not take off also because of the polluting processes that have hit the city and its territory. If work without health is not a right, it is equally true that without work and means of subsistence there is no dignity or health. Today it is unthinkable to reconstruct the future, to experience a new model of production by remaining within the same model of development, incompatible with nature and therefore with life. The age of steel - precious metal moving cars, tanks and refrigerators, intelligence and work of millions around the world - is not, however, over. The metals, more or less precious, not only serve to build goods of the past, energizing and polluting but also the objects symbolizing a new model of development, such as solar panels, wind turbines, which have a lot to do with the industrial transformation of metals and the sustainability of energy development. The conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 61 of 4 June 2013 is the fourth measure, adopted in the last year to deal with the environmental and occupational emergency of the Ilva plant in Taranto as evidence of the enormous efforts made to safeguard employment, but also of the environment and health of workers as well as of all citizens of Taranto. And this measure, with the end of the guarantor, must today be defended more forcefully than the previous ones, because it is strong of the past experience of the previous decrees and of the judgments of the judicial authority and of the Constitutional Court itself with the judgment n. 85 of 2013. Today, the third decree-law, No 61, seeks to achieve a fair contemporaneity between the constitutional principles relating to the protection of work, the health of the environment, public health, the freedom of economic initiative and the protection of property. And for the first time the connection between the use of the seized sums and the environmental recovery plan and the industrial plan is affirmed, accepting the principle for the first time in Italy of the polluter pays, several times referred to by the directive on environmental responsibility. And with the overcoming of the figure of the guarantor there will also be the proper revaluation of the public environmental agencies, at regional or national level, which are more functional to the objectives to be achieved. Professor Assennato, director of ARPA, reported at the hearing that the collaboration between the two agencies was perfect. Both in fact through controls typical of an autonomous agency system, not subject therefore to the political power or the music of the Government, as someone has ironically written for the ARPA, will guarantee also thanks to the inspection activities of the ISPRA, with the qualification of judicial police, that necessary autonomy that will be and will remain guarantor to the law, or better guarantor of the law towards the community. All this confirms the capacity of this Parliament and this Government to do, but also to be able to do, avoiding a traumatic event as irreversible as the stop to the production and the shutdown of the plants, which would mark the end not only of an industrial pole and an entire city, but of the Italian steel industry, both in the South and in the North, and, more serious, the reclamation of the territory. Suffice it to point out that the plant produces 75-80 percent of Taranto's GDP and is the guarantor of Italian autonomy over steel. Otherwise, it would be bitter tears for our trade balance for a possible import from countries like India, Germany or China, which with its production covers 50% of the total production, compared to 20% of the European one, half of which is produced in Italy (9 percent). There are 11,431 direct jobs, 3,000 indirect jobs, another 20,000 dependent on the coking plants and the long production chain in Ilva. But it is still not enough, far from Taranto there are four other Italian plants and a couple abroad, without hot working, which depend on their processing work from these blast furnaces. It is difficult to quantify, but there are those who speak of 100,000 Italian wages directly or indirectly linked to the E312 route and to the rest of the steel industry, which are not invented from today to tomorrow. Steel can be produced in another way and therefore it is absolutely necessary to invest in the transformation of the factory and its production cycle while the restoration of the territory, the land, the sea, the air, the aquifers begins. The conflict between fundamental rights at work and health has a long history that begins well before the Ilva of Taranto. It comes from afar, from Italsider, from the chemical plants of Porto Marghera, from Acne di Cengio, from other polluting plants in Liguria, in Puglia, in Tuscany, in Campania, and precisely in Campania the closure of the plant was to be the beginning of the rebirth of the airplane of Bagnoli, a jewel of the Mediterranean, after the seals to the steel production, but twenty years later still expects the recovery of the airplane from the industrial poisons. The only way to try to save work, economy and health is to get rid of the game of those who have been responsible for the disaster in Taranto, making them pay for the costs of reclamation. In the third week of May this seizure was carried out of 1.2 billion euros before and 8.1 billions later, the result of savings on the safety of workers, on the modernization of the plants and on the health of 200,000 citizens. A huge capital which, as the newspapers have written, is worth twice the total IMU revenue and which, according to the magistrates themselves, should be used for a forced recovery of Ilva. If the right to work and health had been taken seriously at Ilva, and before that at Italsider, we would not have been in the current disastrous situation from a social and environmental point of view. I would therefore like to reiterate that only the continuity of production can be a condition for environmental improvement itself. Never before is it necessary to reason not in ideological terms but rather in terms of ideological convergence or, even, ideological confluence, and the solution offered by the provision of extraordinary commissioner management is inspired by the same logic of intergrateful management between environmental and employment needs. This is the case of Linz in Austria and even more of Duisburg in Germany, where the ThyssenKrupp plant has a production comparable to that of Taranto, yet the interventions made in environmental and safety matters make it perfectly compatible with the nearby city. OECD data support us on the way forward, global steel demand is expected to rise to 2.3 billion tonnes by 2025, mainly due to construction, transport and mechanical engineering, especially in emerging economies. It is essential that the Italian steel industry can compete by taking advantage of these market opportunities. The European Commission itself has drawn up a new strategic plan for the steel sector. Italy needs the steel sector to help the growth and competitiveness of other production sectors. Sectors such as steel, chemistry, glass and cement are essential elements of an industrial value chain capable of greening the economy. Steel itself is 100% recyclable and is the most widespread material at the base of the value chain of a product. Ladies and gentlemen, we are opening the prospect of making Ilva plants a reference in Europe, anticipating three years the best available technologies that will be applied in Europe from 2016, creating a plant... PRESIDENT. I invite you to conclude, Senator Mancuso. MANCUSO (PdL). ...which will be the most advanced in Europe in terms of environmental compatibility. It won't be the zero-risk turn, but it might get closer. Thanks to this measure, we too can be proud to have contributed, to the extent of our strength, to this change. I hope that this Government, Mr. Undersecretary, will be remembered as the Government of doing and not letting it do. [[Applause from the PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u35	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u36	Madam President, unfortunately, the senator is now absent, but I would like to tell you something that happened while I was in the Budget Committee waiting for our President to arrive. I heard a fellow Member say: Well, you and your leader bring the 1,600 dead and the sick to the stage. Go conquer the voters like that. He was Senator Warriors Paleotti of the PD. I now invite Senator Zanda, who has been summoned to listen as he wanted his father to believe, to apologize... PRESIDENT. Senator Lezzi, I would ask you to speak on this subject on the agenda. I would ask you for this. Mr Lezzi (M5S). President, I have the right to speak. I'm talking about facts... president. That would be useful to all of us. Thank you. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Senator Scilipoti has taken up the same topic. Let me speak, President. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u37	Not by making names, which is different. It's different.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u38	Mr Lezzi (M5S). It's no different. So I would ask my colleagues in the PD to apologise to the city of Taranto for the deaths they have caused in recent years, because we are certainly innocent. You're the ones who did this! [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Caleo (PD). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please. Please, I ask the whole House to behave properly. There is the Presidency. Again, Senator Lezzi, on the basis of Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to respect the appeals I make to you. I think we all need it. Mr Lezzi (M5S). I would like to respond to Senator Centinario, of whom I approve of the intervention because he is fully right. Why only grant Puglia the privileges of reclamation? I'll tell him. Because, as you know (it is well known), Riva has financed the PD, the Bersani election campaign; therefore, we owe him a favor [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u39	This is really off the charts. And since it is out of the question, I say to you that if you continue, under Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall take away the opportunity to speak. I'll tell him. Please don't insist.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u40	Mr Lezzi (M5S). I said the most important things I had to say. I invite you to shame again because there are people... [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] MIRABELLI (PD). You've turned the Senate Chamber...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u41	Please. Senator's done. I ask everyone to respect the physical behaviour and language used in this House. We will consider what has happened. Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Senator Lucidi exhibits a sign that says: "51%". Senator Sangalli's comments.]] Please remove the sign. CARDINALI (PD). He can't talk without a sign. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Again, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to calm down. I ask the House to return to being respectful of everyone - I insist - in language and physical behavior. In language and physical behavior! Please, Senator Gambaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u42	Madam President, the governments that follow take a particular diligence in the measures that guarantee the survival of companies and production, while delaying, if they do not completely fail, actions to protect health. Of course, industrial and employment needs and needs push those who are to be administered and public opinion towards solutions which have as their priority the objective of safeguarding levels of production and jobs. Who would say that this public urgency to be met is not of primary importance? In twelve months, the last two Governments (Monti and Letta) have issued two decrees save Ilva and appointed a Guarantor for the implementation of the integrated environmental authorization (IAA), of which we ask for the restoration, since this figure has been suppressed in the version of the decree approved to the House, an extraordinary commissioner (Enrico Bondi, already managing director of the company), a sub-commissary (Edo Ronchi) and a committee of three experts. All this has been done, yet they have not yet been able to block the harmful emissions from the steel plant spread over the nearby Tamburi district and the territories of the Municipalities of Taranto and Statte. I had the opportunity last week to take part in the parliamentary delegation at the Ilva in Taranto. I've seen the sites, looked at reliable epidemiological data, and talked to the locals. The health problem is enormous and cannot be ignored by the competent authorities. The scientific findings on the incidence of carcinogens in the atmosphere of that area of Puglia and the occurrence of diseases related to toxic fumes emissions are very alarming. At this point there is no longer any margin for error. I have listened to technical considerations and read very divergent environmental assessments and assessments with respect to the central axis and the concrete perspectives of the standard under consideration. The AIA, the integrated environmental authorization, that is, all the requirements established by the Ministry of the Environment to reduce the pollution of the hot area (mineral parks, coking plants, blast furnaces and steel mills), is the most delicate front for Ilva. On the other hand, the company was commissionered by the Government on 4 June because on the AIA it is clearly late in time, as they have established in the various inspections made by the technicians of ISPRA. Also for the AIA, the Ilva announces that measures have been taken for the immediate containment of the environmental impact both for the conveyed emissions and for the diffused emissions; moreover, a network for the detection and monitoring of emissions (e.g. detection network, park hydrants, nebulisation systems) has been installed and the first orders have been issued for the work in coking plants, blast furnaces, steel mills and for the coverage of secondary parks. The company structure for the adaptation to the AIA requirements and the organizational one for the operating units of the safety and the environment are part, as Bondi announced last July 23 in the audition to the Senate (winners to the Commissions reunited 10a and 13a), of the revision already undertaken by the company. In any case, I hope that in the magnum sea of the measures taken, of the battles without interruption between the administrative and judicial authorities and between the competent bodies and environmental associations, which have joined together, crossed and clashed on the matter, this measure will be direct and constitute a useful starting point to meet the state of medical and environmental necessity which has lasted for years. We also call for the health impact assessment to be restored. As Ilva is the most important steel production centre in Europe and right at the center of the commercial maritime hubs of the Mediterranean, the Taranto plant has also taken on a significant importance from an international observation point. Let us remember that the AIAs issued in 2011 were already in conflict with European Directive 2008/1/EC. We must consider that an efficient resolution of the Ilva case is therefore not only relevant for the future of the Taranto steel poles, but also in the assessment of Italy's foreign reliability, both in the management of the procedures for authorization and environmental controls of industrial companies, and in consistency with the EU directives and regulations. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u44	Illustrated President, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of Ilva di Taranto is the emblem of what has been the role of the State, even in the last twenty years, in the industrial policy of our country and, in particular, in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. The city of Taranto has for years been illusory by our governments to be able to continue, in renewed forms of privatisation, a path of solid and lasting economic development and is now having to choose between the health of their children and the need to safeguard the minimum employment levels of an area already strongly tested by a difficult economic and social crisis. However, the measures proposed by the Government - imposed by the complexity of the judicial initiatives in progress - are a further page of a precarious and provisional political vision, which is not suitable to redesign a serious project for the development and revitalization of the territory concerned. It finds unequivocal confirmation of the political aridity of this Government. Instead, it is necessary to begin to imagine concretely a new future for the entire Taranto area that, while respecting the needs of the world of work, can focus its commitment on the real resources of the territory, such as the sea, culture and tourism. In this perspective we need a courageous and new political vision. The income of citizenship, which yesterday in this House was rejected by the Government and the PD with and without "L," can be the innovative instrument capable of ensuring greater serenity in dealing with a problem in which all too often, on the altar of the interests of the great industry and of some policy-makers of scramble, have sacrificed the fundamental rights of people, including primarily health, especially of children. The call, in other words, to all political forces, right and left, is not to continue to address the problem of the Ilva of Taranto with the logic of those who seek a contingent electoral consensus or, worse, the benevolence of some industrial group. On this point it is sufficient to recall Bondi's shameful statements on pollution in Taranto to understand how, even in this hypothesis, the categories of having continue to arouse a charm often irresistible, that is the electoral slogans of the current President of the Apulian Region, aspiring poet, who recited: "Change the tarantine air with the anti-dioxin law." [[Recalls of the President]] I'm done. Today more than ever, especially in the light of the very recent data on the serious damage to health that have affected the citizenship of the Taranto area concerned in recent years, politics must assume its responsibilities and, first and foremost, that of having courage to trace new horizons of economic and social development, even when this may lead to immediate unpopular choices. For these reasons too, this decree does not constitute and cannot be the right response to the needs of citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u45	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is undoubtedly an important part of the complex process of rehabilitating and adapting one of our country's most strategic economic and industrial realities. I would therefore like to renew my satisfaction with this measure and with the aspects that have been introduced in it also in the light of recent parliamentary readings. It is in fact an indispensable tool for intervention that is located in one of the most complex pages of Italian industrial history. The problem of Ilva, as we know well, is not limited to a few aspects and is not limited to the only plant in Taranto. There are many issues that the Government itself has been called upon to address. And the plan of intervention, represented by three separate decrees-laws that have alternated over the last year, gives the dimension of how much knowledge of urgency and choral will for intervention have been indispensable. The measure of today is therefore part of a path that has developed in years of institutional confrontation, controversy and social exasperation, but that seems to be oriented - finally - towards a process of economic-environmental harmonization, represented by the implementation of a commission, to be considered indispensable condition for the emancipation of the plant and for its very survival. The aim of the measure is to regulate the extraordinary commissioning of an industrial plant of strategic national interest, whose production activity poses serious and significant dangers to the environment and health, due to the non-compliance with the provisions of the integrated environmental authorisation (IAA). The measure operates of the important steps forward arranging the decision of the commissioning of all the iron and steel plants of the company Ilva Spa, including them among those of national strategic interest, pursuant to article 1 decree-law n. 207 of 2012 and conferring to the commissioner and the subcommissary powers for the plans and actions of reclamation previewed from the AIA. As a result, the Commissioner is also given an important role of confrontation with institutions and local communities. This is a pragmatic and forward-looking approach which is certainly at a new stage in the recovery process. It seems appropriate to point out that the measure is innovative also because, for the first time, there is the hypothesis of commissioning a company for reasons related to environmental recovery. Although many criticisms have been made of the way in which the extraordinary commissioner himself was identified, which is in line with the figure of the managing director chosen by the property, the reasons for opportunity, speed and pragmatism also due to the exceptional nature of the case faced have imposed the overcoming of any further reluctance. In this perspective it is also worth paying attention to what was introduced in the House reading the measure itself: in fact in the procedure of the commissioning there must be an expression of the opinion of the competent parliamentary committees, renewing an active involvement of Parliament in the dynamics of intervention of rehabilitation of a highly strategic company for our country. The role of Parliament, which must be seen as fundamental and as a reference point, especially when taking into account the measures which are being taken at the time of the commissioning and which are articulated and particularly important for the future and the potential of the steel plant. What was highlighted in the hearing by Extraordinary Commissioner Enrico Bondi outlines, among other things, the next steps for the rehabilitation of the plants and, among them, the mobilisation and strengthening of the company resources dedicated to the rehabilitation: the verification of the state of implementation of the AIA, the prescriptions of the judiciary and the control bodies, and the support of the preparation and implementation of the new plan of environmental interventions, in order to make it connected and integrated with the industrial plan. For this reason, and we will also be able to ask for it through an agenda, it would be desirable to allow the monitoring of the activities connected with the extraordinary commissioner, given the articulated and strategic nature of the latter, through the presentation of a report on the state of implementation of the measures provided for in the measure to the competent parliamentary committees by the extraordinary commissioner and the sub-Commissioner, precisely in order to preserve this relationship of operational functionality between the commissioner, the plant and the institutions, which - as we have seen - was the most appropriate strategy to overcome a impasse that seemed to have no solution in the short term. But it will also be our care to address a further reflection to the Government on the side of the dynamics and the modalities of execution of the Bonifiche of the plant. Everyone knows the complexity of the reclamation processes of a plant such as that of Taranto, especially because they must be started maintaining the productive use of the site and at the same time ensuring a certain speed in the same operations. We believe it is essential that companies operating in this sector are where possible Italian and not foreign companies, however competent and specialized in this sensitive sector. This is to ensure a kind of consistency with the mission that basically underlies the entire rehabilitation programme that aims to relocate the Italian production system in a new and profitable setting, while avoiding that initiatives characterized by high levels of operational involvement with strong reflections on the future potential of the plant and in general of the Italian industry are paradoxically linked to foreign interlocutors. In this sense a serious mistake would be made. But the path of intervention on the Taranto plant, we know, has been conditioned also by many shadows that have systematically slowed down the dynamics of recovery. We remember the seizure of the cold area of the plant and the finished products by the gip of Taranto in November 2012, an initiative coinciding with the planned date for the start, by Ilva, of the activities established by the plan of the interventions of the new AIA. Therefore, a consequent slowdown in the environmental recovery programme has put both environmental and health protection measures at risk and the same productive continuity. In this scenario has been placed the previous legislative intervention - converted with the law n. 231 of 2012 - that, receiving the new AIA, has established the measures both for the monitoring of the initiatives of the society aimed at the implementation of the prescriptions of AIA, and the pecuniary and administrative penalties in case of non-compliance. This law was undoubtedly the beginning of this new phase, allowing the start of the plan of interventions for the environmental rehabilitation of the plant, despite the opposition of the prosecutor and the gip to the Constitutional Court against the law itself. In April 2013, the Consulta rejected the exceptions of unconstitutionality raised by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic and the gip of Taranto, noting moreover that the measures of environmental recovery of the plant correspond to the objective of safeguarding the contextual right to work and the right to health. Therefore, the decree-law in question is also the instrument through which it was intended to give continuity to the implementation of Law n. 231 of 2012 also in the light of the reasons of the judgment of the Consulta. Let us not forget that the decree-law has an ambitious objective, that of harmonising several aspects of the same problem: economic potential, labour law, environmental protection and health. Elements that may seem conflicting and whose methods of protection have not always seen a cross-cutting consensus. But the measure has shown that a renewed mentality in the dynamics of intervention and correction of the operation of an industrial site or of any productive reality that presents some criticalities can lead to profitable results. As has been clearly pointed out also during the discussion in the competent Commissions, the decree can easily be a practice of excellence potentially applicable in similar cases. This last step of the path of sustainable restoration of Ilva is a metaphor of the ability to intervene of the Italy system and of how this can be finely adapted to the changing needs of the Country. Everything must revolve around a renewed environmental mentality of the country, which can overcome prejudices and above all certain constraints - fueled more by ideological pressures - in order to arrive at a new season where, as I said, economic growth cannot conflict with a real sustainable development of production processes. [[Applause from the SCPI Group and Senator Zin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u47	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u48	Madam President, I would like to thank my colleagues and colleagues who have had the pleasure of staying here, hoping that some of the ears will be attentive to what we are saying. I only have three minutes to do my speech. I hope I do not run into the Presidency's snares: I do not have to mention anyone, but I take advantage of the little time available to me, before I enter into the substance of my speech, to clarify a concept expressed by my colleague Lezzi of the 5 Star Movement. I think it was absolutely right and peaceful, not worthy of any censorship, to recall the well-known fact that Mr. Riva financed Mr. Pierluigi Bersani with 98,000 euros and in the same way...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u49	I'll call you back, too, please. Riva has something to do with Ilva, not others.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u50	BUCCARELLA (M5S). I think there's something about it. I conclude by recalling for par condice also the 245,000 euros that the Riva family paid to finance the People of Freedom. I'm going straight to the point, because time is tyrant. I wanted to draw to your attention the criticality of paragraph 9 of article 1 of the decree-law, which risks introducing into our legal system a very dangerous passage through which, today in Taranto and tomorrow in other plants, can be guaranteed a substantial impunity to extraordinary commissioners and those appointed by them. More precisely, reading the text of the article, it is understood that the mere formal preparation of the plan of measures and activities of environmental and health protection for the compliance with the prescriptions of the AIA, referred to in paragraph 5, and of the industrial plan of conformation of the productive activities, provided for in paragraph 6, exempts the commissioner, the subcommissor and the experts of the committee, for possible facts of criminal and administrative importance, from having to respond before the judicial authority... for the illicit activities.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So, we're not just talking about formal compliance with the AIA prescriptions, which we know are still being violated today. The members of the Senate Environment Commission who visited the plants I believe a week ago (or a little less) found with their eyes the presence of landfills and fugitive emissions, as well as the absolute ineffectiveness of systems for the abatement of particulates of coal such as these of the watering, which really seem to be totally inefficient. But what is contained in this rule is that, not only the AIA requirements, even if they are complied with, they exclude - this should also be reasonable - the Commissioner and his nominees from any kind of responsibility, but also all other rules to protect the environment and health. Madam President, the fear of tarantos, Taranto and, one day, of other establishments in other cities... Please conclude, Senator Buccarella. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, I'm finishing, Madam President. As I said, the fear is that we can create bodies that, in legal jargon, are legibus solute: these are people who are aliens, that is, superior to the law, who may not respond, either at criminal or administrative level, to environmental violations. We know how much we owe, as a nation, to Taranto citizens who are still paying a very expensive price (and not just them). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u53	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, on a point of order on Rule 90 of the Senate Rules of Procedure, which provides that you may make a reference to speakers who go out of the question. I would simply like to reiterate that I believe that the issues put forward by my fellow Members when they are dealing with a measure concerning Ilva di Taranto, whose owner is Mr Riva, and refer to facts which are well known (I quote no one)... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Perfect. Riva is correct. CRIMI (M5S). Yes, Riva. As I said, speeches which refer to facts which clearly influence and politically (we are in general discussion) identify a position whereby those who decide in this House may be influenced, I believe, are somehow relevant to the sphere of what we are going to decide.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u54	I take note. We have a different opinion. The difference is clear to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u55	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, representative of the Government, we are very sorry that this House is quite empty during this debate, because this measure is extremely important and, above all, because it should really bring us closer together on a subject that is the idea of development that we have and, above all, the relationship between the idea of development, health and the environment. With what happened to Ilva, we had, in years and years, an intervention that was absolutely heavy. 18.10 p.m. (continued DE PETRIS). There has been a prevalence, without any kind of limit, of the demands of production, of an idea of a bacato development, compared to what was the right to the health of citizens, with everything that this has meant - it is now established, even like the data - in terms of large-scale pollution, not only in the city of Taranto, and of damage caused to the health of citizens. I would like to point out here that as SEL we wanted this measure, because we asked for it to come to the Ilva police station, in contrast to the previous decree, which, in our opinion, was unable to address the dramatic issues of Ilva and, therefore, environmentalization, environmental protection and the health of citizens and workers. It was a decree in our opinion once again complacent with the property of the Riva. As SEL we wanted this decree because we thought - and we think - that the commissioner was the only way to try, in the name of the public interest and therefore of the citizens, to make an important operation: not to quit production, but to make it absolutely sustainable from an economic, environmental and social point of view: sustainable for a city that has given so much, that has suffered and suffers. We realized the exasperation and mistrust of the citizens by going on a mission to Taranto and Ilva during the hearings held by the relevant Commissions. The Commissariat had to be aimed at making this possible. That is why I repeat that we strongly wanted this decree. However, we must say that the decree-law at our examination is, also for the changes made by the House (modifications not improving, but worsening), a missed opportunity. This is because it could become - we still hope this will happen - an opportunity for this country of ours. This is the first time that a Commission has been set up for environmental reasons: we are therefore not talking about a Commission under the so-called Marzano law, therefore for reasons of a bankrupt and economic nature. For the first time, we had the opportunity to put Article 41 of our Constitution into practice and to test it. Instead, we believe that this was a missed opportunity because, once again, we did not have the courage to have in mind only and only the public interest and interest of Taranto, and a number of limiting rules have been introduced that make this, in our opinion, a wasted opportunity. Let us be clear: it is also a test of modernity and innovation, because ensuring that not only the requirements of the AIA are implemented, but above all that environmental and health sustainability of production is ensured in the most successful way possible, requires, if this really is to be done, to put in the field of technological innovation, the ability also to put in place a know-how that would be essential for the modernization of steel production systems and that perhaps, if the company had been more forward-looking, it could have made us more competitive in Europe and in the rest of the world. I speak of a lost opportunity and arrival to those who, in our opinion, are the critical elements of this decree-law. First of all, the Commissioner's question. I wanted to point out that we wanted the commissioning and the decree-law, but with the choice of Bondi it has once again proved that the Government and the Commissions of the House have not been able to free themselves from the Riva. Bondi had been chosen precisely by the Riva as CEO, so I wonder how it is done - I say this clearly, I said it in the Commission, we tried to reason - not to understand that there is an objective incompatibility. I would like to draw everyone's attention here to the fact that this is an incompatibility that Commissioner Bondi immediately made clear at the same time as he even decided to send the Puglia Region an answer, inter alia on behalf of the company, on the regional law on health damage assessment. There the conflict of interest and incompatibility became clear and precise, although the Commissioner then made a point. The other serious question is that of having eliminated, always with changes introduced by the House, the figure of the guarantor: it is a very serious mistake, precisely because it has chosen to appoint extraordinary Commissioner Bondi. Therefore, on the one hand we have incompatibility and on the other we are faced with the elimination of a figure that was the guarantor for the implementation of the AIA, that had done its job well and that gave guarantees to the citizens. That's the other aspect. I also tell the speakers here, who are senators of the Puglia Region, so they should know even more than I do how fundamental it is to rebuild a relationship of trust between institutions and citizens, to show, not only to chat but concretely, that you want to change and finally put hand to that dramatic situation. With regard to the issue of the guarantor, I also find it serious that, on the agenda which the majority adopted, after having de facto decided to withdraw its amendments and to declare the decree-law inadmissible in the Commission, it has not even taken charge of the possibility of considering in a subsequent measure the fact that it can take action on the issue of the guarantor. The other issue is the assessment of health damage. You know that in July last year the Puglia Region passed an important law, and it had been included in the AIA procedure anyway. With an amendment, again in the House, it was in fact intended to greatly reduce the scope of the assessment of health damage, which should no longer intervene on the AIA itself. I find this to be serious, because when there are legislation put forward from this point of view (so there is no longer only the AIA, there is no longer only the environmental impact assessment, but also the health impact assessment), with an amendment by the government - very serious - it is made so that this is ineffective and should not be taken into account, establishing a methodology (that of a decree-law) that is certainly not the one recognized also at European level. These issues have greatly reduced the possibility that the decree-law in question can actually make us take a step forward: for this reason I am talking about a missed opportunity. Take a good look, here too you wanted to change the provision, but you cannot think that you can derogate from the AIA or make sure that its prescriptions are not fully implemented. The AIA must be implemented, improved, it can be made more effective and this must be the task of the commissioners, and I trust, because I believe it, that the subcommissive to the environment will do so. You understand, and I start to conclude, Mr President, that these three issues I am talking about are the example of the fact that for the first time there has been a police station for environmental reasons, to give answers to citizens and workers, and immediately this opportunity has been lost. I invite you once again; you still have the opportunity to rethink it and to make sure that this first commission really is a sign of change, not only for Ilva, but for many other factories that are waiting for it. Consider the ranking that came out a few days ago on the incidence of cancer: Taranto, Porto Marghera, Civitavecchia. Let us reflect, it is time to give a boost, because respecting the environment and the health of citizens and workers also means doing a great deal of technological innovation. This is the development we want. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Gambaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u57	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u58	Mr President, fellow senators, the Government intervened with Decree-Law No 61 of 2013 to deal with an emergency situation following the preventive seizure of property owned by Mr Riva; a seizure, as we all know, that has a value of 8.1 billion euros. This is a situation, Mr President, which risks causing the closure of the Ilva plants, not only of the Ilva di Taranto, but also of the related companies throughout the national territory. The company Ilva keeps in Taranto all the hot processes, which are the most polluting of the entire steel supply chain. This is a highly impacting industrial initiative for the territory, which for forty years has continued to pollute soil, groundwater and air quality, without adequate safety measures being taken for the environment and public health. While it is true that greater sensitivity to environmental issues was born only in the 1990s, it is equally true that in recent decades Ilva has done nothing - and I repeat: nothing - to adapt the plant to the best available techniques and to the AIA authorization. However, despite the persistent interventions of the judiciary, which only in the last two years seems to have remembered the environmental criticalities of Taranto and the Tamburi district, all agree on the need to continue the industrial activity of the plant in Taranto, both for employment reasons, and to be able to ensure the effective realization of the investments necessary for the environmental recovery of the area and avoid the repetition of a situation similar to that of Bagnoli. I reminded President Vendola, in the meeting that took place in the prefecture when we went on mission with the two competent Commissions, the fact that the Ilva of Taranto is seen from the satellite much better than the Great Wall in China. Therefore the situation of Ilva is particular, both for the company structure and the related employment implications spread throughout the national territory, and for the environmental criticality of the area and for the territorial extent of pollution, and is unique in the Italian steel sector. That's the news. In twelve months, two governments, Monti and Letta, were able to issue three decrees "salva-Ilva", to appoint a guarantor, to appoint an extraordinary commissioner, to appoint a subcommissor, a committee of three experts and an endless team of consultants, engineers and technicians. It has been a year spent in institutional and judicial battles, a year of conflicts between experts, judges and environmentalists; a year in which nothing has changed, Mr President, or almost nothing has changed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] A year that served only to increase resignation and fear among the Taranto population. As the Lega Nord Group, we have been very critical of all the "ad aziendam" measures taken for Ilva, because we believe that the commissioner is to be limited only to the factory in Taranto - and, for the love of Heaven, we keep Mr Prodi away from this affair; please, Mr President, take charge of this - and because we have asked the Government to extend the same measure to the other sites in the North. There are many amendments, also tabled to the first decree, which provided for this possibility. Even those in the North are companies of national strategic interest, Mr President. We are critical, because Commissioner Bondi's position brings to mind the comedy of the Goldoni "Harlequin servant of two masters": something that is probably not possible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Criticism because the evolution of the Ilva case will be the test bench on which the ability of this country to be reliable and consistent will be evaluated, and we have not always demonstrated this in the past, Mr President. Criticism also because this was the opportunity to resume, strengthened, the industrial policy that seems lost. Italy already has 3 million unemployed, and certainly it is not necessary to stop the productive activity - this the North League has never asked - because stopping Ilva means consequently putting an end to the steel industry in Italy; because stopping Ilva means closing the sites of Genoa Cornigliano, Novi Ligure (which we also visited with the Commissions) and Racconigi. There's no time. This was told when the decree came back from the House. There's no time, you have to run to approve it. Yet the area of Taranto, its inhabitants have been the subject of forty years of caress, of not works, of omissions. Perhaps, Mr President, it is also my fault, but surely it is your fault, for your utmost fault. The production and environment committees have been able to see closely the reality of the factories in Taranto and to see the criticality of the situation regarding the health of the citizens. I don't know if I have to apologize to the inhabitants of the Tamburi neighborhood and the entire city of Taranto, but I do, we do, but I don't think I have to. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In a mill at the end of the century, Mr President, on a visit by the king and the queen and the king's sons, the owner had deployed only the staff present in the factory: the most beautiful girls, the healthy men, the bald young men. The sickest workers, the maimed, the sick, those who were truly crippled, made them stay at home. This is a bit of what happened during our visit to Ilva, Mr President: intense cleaning work throughout our journey. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , closure of some department considered probably inappropriate, management staff to the full, few workers. They showed us for a few hours also a fantastic plastic and nothing came out of the chimneys of that plastic. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There was no smoke coming out of those chimneys, there was no strong wind typical of the sea areas that would take away the heaps of residual products of the foundries that were also present in the plastic. The aim of the multiple hearings both in the Senate and in the prefecture in Taranto and of the visits to the Ilva factories of Novi Ligure and Taranto was to build a picture of information and knowledge that would be useful in the examination of the decree-law. All this work, Mr President (I can assure you), has been reduced to mere personal enrichment on the issue of the Ilva site. I didn't know anything. I know a lot now. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But all this personal enrichment of my own and of my colleague present at the visit, Mr President, has remained exclusively an end in itself. For this reason we have not at all married the orientation of the "nothing modify" in order to avoid the decadence of the decree. Mr President, the failure to touch the driver has enabled this House, the High House, to have such a low role in this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , a provision that arrives in the Senate and about which it is known with certainty that no one will be able to modify it. Mr President, for the attention that the North League has had for this decree, for the work we have done in the Commission, for the free advice that this Group has given in the two branches of Parliament in the examination of the three decrees, we in the North and Autonomous Leagues Group, for all this and again for the many things we have done, we feel a little 'in the role of Sisyphus: like him, Mr President, we have been sure to do a useless job; as Sisyphus we pushed a boulder up the mountain and then see it rolling downstream. And as we see things in this House, we are sure, Mr President, that this will not happen for eternity, as is the case with poor Sisyphus, but only until the end of this anomalous parliamentary term supported by an anonymous majority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Lucidi and Mancuso. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u59	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enrolled to speak, who will also present the G101 agenda during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u60	Mr President, Civic Choice is in favour of the bill of conversion of the so-called Ilva decree. It is an attempt to find an advanced balance between environmental, health and work problems. The text sent by the House is - in our opinion - acceptable, and the decision not to submit amendments - taken by the majority parties at the request of the Government - is, as it were, mitigated by the preparation of the agenda G101, widely shared, which commits the Government to intervene promptly on some issues emerged during the work of the Commissions in the Senate, without distorting the decree in question. The measure identifies the Commissariat as the most suitable instrument for overcoming the AIA inadmissibility at a pre-established time and, at the same time, ensures that business activity retains employment and generates the necessary resources for AIA inadmissibility to be overcome. The measure is also concerned to ensure that the ownership of the plant - suspended for a different and better management - is protected by measures of transparency and guarantee, also in the drafting of the industrial plan. It is important to stress that, if the status of the Guarantor is removed, the Commissioner is given a broad delegation to communicate to the local communities and to Parliament what is happening within the plant. It is also important that the measure establishes three experts on the three critical points of this affair: health, the environment and industrial activity. I would like to conclude with two more general points. In his hearing at the Senate's Environment and Production Commissions, Subcommissive Ronchi stressed the profound ethical significance of the grand political and economic operation currently underway at Ilva. If a manufacturing country like Italy, which consumes almost 30 million tons of steel every year, would renounce to produce much of the steel it needs, it would act in an ecologically irresponsible way, dumping on other peoples the environmental and health risks associated with this type of production. I doubt that in the steel mills of Ukraine - the first country from which Italy imports steel - strict environmental and occupational safety standards are respected. There are factories as large as Ilva which can produce environmentally sustainablely, such as the large steel works in Duisburg in Germany. We must accept the challenge of doing so in Italy as well. According to Civic Choice, the procedures identified by this bill and the men to whom these procedures have been entrusted are a sufficient guarantee to try to overcome the challenge. Finally, as I will emphasise together with other colleagues on an agenda that we hope the Government will accept, the great attention of policy on these issues should also result in the promotion by the Government of more rigorous studies on the health risk represented by the major industrial complexes of the past and the present. The studies available today for Italy do not use the statistical and epidemiological data and techniques available today in an intensive way. It is important that this gap is quickly filled, in order to ensure an ever stricter monitoring of the health of citizens and workers. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u62	Mr President, I am very sorry that there are a few of us left because this is a Parliament, so it is the place where we speak and where we listen, and if we confine ourselves to the phase of the word without that of listening we lose the possibility of hearing some things: for example, the truth about this measure. When making a law it is not always necessary to think about its good use - always assuming that the provision is written in good faith - but also to what uses, let's say, strange can be subjected to this provision by someone who wants to respect it in form, but not in substance. So, basically, the measure says that any establishment with a certain number of employees that is declared of national interest can be commissary. This is a serious matter, because it introduces a distortion in the market that the European Union will surely make us pay for. Indeed, whenever it opens an infringement procedure against us, we must pay for it, but we do not pay for it: it always pays for the citizen. It would be interesting if we had to pay. Let us see, then, why the European Union could open infringement proceedings against us. It could open them because, if a plant is stationed, the Commissioner is not criminally responsible for what he does in the implementation of the AIA for 36 months, nor are the persons he delegates responsible for it (therefore, he can delegate many). It therefore happens that this plant operates by way of derogation from the principles of the AIA, that is, it can pollute where someone else who complies with the requirements of the AIA cannot do it: this is a distortion of the market, because someone operates according to rules that do not apply to others. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The European Union will be aware of this and, if it does not notice, perhaps some of us will let it know. Secondly, inside the plant there are a lot of landfills. This was said by Bondi himself, calling them temporary storage sites, which are nothing more than open-air landfills, which are done without even the slightest control, so much so that there are measures for the seizure of the judiciary. Great. Then, when the Commissioner is allowed to place these landfills at his discretion and is not criminally responsible for it, he can store waste from the unknown composition, pollute and is not criminally responsible, with additional cost for the community. Of course, the European Union will ask us: but why do you allow this to happen? Second infringement procedure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Third possible infringement procedure (then we open the bets). The European Union could say: there is a Commissioner appointed by the State, the State is helping someone in favour of someone else. And there are three of us: state aid. We have been condemned on these things all the time and have not yet learned. Some might say: after all we only have 104 open procedures, let's do 107; what changes for three more? We always have to pay anyway. That is the truth: if we want to extend the Ilva method and create a forest of commissariat companies that operate by way of derogation, Let's face it. Personally if I were an entrepreneur whose company pollutes, I would be the first to stand in line and ask to be a police station, so for 36 months I would be protected. Is that what we want to do? Great. Then we have to be aware of what we are going to vote on; after that we get out of here and take responsibility for it with our fellow citizens. In conclusion, this measure makes water from all sides. There would be an opportunity to let him go, because it is a bad measure, and to agree to make him a better one. We would have given the Commission a willingness to ensure that our amendments contributed to the improvement. We have always thought that this was the place where to make the best law provision possible and not that of someone or someone else: there is no law of anyone! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Some Senators of the Group stand up.]] The laws are of everyone: we approve them, but they are of everyone, and it should be our precise duty to do the best we can. When someone tells you, for free: look at this amendment, it's long and you'll have to waste some time, but it's interesting, try it, and the answer is: no, because I'm the majority and I'm making my own provision, not yours, that's what I call barracks hazing. It will happen that the next round will come someone else who will use the same systems and say: in the old round I have suffered, now suffer you. This is not the way to proceed. There was an opportunity, we still have it: let it go, let the European Union not open three infringement procedures against us (because there are at least three) and let us try to do things right for once. This is an invitation: we still make it in time, I would like everyone to accept it. I do not use all the time at my disposal because I believe that what was said was substantial, but I would add a consideration. There is one fundamental thing that usually happens when a company is shaky (and the Riva traballa factory): a new company is created (we saw it with Alitalia), it is subcapitalized, it is given bad things and after a while it declares itself bankrupt. At that point, no one economically responds to all the damage. The judicial guardians have said that to put the situation right it takes 8 billion, Bondi said it can put 1.8: I would like to know how we can make 1.8 billion become 8 billion, unless we change the numbering system. And that's just for the hot zone and the mining parks. There is absolutely no mention of Bonifice. It's called integrated environmental authorisation, but that's not it: it's integrated authorization to put the plant in place at least a little bit. This is the truth: take it and do with it what you want. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iurlaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, on the one hand the work, the employment drama, that drama experienced by numbers of Apulian freshmen, Salento, fathers and mothers of families, children and grandchildren, even childhood friends of those who, like me, have been living in close contact with the Ilva problem for years, with its economic and social repercussions on thousands of families. On the other hand, the environment, the air we breathe, the air that I and my children breathe, my loved ones, the air, the smells, the land and the sea of my province, my city and my territory. I cannot, and like me, can not any of my colleagues from PdL Puglia, regardless of either of the two great themes that revolve around the affair Ilva: work, indeed, and environment. To protect both of them, of course. To many - I realize - this may seem utopian; for me, however, it is absolutely essential. The future of Taranto and of our Region, Puglia, passes and will pass, today as in a century, from a necessary harmony of two sides of the same medal now called to merge. We Senators know that, even better than we do, families who ask the State and the Government to overcome a phase that is rightly considered anachronistic. This is the premise that many, perhaps, will appear only ideological because the facts, in the recent past, have said something else. But the facts also say that it is impossible, intolerable, irresponsible even to hypothesize the closure of the plant, as if it were to simulate with a computer program a house without foundations, without roofs, even without doors. Thus, the possible uses of a territory without Ilva are absolutely inconceivable, although rooted in the blast furnaces is an entire occupational system that binds professionals, employees, officials, workers and security guards of the territory with company and plant. The closure of the plant, rather, would result in a dramatic fracture that we cannot afford. We cannot do this today, we could not do it even tomorrow if we will not be able to develop new business realities able to compensate for what Ilva, year of the Lord 2013, represents for the work system of the entire South Italy, but - I would add - the whole of Italy. The challenge, rather, is and will be another: the real challenge will be to find solutions with ever more definitive time that, allowing the largest steel plant in Europe to continue to produce, and therefore not to lose, but, indeed, to attract new investments, can at the same time guarantee the resources necessary for the investment necessary for the implementation of the AIA's requirements. What is more, we must find solutions that, over time, can make Europe's largest steel plant the model par excellence of a new way of doing industry in Italy, in Europe itself, throughout the world. Ilva, for over half a century, has produced no soap bubbles: we all know that. Just as we know that mistakes in the past have been made: from its position, close to the city and a neighborhood mortified by the development of the god money, to the serious, grave omissions in the environmental field. But Ilva has also represented for entire communities the hope of a home, economic independence, perhaps a fictitious well-being for themselves and for their families. Environmental protection and employment represent inalienable rights for every individual citizen, for every human being. That is why I hope that today's debate will be aimed at the intrinsic attempt in our mandate to improve, not to destroy, to speak of concrete things that go, precisely, from the air we breathe and that we will breathe to the paycheck of the father of the family or of the young husband with still dreams and hopes. My appeal is to the government, a government called to make available resources already allocated for the Bonifice. A government called to monitor carefully any type of activity, first and foremost those aimed at the release of the AIA. A government that can analyze, evaluate and resolve the entire Taranto case, from the absence and lack of infrastructure to the social crisis. A government that does not put citizens in front of an impossible choice: to starve or die from the air they must necessarily breathe. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u66	Mr President, the decree-law that we are about to convert into law introduces a profound novelty in the exercise of property rights for the protection of the environment and health. This measure is based on an emergency - that of the Ilva plant in Taranto - that risks the closure due to the refusal of the controlling shareholder, the Riva family, to comply fully with the integrated environmental authorisation, issued by the Ministry of the Environment: a refusal to which the Taranto judiciary has had to react with restrictive measures of the business activity. These measures, if left to themselves, would put a strain on business continuity and, therefore, on the continuity of work. If it is therefore true that this measure starts from the emergency Ilva, it is also true that it opens a new way to resolve environmental emergencies going beyond the dynamics between the failing company and the investigative judiciary. Let us be clear: the supervision of the prosecutor and the courts over the near past and the remote past cannot and must not fail neither today nor ever, but the construction of tomorrow belongs in the first place to the enterprise and to the whole of its stakeholders and, when this is not enough, as at Ilva it is not enough, the word must be returned to politics. The new route consists of the possibility of commissary the establishment or the polluting undertaking when it comes to the list of sites of national interest. In these cases, the Government assumes the responsibility to temporarily suspend the rights of ownership in order to balance the same property rights with the right to work and the right to health and life in an environment that respects the ecological parameters established on a scientific basis, and therefore verifiable, by the bodies entrusted with this (and not by what was last read by clicking on Google). The establishment of the Commissariat has up to now been restricted to cases of insolvency by large companies and this has led to the disappearance of the old property, which is now unable to meet its obligations with creditors. The Parmalat case can be assumed, for example, for the extent of the failure, and for the happy outcome of the commissionership, which has allowed to recover more than 2 billion from the banks complicit in Tanzi and to bring the company back to profit, saving the bulk of the jobs. In cases of environmental emergency, on the other hand, there is not always insolvency. In the case of Ilva, in particular, the balance sheet is still sound and the economic accounts of the last seventeen years (I took the trouble to go and reread the budgets) show an accumulated gross operating margin of about 7 billion euros. However, the creation of value for shareholders is a legitimate objective that finds its limit in compliance with contracts, first among all those of work, and in compliance with laws, first of all environmental ones. For this reason, the property is not cancelled, but is suspended in the exercise of its rights for the necessary time - at most 36 months, says the measure - which is deemed necessary to restore the environment of the establishments. The bet that starts with this decree-law is to restore Ilva - and tomorrow the companies that were in the same condition - with the money generated by their management and then return to the property a better company, perhaps with some extra debt due to ecological investments, but also more efficient and able to regain soon more solid balances. To this end, the Senate Environment and Industry Commissions held numerous hearings and two important missions to Taranto and Novi Ligure, where everyone was heard. In this regard, I would like to thank the officials of the Senate who helped us in these missions for their diligence and commitment. Well, the two Commissions have presented an agenda, accepted by the Government, which intends to strengthen the Commissioner and the subcommissor on four very sensitive fronts (we have presented an agenda because it was not possible, for the needs of parliamentary work, to do otherwise). First, the commissariat needs credit to invest; then, working, it will repay but at the beginning, without the confidence of the banks, it does not part. This is why it takes the prededucibility of new funding in case of default (I speak of new funding for the commissioner, not old people who follow the normal course). Secondly, the Commissioner must be able to resolve and possibly renegotiate relations with the related parties (in the specific case, so we all understand each other, with the companies belonging to the Riva group but not to the Ilva group). It is typical of companies like Ilva, which are part of larger groups, to delegate to the controlling holding companies a whole range of functions and information that mean money and power. Bondi or not Bondi, if Riva keeps control of computer systems and treasury no commissioner can ever go far. Thirdly, Commissioner, sub-Commissioner and the technicians they delegate must be protected from objective responsibility, enshrined in Law No 231 of 2001, when they come to work on a scene that, at the moment, does not comply with the law; otherwise no one will be able to do this work. We are working to restore and restore the company; it is clear that at first it is not. Fourth point. The management of waste, both of those inherited and of those that will be produced working, must be traced back to normal, through the intervention of the Ministry of the environment on proposal of the commissioner and hear the Region and the ARPA. We hope that these points, which are necessary for the smooth running of the work of the Commissioner and the sub-Commissioner, will be accepted by the Government in the first useful measure. Without a strong and transparent commissariat, obliged to report to Parliament and to the territories, but at the same time not halved by rissose assemblages and therefore, precisely because not halved, fully responsible, the risk to Ilva and the companies that will find themselves in the same situations is death by asphyxiation. There's a whole world that doesn't want Ilva healed, but it wants her dead. First of all, European and non-European competitors, to whom it would not seem true to see blast furnaces disappear which were and remain among the most productive on the old continent. And it would not seem true to them to avoid having a benchmark that would force them to pursue environmental investment. But then there is a whole world that dreams of the replacement of productive income, done in respect of the environment and health (we want to repeat it again), with public subsidies: unemployment subsidies, which would become inevitable in case the 16,000 jobs connected to the Ilva of Taranto, and subsidies for the reclamation of that huge industrial site, because - let us remember - if the Ilva closes the Riva will let the society fail and the reclamation will be charged to public finances, not private ones. And an endless work, at the expense of the State as would be the reclamation of a closed Ilva, would also be the most suitable ground for the infiltrations of organized crime, the mafias of contracts: let's face it today, in order not to be surprised then tomorrow and shout at the scandal. In conclusion, one final remark. Today the West is rediscovering the importance of industry. He believed, in the wake of financial globalisation, that banks, stock exchanges, businesses and services were sufficient to keep advanced societies standing. The great crisis from which we have not yet emerged has revealed to us that that type of globalization, which unifies everything but not the rights and less than ever the rights of the job, has generated regression and impoverishment for the majority of the people who live of their work. The recovery, from the democratic America of Obama to the United Kingdom of Conservative Cameron, from Japan to Germany, goes through the revival of industry, not through the revival of words. Saving Ilva by saving the environment is a bet to win for all of us. Deindustrialization of Puglia today, tomorrow of Italy as an environmental success, instead, is equivalent to rendering an unpaid service - so I imagine - to financial capitalism that does not eliminate steel and does not even love the environment, but prefers a distant steel industry and does not matter if, where it ends, it pollute even more than today our planet. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u67	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u68	I call the rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u69	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank all the Members who have spoken. Many interventions (not all, unfortunately, but many), also in the profound diversity of the opinions they have presented, give a sense of full understanding of the effort that we are all making to face a unique situation in the industrial history of our country. A situation which concerns first and foremost a large city in the Mezzogiorno, which is experiencing a drama in the conflict that has exploded between work, the environment and health. A situation of extraordinary difficulty of the largest steel plant in Europe and of the more than 15,000 direct and indirect workers who find work there, a decisive part of our country's industrial future in international competition. Therefore, the debate has certainly taken a very large part - I repeat - of the real meaning of the issues that are also at the root of this further measure in our examination. I would like to reiterate quickly a concept which has emerged in the course of the debate: we are not faced with a purely bureaucratic calculation of an opportunistic nature when the majority of the Groups decide to face with responsibility the need to convert this decree into law in order to avoid its decadence, which would run the risk of occurring when we were to imagine a further transition to the Chamber of Deputies. We have consciously decided to complete the process of this decree because we dare not imagine what could result in the forfeiture of a provision within which there are choices that many of us believe and the Government has considered decisive for the objective of saving together the industrial future of that plant, the occupation, the protection of health, the effort of environmental rehabilitation of the city and the plant of Ilva of Taranto. The revocation of the measure would mean the loss of the special commissioner and, therefore, the return - last mentioned by Mr Cucchetti - to the ownership of the management of that plant, to that property which has been responsible in recent years not only for resounding violations of environmental protection sanctioned by the intervention of the judiciary, but which has shown total irresponsibility in recent months not even fulfilling the stringent requirements of the integrated environmental authorisation. Secondly, there would be no obligation to draw up, within the AIA procedure, the plan of measures for the protection of the environment and health and at the same time the industrial plan, plan plan plan planners of interventions functional to the full application of the AIA. There would be less constraint, which this measure clearly defines, to allocate all the resources deriving from the productive continuity of the Ilva plant in Taranto priority to environmental rehabilitation and the implementation of the AIA's requirements. I would also like to refer to Mr De Petris in particular, with whom we have discussed a great deal in recent days, albeit with different opinions, the inclusion for the first time in national legislation of a strong link between the AIA and the assessment of health damage. It is a novelty that in the relevant legislation of our country these aspects are linked in a rule of law and now they really need a coherent framework at national level. Finally, there would be less release of a part of the resources defined a year ago with a protocol of understanding recovered in the decree-law last August, with which resources are allocated to the reclamation activity. Here, this is what would fail if we consented, if we risked the forfeiture of this provision. I should like to add a final comment on the figure of the Commissioner. I met for the first time a few days ago, during the visit to Taranto, Dr. Enrico Bondi. I believe that the call for incompatibility is a false problem: Bondi was appointed on 11 April CEO of Ilva and 5 June Extraordinary Commissioner of the Government. I agree, however, that all subjects in the field, starting with the extraordinary commissioner, to whom this decree entrusts the tasks previously assigned to the Guarantor for the AIA, are to work so that there is a constant conversation in terms of information, listening, consultation with local communities. I think that this task, attributed to the Commissioner, Dr Enrico Bondi, must be carried out with great acumen, intelligence and attention. I said a few days ago, during the hearing before the Commissions meeting 10 a and 13a, and I want to repeat this here, that the social climate is favourable. A social climate in which all subjects, from active citizenship to social and trade union forces, local institutions, inspection bodies, to those who today have the task of managing the company in this delicate passage, listen to each other to build a sustainable synthesis is not an independent factor for the success of this extraordinary and unique attempt to put in place an operation that saves the company and jobs, but initiates at the same time a great work of environmental rehabilitation and health protection. They are aware of this, I believe, both the Commissioner and Parliament. All of us will be watching with the Government for the full success of this measure. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u70	I call the rapporteur, Senator Bruni.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u71	Mr President, to what Senator Tomaselli said I would add just a few concepts to sum up the outcome of the general debate. Much of the speeches focused on the figure of the Commissioner, as Senator Tomaselli said earlier. Well, some of the critical elements that have been reiterated in some of the speeches relate to the lack of criteria for appointment. But those who, even with amendments, wanted to hypothesize new criteria or to repeat them by referring to figures already introduced in the legal order, such as that of the commissioners for companies in insolvency, did not consider that here we are faced with a totally different case that required an even more extraordinary figure in itself than that which is normally implicit in the very concept of commissioner. The Commissioner also acquires - it has been said - the powers that the Guarantor had in the previous interventions made by the legislator and, in particular, in the decrees last year. The figure of the Guarantor, in itself, had its function and its validity, but then the activity really carried out, for what we have seen, was not so copious and so significant, so it can be quietly, I do not say surrogate, but included in the powers, tasks and tasks that will be entrusted to the Commissioner, especially in terms of information - here I share what my colleague Mrs De Petris said - and of the involvement of citizenship, which remain priority objectives but which, with the current means of participation and sharing that can be identified, can be tasks safely entrusted to the Commissioner. Other questions raised are those relating to production needs. It should be recalled here that the decree has as its object all the plants of strategic national interest, but it is obvious that the discussion is constantly influenced by the story of Taranto. Here the demands of production are those of a city in crisis and not only for Ilva, because it no longer has that significant installation of military activities that it had in Italy after the war. However, Ilva remains the establishment of an important company for that type of city. Among other things, there is the risk that, with non-strategic choices (here we call for President Mucchetti's intervention), Italy will permanently move away from the steel market and resolve, for example (it has been said in recent weeks) the problem of European steel over-production, implicitly eliminating only itself, but resolving the problem of European over-production. This would be a mockery, not for Taranto, but for the Italian system. However, most of the interventions, amendments and efforts to accompany this decree-law and the corresponding bill of conversion were focused on health protection requirements. We must say one important thing: the Sentieri project, which has been called up several times, and all epidemiological investigations greatly divide the scientific community and highlight the need for a new research and epidemiology activity that can lead to much more unique and objective data, allowing easier reading of the problem. Well, I would conclude by saying that all these needs (health, work, property), all constitutionally protected, with different articles that are useless to reiterate here, are nevertheless summarized in this decree which, in fact, is the son of Article 41 of the Constitution: I refer to that article, quoted by many colleagues, according to which the private economic initiative is free, but cannot take place in contrast to the social usefulness and everything that follows and which is well said in the same Constitutional Charter. For this reason, I believe that the decree-law must be converted into the text that we received from the Chamber of Deputies. [[Applause from the PdL and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u72	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u73	Mr President, the Government is giving up its reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u74	The Presidency, in accordance with what has already been established by the Commissions gathered in the referent, declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendment 2-b.0.1 concerning the payment of the debts of the Provinces, as alien to the subject of the discussion. In accordance with Rule 100 (8) of the Rules of Procedure, it also states that amendment 1,56, as it is not amending. I call on the Senator Secretary to read the opinions expressed by the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u75	The first standing Commission, which has examined the draft law in title and the amendments thereto, shall, as far as its competence is concerned, deliver a non-obstacle opinion. - with regard to Article 2a, it is noted that the resources used to cover, from the Fund for environmental protection requirements, are of a capital nature and, however, are deducted for an intervention which, although limited (90,000 euros for each of the years 2013-2014), is of a current nature; - with regard to Article 2-b, which derogates from the internal stability pact for the Region of Puglia, it is noted that the Fund for the compensation of financial effects not provided for under existing legislation following the actualisation of the multiannual contributions, which is used to cover them, should be exclusively intended to offset the negative effects, in cash terms, resulting from specific contributions of constant fixed amount, with burdens on the State, granted by virtue of legislative authorisations, and not for other compensations, such as that provided by the article under consideration; - with regard to Article 2c (3) it is noted that, although the provision is accompanied by a clause on financial neutrality, the requirement of the financial regulation, which is laid down by the Financial Regulation, stipulates that, with regard to the provisions of the financial provisions of the Convention, which are laid down by the Financial Regulation, lays down in the Financial Regulation, lays down in the Financial Regulation, lays with regard to the Financial Regulation, The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the amendments relating to the draft law sent by the Assembly, gives an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution on proposals 1.1, 1.3, 1.204, 1.32, 1.37, 1.48, 1.49, 1.55, 1.77, 1.82, 1.0.1 (text 2), 1.0.2, 2.5, 2.0.1, 2-a.1, 2-b.1, 2-b.0.1, 1.217 and 1.218. The opinion is simply contrary to Amendments Nos 1.31 and 1,211. The opinion is without prejudice to all remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u76	We now come to the agenda, some of which have already been discussed in the general debate, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u77	Mr President, as far as Amendment 2-b.0.1 is concerned, I would ask that it be turned into an agenda for which I can hand over the text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni, deliver the text so that you have it to the rapporteur and the representative of the government. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will present the agendas of the G100 and G103. The measure deals with the site of national strategic interest of Taranto, but in Italy there are other 56 SIN worthy of as much consideration. With our agenda G100 we ask the Government to commit itself to defining, together with the Regions, a national plan for the Bonifice of the SINs containing certain financial commitments and simplification procedures to start the activity of environmental restoration. On the other hand, as regards the G103 agenda, given that the decree-law that we are about to convert does not solve at all the pressing problem of the disposal of hazardous and non-dangerous waste, although inside the factory in Taranto there are two landfills that have had the green light of the environmental impact assessment, we ask (despite the fact that we have been denied the amendment) to commit the Government to take all the initiatives to allow these two landfills as soon as possible. I would point out to the Assembly that the disposal of waste in industrial activity and reclamation materials involves expenditure estimated by the subcommissor of EUR 300 million. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u78	Mr President, I would like to make a quick presentation of the G101 agenda, which I have already mentioned in general debate, which tends to commit the Government to stimulating the conduct of epidemiological studies based on individual data that allow significant progress to be made in the search for links between cause and effect in the link between diseases and environmental risks.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u79	The remaining agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u80	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u81	Mr President, I am in favour of the G100 agenda and, with rewordings to be presented by the representative of the Government, I am in favour of the G101, G102, G200 and G104 agendas. The opinion was opposed to the G103 and G105 agendas and was in favour of the G106 and G107 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u82	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in favour of the G100 agenda. As regards the G101 agenda, a rewording of the device is proposed in order to include, after the word "a" the words: "to assess the appropriateness of "a". On the G102 agenda, the opinion is in favour if it is reworded by replacing the words "to adopt" with the following: "to consider whether to promote". The opinion on the G200 agenda is in favour if reworded by replacing the words "taking legislative initiatives" with the following: I am opposed to the G103 agenda, while on the G104 agenda the opinion is in favour of replacing the word "defining" with the following in the operative part: "considering the desirability of defining," in conjunction with the relevant region." The opinion was opposed to the G105 agenda and was in favour of the G106 and G107 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u83	Having been accepted by the Government, the G100 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Dalla Zuanna, do you accept the rewording of the G101 agenda proposed by the government? WRITER IN ZUANNA (SPI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Arrigoni, do you accept the rewording of the G102 agenda proposed by the government? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Dirindin, do you accept the rewording of the G200 agenda proposed by the government? DIRINDIN (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G200 agenda (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u84	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G103 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u87	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I cannot understand why the rapporteur and the Government have given an opinion against the G103 agenda. Furthermore, landfilling is one of the areas to be delegated to the Government on the agenda of the majority approved by the Joint Commissions. I therefore ask that this agenda, which has been voted against, be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u90	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, we are voting against the G103 agenda. The reason is that this paves the way for the landfilling of unestablished materials, in the sense that for the Commissioner's own statement there is no product classification of these products. So, we risk dumping things that are self-declared to be dangerous or non-dangerous, and that cannot be absolutely acceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u93	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, my explanation of vote on the G103 agenda also allows me to put the question that has been introduced and accepted on the agenda of the majority that has passed through the Commission. We are absolutely opposed to these agendas, and we are very clear on the reasons for them (I see that President Cucchetti is also present, so he understands that once again). The third part of the AIA is already in progress, and so we believe that the whole issue of landfills, as well as water, should be included in the AIA's own procedures, and not by a separate decree or by some kind of sanatoria. The issue is very sensitive: we must avoid - this will also apply to other issues - that the Commission for environmental purposes can produce situations that once again lead us to be subject to European infringement procedures. Therefore, from this point of view, I call on everyone, and also the Government, who has not replied, to take these assessments into great consideration, because introducing, as provided for in the agenda of the majority, the issue of landfills in the first decree that passes will once again expose our country, for that situation, to an infringement procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u95	A member of your Group has already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u96	Mr Lezzi (M5S). I would just like to make a little note, if I may, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u97	I am sorry, but your quota time has already expired, so we can only accept explanations of vote. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]] He'll intervene on the next one.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u100	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u101	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the G103 agenda presented by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. A rewording of the G104 agenda has been proposed. Senator Nugnes, are you welcome? NUGNES (M5S). Yes, because it is indeed a regional competence. [[Comments.]] Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G104 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G105 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u104	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, we are opposed to this agenda, basically because we do not believe that the regionalisation of waste disposal, at least as far as non-characterised waste is concerned, is correct, for the same reasons as I mentioned earlier. The best technologies, in fact, imply that all the national territory must be involved in such a serious situation as the one that characterizes the largest steel plant in Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u107	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would first like to make one point: in none of the newspapers I have read today I have found a line on the work that this House is doing on the issue of Ilva: this means that the media's interest in Ilva is absolutely zero! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] That should make us think. As for the agenda G105, we commit the Government to take appropriate steps to ensure that hazardous and non-dangerous waste from the reclamations of the SIN of Taranto is disposed of within the same regional territory. In this way it is possible to put all the bodies that are working on this issue in a position to work to use the famous zero kilometre also for the disposal of these wastes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u110	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u111	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot on the agenda of the G105, presented by Senator Council and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT . Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G106 and G107 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u112	Mr President, I would like to set out Amendment No 1.1, on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have expressed a contrary opinion. We believe that, precisely in accordance with Article 41 of the Constitution, it should not be the entire Ilva company to be the commissioner, but exclusively the Taranto plant, since the three plants allocated to the North, those of Genoa, Novi Ligure and Racconigi, have no problems of non-compliance with the AIA. I would also like to explain Amendment No 1.19 because we believe that there can actually be a conflict of interest because we have gone to appoint as the special commissioner of Ilva a person who, even if for a short period, has held the position of CEO of Ilva and therefore is certainly responsible for the failure to comply with the requirements of the AIA which then determined the intervention of the judiciary. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u113	I will present a number of amendments relating essentially to the AIA and the health impact assessment. Amendment 1.5 calls for the word'reiterated' to be deleted, which concerns the case where the possibility of the Commissariat arises; this provision concerns Ilva, but also all other undertakings and establishments which might be in the same situation. We cannot allow non-compliance with environmental requirements to be continued and repeated: I believe that, given what happened at Ilva, it is absolutely necessary to provide for simple non-compliance. On the question of the AIA, I repeat a very clear concept having tabled a number of amendments to Article 1 which essentially always concern the same aspect: one cannot derogate from or loosen the requirements of the AIA; one can only insert stricter requirements, broaden their scope, perhaps apply the new European directive with regard to the AIA, but it must be absolutely clear - because the danger of this happening - that the instrument of the Commission cannot be used to derogate from the AIA itself. The other issue, addressed in amendment 1.69, is the assessment of health damage (an advance that amendment 1.88 on incompatibility will be explained by Senator Stephen). We have also presented an agenda on this subject in Article 1 in which we reaffirm this fundamental concept: it is clear that as regards the assessment of health damage the report of health damage must legitimise the region competent to request immediately the review of the AIA itself; this precisely to give a strong cogency to this new instrument, which must not be avoided, but instead used in full.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u114	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 1.7. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 provides that in order to commission a company, non-compliance with environmental requirements must be repeated. With this amendment we are calling for the word'reiterated' to be deleted, because an environmental disaster can be enormous and there is no need for it to be repeated. Amendment 1.59 calls for the drawing up of the industrial plan referred to in paragraph 6 of Article 1 to take into account the possible reduction of the production capacity of the structure on the basis of the requirements of the plan of measures and environmental protection activities. It is normal for production to be reduced on the basis of what may be restrictive measures. I do not think there are any other amendments to be tabled. Mr President, in Taranto, in order to make their children live, their mouths must be shut and their noses closed. We still die today, so I pray everyone to pay the right attention, I really ask you with courtesy. I would ask the Government and the rapporteurs to consider these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u115	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments 1.9, 1.10 and others. Amendments 1.9 and 1.10 aim to involve respectively the Minister of Health and the relevant parliamentary committees in the choice of the Commissioner and provide that the opinion of the Commissions is also binding. Amendment 1.11 reiterates that the Minister of Health is always present in the decisions. Amendment 1,202 instead refers to the criteria of professionalism and compatibility or, better said, incompatibility and therefore provides that the appointments of the Extraordinary Commissioner and the Sub-Commissioner are carried out in the presence of the requirements of good repute and professionalism and that, if they fail, the appointments are cancelled. Subsequently, with amendment 1.27, we ask to delete paragraph 1-b, because this derogation from Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006 does not create a level of equity with other situations on Italian territory. Amendment 1.70 refers to the AIA. We would like the health damage assessment to change the requirements of the AIA also in progress. The annual health damage assessment report should be a condition for modification of the AIA. Furthermore, with Amendment No 1.72 we call for the deletion of paragraph 9 of Article 1, where the Commissioner and the sub-Commissioner are deprived of their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u116	Mr President, Amendment 1.14 is very simple to explain: practically anyone who plays the role of Commissioner must certainly be a third person, so we have drawn up a list of requirements for this person to be actually third. If a former CEO of a company is appointed, in fact, it is also normal for suspicion to arise about this person's behaviour. I therefore do not think that the designated person is the only one in the world who can play this role. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u117	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1,204. We believe that the issue of steel production is important for Italy and we stress that it is important to open a discussion table within the Presidency of the Council, in agreement with the Ministers concerned, in order to establish a national strategy that can compete with the wider European strategy, but above all worldwide. So it is an attempt to join forces to bring national steel strategy to the discussion table.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u118	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments Nos 1.32 and 1.33, which relate to the phase of the Commission. In paragraph 2 of Article 1 it is said that the functionality of the commissioning is carried out in the preservation of business continuity. We would like to add the words: 'as well as safeguarding environmental protection requirements and respect for appropriate health protection parameters', which is the issue we are most interested in. Very often it is said: Tarantoes die, but otherwise they would die of hunger, and it is quite uncivilized, I would say. Furthermore, the Commissioner is free from all responsibilities. On the other hand, with Amendment 1.33, we say that all the responsibilities associated with the implementation of the AIA, environmental subsidies and the prevention of health damage are attributable, precisely, to the Commissioner. Otherwise, we don't see the reason for it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u119	Mr President, Amendment 1,214 seeks to delete the part of paragraph 7 of Article 1 which provides that the health damage assessment reports required by Article 1-a of Decree-Law No 207 of 3 December 2012 must comply with the methodological criteria set out in the Decree-Law currently under discussion. The health damage assessment report cannot unilaterally change the requirements of the integrated environmental authorisation but legitimates the Region to request its review. However, it is clear that if the above paragraph 7 of Article 1 were adopted in its current wording, as dismissed by the Chamber of Deputies, the sense of health damage assessment would be completely eliminated, i.e. the only instrument capable of measuring the health consequences of Ilva di Taranto and indicating, on the basis of the results obtained, any further requirements to protect the environment and health. I therefore believe that the amendment that I have presented is a genuine act which this House owes to defending the lives of the citizens of Taranto and their land.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u120	Mr President, I come back to Amendment No 1,200 which, being rather long, will require a few more seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u121	Unfortunately, time is contingent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u122	MARTELLI (M5S). As has already been said, there is a vulnus, in the sense that the Commissioner and the subcommissary are operating under a derogation from ordinary legislation. With Amendment 1,200, we ask that we should be able to take the necessary steps only in the presence of a seizure already carried out by the judicial authority with the consequent appointment of the college of custodians. In this way there is the possibility of having a third opinion which can act as a counterweight to the Commissioner, who is a kind of Plenipotentiary. With Amendment 1,203 we are asking that the Commission should take place only when the verification of the non-compliance of the AIA has been carried out by ISPRA with the support - we specifically say - of the regional and provincial agencies for the protection of the environment and of the college of custodians. That is, we want the judicial guardians to come into play at the stage when the AIA must be implemented, otherwise it remains always a disproportion between one power and another. Do I continue to explain the other amendments? That's a lot of... presidents. You asked to speak in order to explain the agenda. I had you explain the amendments, but time has already expired. MARTELLI (M5S). Okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u123	Amendment 1,209 aims to ensure the right to transparency because we believe that, through the publication of data on the website of the Municipality, both ownership and, more importantly, citizens living in the area of the plant concerned can have real-time information on the state of the health situation and, above all, on the management of the entire plant. The aim is to guarantee the right to health and the right to know who lives these dramatic situations.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u124	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion. MORONESE (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Time's running out. We have already granted far more than we have laid down. We have listened to all possible illustrations, but there are still explanations of vote that will allow you to explain your views. Please, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u125	Mr President, if you allow me, I would like to make a joint opinion: I would ask you to withdraw all the amendments tabled in Article 1, otherwise my opinion is against it. I am therefore opposed to the agenda G1.100, G1.102 and G1.104 and to the agenda G1.101, G1.103 and G1.105 (which will be reworded by the Government representative). I also object to the agendas G1.106, G1.107, G1.108, G1.109, G1.110, G1.111 and G1.112.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u126	The Government calls for the withdrawal of amendments to Article 1, otherwise the opinion is opposed. With regard to agendas, the Government gives an opinion against agendas G1.100, G1.102 and G1.104 and in favour of agendas G1.101 and G1.103. The opinion is in favour of the agenda G1.105, where, in the device, after the words "complete" as soon as possible, the following are deleted: " and in any case within 90 days of the date of conversion of Decree-Law No 61 of 2013." The opinion was also opposed to the agenda for agendas G1.106, G1.107, G1.108, G1.109, G1.110, G1.111 and G1.112.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u127	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u130	CARRARO (PdL). Mr President, I call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means on all the amendments and agendas referred to in Rule 1. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u131	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Carraro, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,200 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 1.1 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator Council and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 1.3 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote by electronic ballot on Amendment 1.4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on Amendment 1.5. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.7. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.8. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.8 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.9. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 941
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u134	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, as stated, we are voting on all the amendments with the electronic system, and it seems to me that this is correct. However, we are asking, if possible, to make an explanation of vote on each amendment. Pursuant to Rule 109 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, each Senator may, before each vote, ask for an explanation of vote. We would like to do this, if possible, otherwise in addition to the citizens of Taranto the citizens of the 5 Star Movement will also be silenced here, or you will try to silence them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u137	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, paragraph 1 of Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure provides for this when the vote is taken by show of hands; because in this case we are voting with the nominal system, that is not the case. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u140	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I also apologise to my colleagues if I take the floor for a few minutes but, in accordance with all the articles you want, someone in the majority cannot stand up and ask for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, preventing us from voting by show of hands and declaring our vote. This is a way to silence minorities! [[Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] We, Mr President, ask that we be able to declare our vote because this is not even foreseen in the previous 1991 mentioned by you. We therefore call for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u141	We got it, thank you. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,201. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,201, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.10. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 941. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u144	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to Amendment 1.11, because I think it is appropriate...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u145	Senator Puglia, we have already said that, as far as signatures are concerned, you can address the Secretary Senators who are in the Chamber. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 941
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u147	About what? SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Disorder of business, Senator Santangelo. You have the right to do so. SANTANGELO (M5S). I apologise to my fellow senators if we are missing a few minutes, however, while quoting Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of this House, paragraph 2 reads: With the exception of cases where the Rules of Procedure require the exclusion or limitation of the discussion, a Senator for each Parliamentary Group shall have the right, before each vote, to make an explanation of vote on behalf of the Members' Group, for no more than ten minutes; the President, having appreciated the circumstances, may bring this deadline to fifteen minutes. We are not asking for this; we are asking, Mr President, that this provision be applied: The same option is granted to the Senators who wish to disassociate themselves from the positions taken by their Group, provided that their number is less than half that of the members of the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u148	Thank you for reading. Since the Presidency has already addressed this issue this morning... SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, it has not been resolved. It's a way to take our word off. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...the Presidency maintains the same position, in the sense that it recalls the words preceding the words mentioned above, namely: This is the exception for cases where the Regulation requires exclusion or limitation, given that the quota time has already expired. This position has already been addressed this morning. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,202. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,202 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 941
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u151	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I would like to ask you for clarification. In terms of regulations, without prejudice to the possibility of limitation, every senator has the possibility to make an intervention in dissent with respect to his Group. [[Comments from the PdL Group]] Wait, you don't know what I'm going to say. My question is as follows: how can a senator make a dissenting speech if the Group has not been able to make an explanation of vote? I don't know what we should disagree about. That is the clarification I would ask you to give. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u152	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.13. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to point out that the first part of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators, has been voted by electronic ballot at the same time, up to the words 'extraordinary Commissioner'. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. The remaining part of Amendment 1.13 and Amendment 1.14 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.15. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.19. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator Council and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.20. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,203. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,203 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 941
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u155	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, it seems to me that Mr Martelli's notation, which is absolutely logical and impeccable, has not yet been answered. Therefore, I wanted to raise the matter because, in our view, we could also read the Rules of Procedure in that way by giving a voice to dissent, since it is possible to understand what the Group's will is. But if it is not possible to express this will, then even dissent can not be expressed. It seems to me that this is logical, but perhaps the logic here is not there. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u156	I think that those who disagree should know what the Group's position is. If not, it is an internal problem of the Group. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups. Comments from the M5S Group Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot]] I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.22. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Council and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.23. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 941
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u159	CAMPANELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you whether it is possible to slow down voting, because I have not been able to vote twice in a row. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u160	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.24. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 941
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u163	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, before we begin the voting procedure, I would ask you to look this way, so that we can ask to speak in an explanation of vote without shouting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The whole Bureau is watching you, ready to report any requests. BULGARRELLI (M5S). We ask you to look at us and give us the floor when we ask for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u164	I'm sorry, but I'll direct my eyes. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.25. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 1,204 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,27, which is identical to Amendment 1.28. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,27, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators, identical to amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,205. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,205 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 941
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u167	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that, in the last two votes, there are two votes in the seats of Senator Aracri and his fellow Member, while the other Senator is out. I therefore request that the penultimate bench and also the vote be checked immediately.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u168	I beg the secretary senators to check it out. We shall now proceed to the vote. ( [[Comments and protests from the PdL Group.]] [[Senator Santangelo's lively comments.]] I would like to try to avoid slowing down the work for these reasons, particularly by calling for the correctness of the behaviour by all those who are in their posts and diligently proceed to the vote in their post, avoiding being out of place at the time of the vote or to instruct someone to vote in their place. I would ask colleagues to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u171	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, since the Senators of the 5 Star Movement have also been accused of excessive verbal intemperance and so on, it seems to me perhaps as much, if not more serious, as is the case with repeated behaviours that violate the spirit of the norm. We therefore ask you to enforce the Rules of Procedure, especially in these cases, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure itself, in the face of serious behaviour. Here we must educate democracy and respect for the rules and we must not derogate first. It is true that we are talking about everything here, especially respect for the Constitution, but we should not do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u172	We agree, Senator Morra. You know that I am on the same line even for a certain past that I absolutely cannot forget. So, from this point of view, you can rest assured. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,206.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u173	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u175	Orellana (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out my vote. This amendment is particularly important because it concerns the appointment of the Commissioner. I do not know whether my vote is in disagreement or not by my group, because I do not know what it will do. However, I will vote in favour of the amendment. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u176	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,206, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.29. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.30. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.30 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 941 GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I could not vote!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u177	I am sorry, Senator Giarrusso, the reflexes must be ready in this House. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.31. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 1.32 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,207. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,207 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.33. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to amendment 1,37, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Arrigoni, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-bis Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,37, tabled by Senator Council and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,208. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,208 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.209. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,209 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,210. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.210, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,211. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,211 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.41.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u180	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, we actually need to have the quickest reflexes, but you should have the quickest look. [[Comments from the PdL Group.]] I have been wanting to speak in an explanation of vote for a long time.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u181	I think I gave her the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u182	BLUNDO (M5S). No, Mr. President, he didn't give it to me. You have taken nine more votes and I have stood up, without you being able to give me the floor at all. I am now voting in favour of Amendment 1.41. Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u183	I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,41, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.46. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,46, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.47. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.47 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,212. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,212 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 1.48 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,213. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,213 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 1.49 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.50. I declare the vote open. [[Senator Bulgarelli's comments.]] Amendment 1,49, as I said, is impervious. Has anyone asked to vote on it? In the meantime, we are voting on Amendment No 1.50, on which the vote has been declared open.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u186	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, may I ask for the vote on Amendment No 1.49?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u187	We are voting on Amendment 1.50. I declared the vote open. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.50, tabled by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 941
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u190	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we thought that amendment 1.49 was put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're voting on it now. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). No, Mr President: we voted in favour of Amendment No 1,49, not Amendment No 1,50. Therefore, either we vote on Amendment No 1.49 or we repeat the vote on Amendment No 1.50. Excuse me, but there are different evaluations. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u191	Since there has been this misunderstanding, I shall cancel the vote on Amendment No 1.50. We therefore move on to Amendment No 1.49, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Lezzi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.49 tabled by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.50.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u194	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I do not speak for a cloaking technique, but because the reason for Amendment No 1.49 is that no one should be left behind. In fact, he was asking not to charge the ticket to people who have suffered...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u195	You have already had the opportunity to explain the proposal; the amendment has already been voted on. We take note of what you say. We shall then take back Amendment No 1.50, which had previously been cancelled. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.50, tabled by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.51. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.51, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.54. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.54, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. Let us move on to amendment 1,55, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We would like to ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We kindly grant it. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.55, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. Amendment 1.56 is inadmissible, as it is not modifiable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.57. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,57, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.58. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,58, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.59. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,59, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.60. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.60 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.61. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.61, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.62. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.62, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.63. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.63, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,214. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,214 tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.65. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,65, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 941
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u198	VACCIANO (M5S). Mr President, I would hope that the Government's favourable or contrary opinion would be expressed before the vote and not after, because otherwise it will become useless and we do not understand it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u199	His wish will be satisfied. You were obviously not careful: all opinions are against or there is an invitation to withdraw. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.66. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.66, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.67. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.67 tabled by Senator Petrocelli and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.68. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.68 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.69. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,69, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 941
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u200	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u202	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to remind you, on the issue of some senators voting for others, that there is neither a proxy vote nor a mandate bond in our system. So I believe that inertia and inactivity in the face of such a serious fact, which irreparably alters... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Will you let me finish, please?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u203	This is not about an explanation of vote. I'm sorry, I'm taking your word off. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.70. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.70 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,215. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,215 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.72. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.72, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.73. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.73, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,216. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1,216, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 1.77 is impervious.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u206	SANTANGELO (M5S). Excuse me, Mr President, we are asking that Amendment No 1.77 be put to the vote. I understand your reflexes are different from mine, but it's a generation issue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is My reflexes still work fine. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). They could be better. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I looked specifically at her and there was no no sign of her. SANTANGELO (M5S). We do not understand, Mr President, it is the light that... There's a penumbra zone.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u207	No, no, she's a little late. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment No 1.77 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.78. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of Amendment 1.78 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.79. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.79 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We move on to amendment 1.82, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. [[Senator Santangelo points out that he wants to intervene]] Please, Senator Santangelo, do you see how the reflexes continue to exist? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, I was going to congratulate you, and then the shadow stopped me. We would like to ask for the vote on Amendment No 1.82. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.82, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 1.217 is impervious. [[Senator Blondo points out that she wants to intervene.]] I'm sorry, time has passed. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] No, the reflexes must have them all ready. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.83. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.83, tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 941
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u210	SANTANGELO (M5S). I apologise, Mr President, but you will understand well that the citizens are watching us right now and not being a reflection contest between you and the 5 Star Movement... PRESIDENT. Absolutely. SANTANGELO (M5S). ...I ask you kindly, abusing a moment of your kindness, to have Amendment 1,217 voted at this time - if possible - because it is very important. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She doesn't abuse. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'll ask you if that's possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u211	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,217, which seems to be an important amendment. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,217 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.84. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.84 tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.85. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.85 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.87. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.87 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No 941
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u212	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u214	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote on Amendment 1,218. I say this before, so as not to be seen.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u215	All right. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.88. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1.88 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,218, on which Senator Crimi asked to speak in an explanation of vote. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u216	Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group on this amendment which provides for an exemption from health tickets for all those people living near pollution-related areas. I would like to stress that this is the last amendment to Article 1 of the decree and that those put to the vote have all been rejected. No problem. We take note of this decision. However, during the examination of this last amendment, I refer to what Senator Schifani said at the opening of the sitting - I am sorry it is not in the Chamber - which praised the goodness of having succeeded, when examining the previous decree-law, to vote on the measure without the government being forced to ask the question of trust. This is a trust in fact and not declared by the Government, and with this last amendment we will have proof of it (we are not voting on it yet). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If we continue along this path again, we will also be able to count this among the draft laws that have been adopted with confidence. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u217	I imagine you are asking for the vote on Amendment 1,218, because no one has asked me yet.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u218	CRIMI (M5S). We are asking for the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u219	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator Crimi, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by simultaneous ballot (Art. 102-a Reg.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of amendment 1,218 tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on draft law No 941 PRESIDENT. Given the time, and since there are numerous requests for intervention at the end of the sitting that I wish to respect, I shall refer the continuation of the debate on the draft law to another sitting. (In the course of the sitting, the following communications were received from the Presidency: Senator Dirindin on Amendment 1.7 wanted to vote against; Senator Marin on Amendments 1.5 and 1,203 wanted to vote against; Senator Castaldi on Amendments 1,203 and 1,23 would have wanted to vote in favour; Senator Esposito Giuseppe on Amendment 1,30 would have wanted to vote against; Senator Puglia on Amendment 1,30 would have wanted to vote against and on Amendments 1,50 and 1,84 would have wanted to vote in favour; Senator Blundo on Amendment 1,69 would have wanted to vote in favour).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u222	MATTESINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister of Health to answer the urgent question 2-00047 concerning the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals and the related obligations that, of course, Regions and Government must carry out in order to comply with the law and achieve this result which we absolutely must achieve. I remember that in the approved decree it is expected that the Regions should submit by May 15 of this year the related programs in implementation of the law for the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals. To date, it appears that only some regions have done so and that even those that have fulfilled what is expected have not taken into account the contents provided by the legislation itself, i.e. they have not respected those indications that provide for the construction of small social and health residences included in the social contexts and also the related rehabilitation programs. Moreover, it seems that the strengthening of the mental health services of the territories is not respected and that the proposals made must exclude the reproduction of manicomial solutions, perhaps more elegant in their structuring, but that in fact would replicate the handles. Finally, I would remind you that the law also provides for substitute powers of the Government with the appointment of specific commissioners where it is not implemented. I therefore urge the answer to the questioning, because we cannot and must not allow the law not to be applied. We cannot go back to a new postponement once again, as has been done this year. Although I am aware of the difficulties of the territories, I believe that the Ministry must commit itself and inform Parliament, because, Mr President, applying the law and finally saying that it is enough for the OPGs to exist, I believe it is a matter of civilization, respect, but also, basically, for this Parliament and this Government, a response of efficiency and effectiveness of the institutions. I therefore ask for an answer, because the government's silence and delay create some concern. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u225	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor briefly to bring to the attention of this House and the Government the environmental disaster that is taking place in the area between the streets Laurentina and Castel di Leva, to the detriment of the medieval monumental complex of Tor Chiesaccia, dating back to the 10th century A.D. and subject to protection pursuant to Legislative Decree No 42 of 22 January 2004. Despite being tied to the inedibilability from the landscape plan of the Lazio Region n. 15/3 the area around the ruins of Tor Chiesaccia is the subject of countless violations and urban differences due to some building concessions, cheerfully assigned to the business group Caltagirone. Permits that have quietly allowed the construction of buildings much higher, up to 5 more floors, than the requirements contained in the regional environmental impact assessment, where the area is destined for greenery and public services. These buildings, in addition to being erected on the walls of the fortified field and a necropolis, shamelessly derogate from the prohibition to build or alter the land within 100 meters from the Tower, as established in a decree of the Regional Directorate of the Superintendence for the architectural and landscape goods, which also prohibits to include with any construction the profile and perception of the Tower, foreclosure inevitable if two seven-storey palaces were built. Added to this are the proliferation of arson fires aimed at damaging the monuments and the collapse, which occurred last January, of a part of the medieval church (here we often talk about protecting and not protecting) due to the vibrations produced by excavators and trucks operating on the site. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. BLUNDO (M5S). Yes, Mr President, I shall conclude. I therefore call for a decisive intervention by the Government and the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities in this House to suspend all concessions granted by the Municipality of Rome, since the area - as we read in a report of the same Ministry a few years ago - is distinguished by the high quality of landscape, the breadth of the panoramic paintings, the stratified articulation of the historical settlement system and the remarkable diffusion of archaeological and architectural goods. It is urgent to verify why the investigation carried out by the area manager who requested the suspension of any urban work on the area has been mysteriously lost and the official transferred to another post. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u228	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, I will disappoint my colleague Scibona but, as these are days of great work, I would like to thank you personally for the conduct of this House today. It is his job and his job, but sometimes it must be recognized that in difficult situations there is a Presidency that leads us to achieve the result. Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u229	Thank you, but all I did was what I had to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u230	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u232	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I only speak to make a point of order. Since next Friday, on 2 August, the anniversary of the Bologna massacre falls, we allowed ourselves to make this signal to remove the Presidency Council from the embarrassment in which it was already on 27 June, for the commemoration of the massacre in Ustica. We would then like to help him remember to ask to observe a minute's silence in memory of these victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u233	We thank you for the solicitation, but it was already planned.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u234	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u235	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u236	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking in a personal capacity with regard to this morning, when I felt that I had to leave the Chamber. The problem is the application and interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and, if necessary, also what President Zanda had asked for with regard to the possibility of referring to the Board for the Rules of Procedure. I believe that the Rules of Procedure, being a paraconstitutional legislative instrument, clearly cannot be modified by the junta for the Rules of Procedure, which can certainly interpret the rules, but through their interpretation it cannot modify them, otherwise this would be a surreptitious way of amending the Rules of Procedure. I refer to what I referred to this morning, namely Rule 92 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, when I was removed. I would remind you that Article 92 (1) provides that: Points of order, agenda or priority for a debate or vote shall take precedence over the main issue and shall suspend the debate. This means that we are no longer in the debate: the debate is temporarily suspended and with it also the possibility, recognized by Rule 90 (2) of the President, of being able to take the floor while we are debating the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I meant. I felt totally unheard in this House where minorities must also be heard. We're a minority. We chose to stay here just to argue. But the debate exists if the other one wants to listen. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u237	As you can see, he had a chance to be heard.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u238	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u239	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u240	ORRU' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like other colleagues before me, I have spoken on the subject of the revision of judicial geography, on which I presented an interview with Castelvetrano on 20 June 2013. As we know, the Commission has approved a legal text which differs for one year from the application of the reform. I would like to point out that the text, as you know, Mr President, has been adopted unanimously. This text is expected in the House by the vast majority of the senators. I would ask you in this brief speech to set in motion all the procedures necessary for the timetable as soon as possible for this draft law, which appears to be urgent, given that the reform will enter into force on 13 September. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u241	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u242	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u243	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I have already made a speech on this issue at yesterday's afternoon sitting. I renew your invitation to find a quick solution. [[The President's notes.]] Mr President, I insist that this situation prevents me from following Parliament's work quietly, since, as you know, passive smoking is a serious problem. As you well know, in the smoking rooms, as is also indicated in the sign displayed inside the hall, there is an obligation to keep the window closed. The window of the smoking room is, on the other hand, constantly open, which means that either there is no suction system, or it is not sufficiently dimensioned, or it is temporarily broken. I would ask you to find a definitive solution, but in the meantime to find a temporary solution that will prevent smoking from spreading into the corridors and, when there are open doors, enter this House as well. I would ask you to do so as early as tomorrow morning. It is strange that the laws are not respected inside this palace. I really ask you, with courtesy, to resolve the problem already in the morning of tomorrow. If you can then simply keep the windows closed for proper operation of the suction system would be fine. I would ask you, however, at least that the windows, throughout the course of the work of this House, be really closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u244	Senator Commissioner De Poli has already addressed this issue yesterday and I think he is looking for solutions. We will find a solution as quickly as possible. I don't want to suggest anything, but we also have the possibility to use the inner courtyard to smoke.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u245	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u246	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u247	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I would like to ask you to restore the previous destination of the Maccari Room. As you know, the hall was used by senators to decorate the Senate and the senators themselves. Lately, although noble, its intended use has been changed and has been made available for interviews. I believe that the previous use should be restored precisely because the Senate has associations, citizens, committees that meet with individual senators or groups of senators: it is not possible to see - as is happening in recent weeks - these people along the corridors or sitting in the Garibaldi Room or in the Mazzini Room, of course almost one over the other, one over the other. It's not good to see. I believe that these associations, these committees deserve to be received by my fellow senators in a room that respects the decor of Palazzo Madama and is adapted to the use it is used for, that is, to welcome and listen to the requests of our citizens. I invite you, therefore, to restore the Sala Maccari (which is the one near the buvette) to the previous use.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u248	Senator Barani, if a different destination was given, apparently at the time someone felt that there were requirements for this. Now it is a question of finding the right balance between the needs of all in staying in this beautiful Palace, but sometimes it is not perfectly adapted to the needs of all. On the other hand, the Press Office also has its own needs and it is right that, as in the Chamber of Deputies, there is also a place for interviews in the Senate. I give the floor to Senator Commissioner Malan, who perhaps can illustrate how much we are trying to find a balanced and reasonable solution for everyone's needs.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Given the time, I will speak very quickly about the issues raised by Senator Ciampolillo and, finally, by my colleague Barani. As regards the problem of smoking, as you yourself mentioned, Senator Commissioner De Poli has already ensured his commitment to finding a solution. I, too, repeat this commitment. It is clear, however, that we must find a solution in full compliance with the law; if there are requirements - as they exist - for smoking rooms, of course these must be applied more rightly here, in the Senate, in order to ensure the needs of all, those who are annoyed by smoking and those who want to practice this activity. As far as the Maccari Room is concerned, as a College of Senators, we are working to find the best solution. To make a comparison, in the Chamber of Deputies there is a very large area that has the use used before the Maccari Room; I therefore believe that here, too, in the Senate, you must have such a situation to receive people or to allow senators who do not have the office at Palazzo Madama to access a computer. I therefore believe that a solution must be found, in which - as you have pointed out, Mr President - all the needs must be met.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u250	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u251	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u252	Mr Guerrieri Paleopti (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on a personal note because I have been reported - then I read it in the shorthand report of today's sitting - that Senator Lezzi of the 5 Star Movement Group, in her speech this afternoon, in addition to insulting the Democratic Party and almost the entire Assembly, has made my name by giving me statements on the complex and dramatic story of the Ilva di Taranto that I have never uttered and without any basis. I consider it very serious, above all, that Senator Lezzi, taking advantage of my absence due to the fact that I was engaged in the work of the Commission in preparing for the conversion of a decree-law, has permitted statements in freedom, without foundation, which I consider to be very serious. I would, therefore, like to remain in the record, in addition to my reproach for this behavior, also the fact that these sentences are destitute of any relationship with what I think and especially what I have written about such a dramatic and important story, which concerns the whole of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u253	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-85.ana.u254	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday, August 1, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.51 a.m.
