ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pizzetti, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 12 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). We ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.36 a.m. and resumed at 9.57 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u6	Let's resume our work. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:57 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1149. The rapporteur, Senator Zanoni, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the measure contains urgent financial measures in favour of regions and local authorities and interventions located in the territory. Article 1 concerns urgent financial measures. Paragraph 1 contains rules to facilitate testing of the harmonisation of accounting systems. Paragraphs 2 to 4 provide for a return plan with regard to the transport system in Campania. The provisions are aimed at making the rules on the implementation of the rail regional transport debt shelf in Campania more stringent in order to ensure the viability of the plan of return in the course of approval. Paragraph 5 sets out provisions to regulate the financial relations between Roma Capitale and the management of the commissioner. They have been binding rules, which have also seen a lot of work in relation to the amendments tabled. Paragraph 6 provides for a rule on the additional municipal IRPEF in the Municipality of Rome to allow a derogation from national legislation. Paragraph 7 concerns the Expo 2015 of Milan and determines financial effects for 25 million euros in 2013 in terms of net balance to be financed. Paragraph 8 concerns the recruitment of staff of companies and public bodies, always relative to Expo 2015. Paragraphs 9 and 10 concern the resources for the "Patto per Roma" (Patto per Roma), the separate collection, the landslide of Assisi and the commissioners for the hydrogeological failure. Paragraph 11 concerns the amounts paid for the compensation of environmental damage in favour of the administration of the State and for compensation for environmental damage intended for the reclamation and repair of environmental damage in the contaminated site of national interest of Crotone. The paragraphs 12 to 14 concern the Municipality of Alexandria. Paragraph 12 does not give rise to any financial effects, since it is noted exclusively for the purposes of the procedure of presentation and approval of the budgetary hypothesis which has been permanently balanced by the municipalities which have been damaged and which have certain characteristics. Paragraph 15 concerns the impignability of the LEA resources of the National Health Service. Paragraphs 16 and 17 concern the monitoring of public administrations' debts. This is a subject that we have now dealt with, with Decree-Law No. 35, 8 April 2013, and at various times of our parliamentary process. Also in this measure there are three paragraphs concerning debt monitoring. Paragraph 18 concerns auditors of companies participating in local authorities. On this point there was perhaps the greatest number of interventions in terms of amendments. Paragraph 19 concerns the extension of the system of access to the register of local auditors, and here too there have been significant changes with the amendments. Paragraph 20 concerns the financial provisions relating to provinces. And we come to Article 2, which provides for economic interventions and measures to support the territory. Paragraphs 1 and 2 provide for compensation for the undertakings of the TAV. The provision authorizes an expenditure of 2 million euros for the year 2013 and 5 million euros in 2014 in order to grant compensation to companies engaged in the construction of infrastructure and strategic settlements, referred to in Law No 443 of 2001, which have suffered acts of damage, not manslaughter, of their own equipment aimed at hindering or slowing down the execution of the same works. Paragraph 3 concerns ANAS. The provision authorises the Ministry of Economy and Finance to transfer the financial resources available for the year 2013 to ANAS in anticipation of the relevant budget chapter. Paragraph 4 concerns the RFI program contract. Paragraph 5 concerns Trenitalia Sicilia, in the mores of the conclusion of the public service contracts for the services of rail transport in the Region of Sicily and for the services separated between the Ministry of Infrastructures and the transports and the company Trenitalia SpA. Paragraph 6 deals with the payment of the railway services Valle d'Aosta. Paragraph 7 and paragraph 8 concern the Purchase Card, providing in particular for refinancing. Paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 are concerned with simplifying the procedure for the disposal of public buildings. On this point, too, a major debate was held within the Commission and in the amendments. Paragraphs 12 to 15 concern the Standing Committee for Global Consulting and Warranty for Privatizations; paragraph 17 the Italian company Labor, paragraph 18 the excises on tobacco and paragraphs 19 and 20 the tax of disembarkation in the smaller islands. I shall conclude a very brief summary of the draft law. I must point out that the work in the Commission has been very thorough, everyone has been given the opportunity to express their thoughts on many aspects, so the work has continued longer than planned. However, I believe that the result has led to an improvement in the text of the draft law, and I would like to thank the President and all the Commissioners for their contribution. I would also like to thank all the Commission's staff for their patience and support with the usual dedication. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Onghia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u11	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u12	Madam President, the measure under consideration is, as usual, an omnibus, so much so that I would suggest to the Government that it should stop naming these decrees with measures (...) and (...) and (...) and also (...): let us call them by their real name, namely omnibus. The term "puppet" used to be used in political advertising. We try to make Italians understand, because this is not the first time that happens, that everything must be included in these decrees because it is necessary to intervene on everything, but - be careful - not according to the logic of programming, but according to the logic of emergency repair; therefore we encounter issues that are completely heterogeneous between them. For example, we are talking - as the rapporteur said just now - about rules relating to the disposal of public buildings, i.e. state property, property of all, but we are also talking about reclamation measures (I am thinking of the Crotone area, the former Syndial area) and we are talking about harmonisation measures in the accounting of the budgets of local authorities. In short, the list of subjects dealt with by these decrees - I repeat that it is a chronic problem - is infinite and unlimited. I would like to address the Commission, knowing that my request will be delayed on time. Not me, but others, if I remember correctly Senator Finocchiaro, addressed to the Government months ago a heartfelt invitation that the matter of decree-laws, which, however, Parliament is obliged to convert the will of the majority to comply with the Government, be however homogeneous, as provided for in our constitutional dictation. Since, however, everyone is interested in the will of Parliament, so much so that the Government itself is particularly attentive to what I am saying, even this indifference to the words of representatives of the citizens (here we are all, whether of majority or opposition) denotes an attitude of absolute detachment and - let me say this - even of absolute contempt for the opinion of ordinary people, for the opinion of citizens, as proof of how they have arrived at fruit (let me forgive this slang expression). If you wish, however, I shall conclude with a quote which I like, a quotation which Mr Casson made months ago: 'Quousque tandem abutere(...) '? == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u13	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u14	Madam President, Decree-Law No 126 of 2013 which we are discussing contains a number of measures of a localistic and uneven nature. He comes to this House when 48 of the 60 days have passed for Parliament's conversion into law. It is clear that the House of Deputies will have to approve it as it will come from the Senate, because next week both Houses will close for the Christmas break and there will be no time for further reading of the Senate. We are now in constant and consolidated presence of a de facto monocameral system, without having carried out constitutional reform in this respect. As far as we wanted to examine this measure with a serene mind and with a benevolent eye, we could not find a single paragraph that could be shared. At first sight we had positively assessed paragraph 10 of article 1, with which 2 million euros are allocated for 2014 to the Municipality of Assisi for the completion of the hydrogeological works of a side. I wonder: how can this country get out of the crisis if to assign 2 million to a municipality for an emergency intervention to secure an inhabited side requires a law of the state? Dear President of the Council - the Undersecretary present transmits to the President of the Council - the simplification counter to verify and evaluate the performance of the public administration, which announced last week, was blocked before starting to shoot. Common sense tells me that, considering the need for an intervention, a decree of the head of the Umbria Region's Land Defence Service is enough to allocate funds for 2 modest million to solve a problem. Going to the other provisions, there are some particularly incomprehensible and inexcusable ones. It is clear that for reasons of time I can only list a few of them. With reference to article 1, paragraph 1, I ask you: for whom has this standard been packaged? Why is it necessary to exempt from the application of Articles 242 and 243 of the Single Text of Local Authorities provided for in Legislative Decree No 267 of 2000 the Municipalities implementing the experimentation concerning the adoption of the annual financial estimate of competence and cash? Why should institutions with serious and incontrovertible documented imbalance conditions be exempted from being centrally controlled on organic endowments, recruitment of staff and covering the costs of services? What does experimentation have to do with getting away with precise and correct rules for the management of public resources, to which all municipalities must submit? Why is it possible for the same institutions which have rigged the balance sheets through the unscrupulous use of assets and liabilities to compensate for any administrative deficit resulting from the extraordinary re-assessment of residues in ten years? Why are the other bodies, that is, the mayors who have inherited Municipalities that are not part of the experimentation, not allowed? How have the testing bodies been identified? Article 1, paragraphs 2 and 3 (regional rail transport of Campania): instead of moving on in a situation no longer manageable, additional extraordinary powers are conferred on the Commissioner until the approval of the return plan. I do not know when this plan of return will be approved; meanwhile, however, the companies with regional participation exhibiting the railway transport, which have accumulated mountains of debts, cannot be subject to executive actions. The same is true of paragraph 15: the same principle of non foreclosure is extended to hospital companies, for which there is no possibility of foreclosure of resources and assets corresponding to the salaries and competences of staff and tied funds. But do you even realize that not paying a supplier of goods and services sends the same to bankruptcy? What happened to legislative decree No. 192 of 2012, transposing the directive of Parliament and the European Commission of 16 February 2011, which obliges public administration to make payments of goods and services within 30 days, which then become 60 for ASL? If, therefore, the principle applies that those who do not pay cannot be foreclosed, then we extend it to all Italian craft, industrial and commercial enterprises which are in a position to be unable to pay, while being subject to bankruptcy proceedings. Yesterday the vice-president of the European Commission, Tajani, said that, if within one or two months there will be no reversal of the trend on the respect of the times of payment of companies by the public administration, he will be forced to open an infringement procedure against Italy for non-compliance with the Community directive. I think it is a significant fact: we pay the debts of the public administration and then we contract others. In article 1, paragraph 5, there is also talk of the commissionerial management of Rome Capital. By Decree-Law No 112 of 2008, the Mayor of Rome was appointed Extraordinary Commissioner of the Government with the task of verifying the economic and financial situation of the Municipality and of preparing and implementing the plan for the return of the previous debt of the Municipality itself. This was not done, but the subsequent legislative decree No. 78 of 2010 gave new impetus to the provision concerning the recognition of debts. Today, five years later, the measure under consideration authorizes the Extraordinary Commissioner of the Government for the Municipality of Rome to include in the passive mass an additional total amount of 115 million euros of debts accrued by the Municipality of Rome before 28 April 2008. I therefore ask the Government when it will be possible for the Italians to know the mountain of debts resulting from the waste of public money, the robberies, the misversations that characterized the administrative managements of the Municipality of Rome of Rotelli and Veltroni and, if you like, to follow, because in fact it does not change much. Since 2010 the Municipality of Rome has been allocated 500 million each year to repay its previous deficits, while the other municipalities have been stripped of their resources. As soon as elected the new mayor of Rome Marino has declared a hole of 867 million, that the Government is ready to recover. How many years will the Italians have to pay to heal and cover the debts of the City of Rome and allow the city of Rome to live for free behind all Italians? But there is not only this, and I refer to the provisions of article 1, paragraph 9 of the decree-law in question. In order to contribute to the overcoming of the ongoing crisis in the integrated management of the waste cycle in the territory of Rome Capitale, are ready 22.5 million euros (45 billion lire), since the Municipality of Rome has entered into a pact with the Ministry of the Environment that must be financed. Since, therefore, separate collection in Rome does not work - the percentage is only 30% - it will have to pay Italian citizens, who this year will pay 0.30 cents per square metre in the waste quota: it is therefore looting all Italy to finance the inefficiencies of the Municipality of Rome. In Marche, for example - and it is certainly not a region in which you can boast of many things - separate collection in 2012 reached 52 percent, and 74 municipalities out of 239 have already exceeded 60 percent, using the resources that citizens pay through the waste disposal tax. In article 1, paragraph 7, there are then 25 million euros as a contribution to the financing of the expenses for the realization of Expo 2015, exempt from the Stability Pact. So - I say to myself - when you want to, you can exempt yourself from respecting the Stability Pact. However, the Municipality of Cartoceto, for example, that due to the collapse of the historical walls had to clear 15 families and has its own funds to repair the damage, cannot spend them because otherwise it would pass the Stability Pact. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). The same applies to the town of Piobbico, which has seen its gym collapse and which, while having funds, cannot spend it because it would pass the Stability Pact. In short, some institutions may be exempted from the Stability Pact, while others may not. I'll finish. I should like to talk about the rejected amendments relating to the transfer of the operating costs of the judicial offices to the State, which is a state function; I should talk about the uncovered amendments, which transfer staff from the Monopolies to the Customs Agency, but time is clearly running out. It would take hours and hours to explain the negativity of this measure. Keep it up, while the public debt has already reached 2,085 billion. [[Applause from the FI-PdL-XVII Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u15	She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u16	Madam President, Senators, with regard to the overall picture of this decree-law, I would like to point out some of the shortcomings which even more denounce its absurdity. A continuous presence of extensions that are the obvious expression of the inability to provide long-term solutions to accidental problems. No trace of a structurally organized plan but only individual disorganic norms, aimed at occasionally buffering the gaps that gradually manifest themselves. What about that committee of experts on privatisation, which is also extended again and without time constraints outlined? A committee of internationally renowned experts paradoxically pays zero but at very high risk in the matter of absolute neutrality. But I would like to focus on the urgent financing measures to facilitate the implementation of the interventions planned for the Expo in Milan, a topic that is dear to us. Dear not because we see in this project a good, but because of the urgency of the serious consequences that will cause and is already causing in Milan, in the Lombardy territory and in general in our country. Let's get some numbers. During the last parliamentary term, various provisions have been made concerning the financial resources for the implementation of the work. Article 14, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law No 112 of 2008 authorized financing in the period 2009-2015: 30 million for 2009, 45 million for 2010, 59 million for 2011, 223 million for 2012, 564 million for 2013, 445 million for 2014 and 120 million for 2015, for a total of 1 billion and 486 million euros! Thrill numbers for this country! Then we come to list some criticalities reported by the Court of Auditors on Expo 2015 SpA. First, the company's activity was strongly influenced by the uncertainty of the constantly evolving regulatory framework, the operational difficulties and the indecision, which lasted almost three years, on the specific modalities of land acquisition and the resulting legal-economic regime to be applied. Second, the expectation of company continuity appears strongly conditioned by the financial support of the members, which has recorded a bending referable to the members Province of Milan and, to a lesser extent, also to the Chamber of Commerce of Milan. Thirdly, further events have affected the first major contracts and some sub-contracts linked, directly or not, to contractors, in previous or ongoing criminal proceedings, which post maximum supervision through careful monitoring of the execution of custody procedures. A few days ago, President Letta's statements about the Expo, which he described as a fundamental event for our country, could have the same impact as the 1960 Rome Olympics in showing the world the Italian economic miracle of the 1950s. Here's the first reflection on Expo 2015 comes from these words. Words that, together with an analysis of what was expressed about this event in this bill, are amazed. Article 1, paragraph 7, specifies that "for the year 2013 is allocated to the Municipality of Milan a contribution of 25 million euros as a contribution to the financing of the expenses for the realization". Faced with this umpteenth sum, the country asks for precise questions with an answer. This figure must be directed in the right direction, towards services of primary importance, not in an already bankrupt match exposure. The promises made punctually in the stages preceding any Expo are known: work, wealth and benefits for the entire city. The same promises, in essence, made by the promoters of the Meneghino event, who skillfully exploit stereotypes such as increased jobs and great economic opportunity in times of crisis to instill in the population the idea of a good, useful and convenient Expo for all. But the reality is completely different. Let's start with the occupation front. The aforementioned article 1, in its paragraph 8, extends to 31 December 2016 the effectiveness of the rule that allows recruitment of fixed-term personnel intended for the realization of the works of the Expo. Here they are, the great professional possibilities guaranteed by the big event: fixed-term recruitment! With regard to the issue of flexible contracts for the use of staff at the 2015 Exhibition, President Letta expressed himself last July, defining them as a potential national model. After all, we are in the age of flexibility. No wonder. The forms of precariousness are a model to be followed throughout the country. Moreover, the data from previous European experiences are not reassuring even on the economic opportunity front. From Lisbon to Hannover, the Universal Exhibitions of the last twenty years have given an ever lower result than the initial expectations, both in terms of visitors and on the dynamics of local administrations, which have been faced with deficits caused by the unbalanced use of resources in support of the event. Faced with such evidence, it is then to be wondered: a country exhausted and impoverished with constant cuts to the most essential resources such as health and education, a country affected by an unprecedented public debt, a country in which to make the balance of the accounts continues to exert a tax pressure now intolerable for most of the population, will be able to face the huge investments that a project like Expo requires, drawing real profit, without incurring the danger of a further failure? I'll finish. More than the Italian miracle of the 1960 Rome Olympics, in the Expo project you can see in the Greek mirror all the signs of their 2004 Olympics, that is, a crac whose wave of crazy and senseless expenses would flood with the force of a hurricane that minimum stability, if still exists, that allows our country to survive, despite everything. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u17	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you well know, there are about 8,000 municipalities in this country: 8,000 Municipalities where, every day, mayors, city councilors and councillors commit themselves to dedicating much of their lives to carrying out a public function today more and more burdensome than ever and more charged with bitterness. Since there are senators who have been mayors, you know very well what it means to be mayor today: continuous cuts, little money, great responsibilities and, Madam President, many nasty figures with their citizens. Work is also made difficult by the continuous production of standards. The cuts, Madam President, made by you in absolute continuity with the previous Government, make it an undertaking at the limit of the impossible. We also wondered, as a Group, if there are Municipalities and Municipalities in this country, Municipalities of a certain type rather than another, and the answer was: yes, I would say yes. To virtuous and effective administrations, in fact, there are other alternates where, in spite of the rules in force, with subterfuges and deceptions they hire friends, friends of friends, they waste resources (never their, always public ones) and they entrust public works to the usual known. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Madam President, with this measure the Government protects and protects only one municipality: Rome. Decree-Law No. 126 of 2013 is in fact known to all with the name of Salva Roma, precisely because the purpose of this provision is only one: to protect the eternal city. In Rome it wastes more than 100 million euros, to the virtuous municipalities of the North not a penny of euros. Indeed, Madam President, it will be these virtuous Municipalities who will have to pay the enormous debts accumulated by the maladministration of Capital. Madam President, do you not think that the situation is rather unfair? Here, in Rome, you have a very important industry, the only one that is not delocalizable, that is tourism; yet, you are not shining for management. This appropriation of EUR 115 million is in addition to funds already provided previously for an additional EUR 415 million. Madam President, this is an unacceptable situation, for which the Government, in the face of large resources allocated to one city, has torn its clothes in recent months, declaring and certifying the impossibility of obtaining and allocating EUR 350 million for the Italian municipalities in order to resolve the long-standing issue related to the IMU. Madam President, at this point it would be very nice for the other 8,000 mayors to know how much it costs and will cost this blessed eternal city, which - in our opinion - has only and always a great debt to repay. In fact, while in the Capitol the mayor of Rome Ignazio Marino, between one fight and the other, between fake and not fake ices, put himself in trenches to approve the budget of forecast, his trusty allies of Government have approved the measure that we are discussing today, with which for the umpteenth time public money is given to this city: 115 million euros! On the other hand, with gifts you are strong: you have made many with the maxicon for slot-machine operators. We also want to see how the issue of De Benedetti's hole will end: there is also a gift from the President of the Letta Council. We're really curious to see how this ends! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] While Rome is preparing to enjoy the kind present of whom you pay tribute (after all it is Christmas, so it is quite normal), thousands and thousands of mayors scattered throughout the Peninsula have to face daily the problems of their municipalities, which you have created. I am referring to the problems associated with that horrendous tax called IMU, which you have enjoyed for two years putting, changing, suppressing, reviewing and exempting. Congratulations! Over the last few months, you have succeeded in the uneasy undertaking of putting hand to the same tribute in as many as three different measures. Madam President, it is a hallucinating mess that has infuriated virtually everyone. In this case you were very good, because you have all agreed: citizens, mayors, accountants, trade associations. I repeat, most of them. Thank God, however, 2013 is coming to an end and, at least for this year, I think you will no longer have time to make such patronages. The problems are also linked to the odious Stability Pact. You always swear to change it, you always say you will intervene, but your promises are like those of the sailors, Madam President. Meanwhile the municipalities sink under the flood of rivers that overflow, because they lack funds for the settlement of the banks. Try to make a phone call to those of Sardinia! While you promise to review the Stability Pact here, it is in fact intensifying it. For more information, ask Minister Saccomanni how he financed his famous maneuver from a few weeks ago (on which our Group was not exactly online). Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to focus on this point. Every time the mayors come to Rome with their hat in their hand to ask the government to free up some resources, loosen the Stability Pact and lower the IMU, they always hear the usual answer, that is, that there is no money. It is a mantra reiterated in several ways, from the short cover (this blessed blanket!) the need to respect the constraints imposed by Brussels. Madam President, it is an annoying and unbearable litany, which is felt every time you enter the Roman Palaces. The mayors, as they have come, return home, with a nice pat on the shoulders, a couple of hours of anteroom, a few minutes of reception and the promise to - heard, heard - consider the opportunity to consider the possibility of modifying for the future exercise the constraints of public finance. Madam President, this is a great joke and nothing else. That is why we consider the measure that we are examining today in this House to all intents and purposes shameful. For this reason, we in the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group will oppose it with all our strength, certainly, Madam President, that unfortunately of measures such as this destined for the same city will arrive others, given the lack of sobriety in the management of this Town Hall. We oppose the measure for the respect of those mayors who go to the Commune every day to carry out their difficult task; we oppose it because in order to repay the debt of Rome the mayors of other cities will be forced, despite them, to apply the additional IRPEF; we oppose it out of respect for the exodus (you have created an incredibly negative social class in this country, and we absolutely did not need it); we oppose it out of respect for those first citizens who would like to lower the IMU on the productive buildings (and only God knows how much it is needed), but they cannot do it because you have cut the transfers that were already our money; we oppose it, finally, out of respect for those companies that would have wanted to see the reduction of the tax wedge. We are against this decree-law because it creates yet another Italian disparity, yet another example of that use of double standards that has characterized the country for at least 150 years. Ladies and gentlemen, you should also oppose it, because I believe that another surprise will come to the Roman citizens, among other things: the retouching of their paychecks with the increase of the IRPEF. This measure is deeply unfair and unfair and perfectly represents the system of public finance that we all in Parliament have been promising to overcome for years. Madam President, it seems to me that in order to save a municipality they want to kill 8,000 of them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u19	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u20	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 126 of 31 October 2013 contains a complex of uneven interventions of a localistic nature. A series of patches to the flaw that the failure to implement fiscal federalism and the failure to implement the spending review are producing in local finance. In article 1, paragraph 7, the allocation to the City of Milan alone (excluding the Region) of a contribution of 25 million euros as a contribution to the financing of Expo expenses is passed as an urgent financial measure. A goal which is in itself acceptable, but which is absolutely questionable as regards the allocation of resources and procedures, leaving aside the fact that the relative burden is borne by drawing partly from the fund for the stabilisation of public employment relations, partly from the resources for the recruitment of civilian personnel from military bodies in the Atlantic Community, partly - indeed - from the increases in the rate on excise duties. As for article 1, paragraph 20, we are faced with yet another pantomime on the Provinces. In fact, for the year 2013 the modalities of repartition of the experimental fund of rebalancing of the Provinces are identified confirming, in case of failure to deliberate in Conference State-City and local autonomy by 5 November 2013, the criteria already adopted for the year 2012. Immobilism on the subject of the Provinces reigns supreme with further probable damages. In Article 2, paragraphs 1 and 2, the sums to be paid to Poste Italiane SpA on the basis of the legislation in force are used as cover. It is clear that this is an authorisation of expenditure that cannot be reduced without intervening on the legislative factor upstream and therefore are not resources that can be used to cover it. The localism of the provision is confirmed also from the inspiration of article 2, paragraphs 5 and 6, where the Ministry of the economy and the finances is authorized to correspond to Trenitalia SpA the sums previewed, for the year 2013, from the budget of forecast of the State, in relation to the obligations of public service of railway transport by rail entrusted to the Region Sicily and the interregional services. In addition, an additional demonstration of inadequacy is contained in article 2, paragraph 16, which brings together in the forecast state of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism the non-committed resources stored in the special accounts identified by the same article 11, paragraph 9, as well as in the single treasury accounts of institutions with special autonomy in the field of cultural goods for the subsequent use in favour of lyric-symphonic foundations that pay in a situation of lack of liquidity. It is the umpteenth surrender compared to the declared inability of the administrations, such as those that depend on the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, to spend the allocated resources. Moreover, article 2, paragraph 17, allocates a financing of 13 million euros, for 2014, in favor of the company Italia Lavoro SpA, as a contribution for operating charges and for the general costs of structure, in violation of the logic of spending review. Moreover, article 2, paragraph 18, allows with a decree of the Minister of the Economy and Finances to modify the rates of excise duty and consumption tax on smoking products and their substitutes, to the maximum extent of 0.7%, in order to rebalance the incidence of the respective fiscal loads: a surreptitious form of increase of excise duties from unclear contours. Dulcis in the end, Article 2, paragraphs 19 and 20, on the tax of disembarkation in the smaller islands, allows to introduce, as an alternative to the tax of residence, a tax of disembarkation, already destined to finance interventions in the field of tourism, the use and recovery of local cultural and environmental goods and related local public services. Of course, we take advantage to increase the maximum amount of the tax (amounted to 2.50 euros and increased to 5 euros) and expand the aims to which it can be destined for interventions in the field of local police and security, mobility and road, collection and disposal of waste. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say with conviction that we cannot continue to use the urgent decree to resolve certain issues which, on the other hand, should have been dealt with systematically in the Stability Act. Once again, this Government uses this type of instrument to remedy convulsive legislation and to deal with the emergencies of local authorities through a very articulated decree-law and, among other things - as already said - disorganic in its components. Italian citizens need other initiatives, they need different interventions. We must work hard to solve the problems and not just to try to buffer them. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u21	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u22	Madam President, Decree-Law No 126 of 31 October 2013 introduces urgent financial measures in favour of regions and local authorities and interventions located in the territory. An initial critical element is the obvious heterogeneity of the whole measure. The subjects included are the most disparate: ranging from hydrogeological failure to interventions on the railway network, from the Covenant for Rome to the landslide of Assisi, to interventions related to Expo 2015. Reading this new decree, one wonders once again how it is possible to deal with topics that will affect people's lives so deeply, liquidating them in two monstrous articles from about twenty paragraphs each. You have a strong feeling you're going forward. Faced with the economic, social and moral breakdown of this country, our Executive has lost even the slightest desire to be able to implement incisive, shared and above all courageous reforms. You don't have a look at the future. Long-term interventions are not carried out to avoid the hydrogeological failure, which protects the health, the lives of people in all its forms. In a daily way, the cementification of immense territories is authorised and implemented, which then have to be repaired with extremely expensive buffer measures; in a continuous deal with interventions in the following, facing the after as if it were an hour, an hour loaded with tragedies. Since this measure was incardinated in the 5th Commission during the period when the law of stability was in question, the link with the budgetary session suggests that the text was the means used by the Government for the introduction of micro-sectoral or localistic interventions that are not placed in the law of stability, increasing the disparity between territories with respect to the recognized benefits and thus determining a sort of transition from the so-called law tip to the decree tip. Let us return to the decree, which, as such, according to law and the Constitution, must be absolutely linked to elements of necessity and urgency. Given that the very vague title of the measure may permit the identification of a link between such different provisions, neither the extraordinary necessity nor even the urgency of such a link is apparent, such as, for example, paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 2, which ensure compensation in relation to the conduct of strategic works. We are faced with provisions which were attempted to include in another text and which are now in the decree under consideration. These urgent compensatory measures for companies damaged by the arson events related to the protests for the implementation of the FTA were justified by government representatives with the concrete risk of an extensive relocation of the companies, resulting in loss of tax base which, indirectly, would be reflected negatively on the revenues of the territorial authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally see the urgency when I think of the entrepreneurs, craftsmen and workers who, like Mr. Pasqualino Contu, holder of the 3C, have stood up to the crisis and have not let themselves bend by the hydrogeological disruptions, but have lost all hope and strength of struggle in front of the non-answers that the Government continues to maintain, focusing its commitment in another: another light years from the needs of the citizens. I would have seen as necessary and urgent the need to create good legislative actions, which update applications for aid, rather than being always and only faced with unnecessary and at least harmful measures. We need to be able to implement policies that are able to act and envisage far-reaching actions and that see the future as a focus of life. This continuous absence of perspective, of the future undermines the same social and cultural balance, in a growing desperation and detachment from the system of society. There are countless areas of crisis: from health to social, from education to work. What in our country could be a resource - culture and territory - is slowly becoming a non-place of abandonment and oblivion. It is important to act and stem this situation of debacle, in an attempt to safeguard the same social and cultural life of our country, so that the future is not only an unattainable time, but becomes an action and fruit of the strength and value of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator Valentini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u24	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the adoption of a measure concerning urgent financial measures in favour of regions and local authorities. This is an effort, which I very much appreciate, on the part of the Government and its President, with interventions that cannot be postponed in some local areas of our country. However, I believe that this measure, while making a significant contribution to some local authorities, also highlights a general problem that we will have to deal with systematically in the coming months as soon as possible. For years we have been discussing the function of local authorities; we have moved from the reform of Title V of the Constitution to fiscal federalism, through the reform of the single text on local autonomy, to the abolition of the Provinces. We have thought about the administrative tasks and tasks of everyone, sharing the competences that were to be exercised, but it remains the issue of the economic availability with which these tasks can be carried out. More and more of the economic and financial resources allocated to local authorities - particularly the municipalities - are impoverishing the field of action of these institutions, which are the only true democratic and concrete reference of the citizens. It is recent news the alarm cry launched by the president of the ANCI, Piero Fassino, on the need to find in the next law of stability adequate resources for the municipalities. In this respect, the case of Rome is emblematic. I make this example in the next few minutes, because my experience and my biography lead me to better know this reality with its limits, its potentialities and its specificity. In recent years Rome has experienced a state of slow degradation, abandonment and great difficulties ancient, old and new (I think of its 200,000 unemployed, 40% of youth unemployment, the 13 commercial and craft shops that every two months close, the building crisis and so on), as well as all the other municipalities of our country. Government interventions, although of a commercial nature, which I greatly appreciated, have allowed Rome to close a dramatic 2013 budget and today offer aid for the difficult composition of that of 2014; however, they do not appear to resolve the chronic lack of resources allocated or transferred to a metropolis. Nor can the subject of heavy debt that weakens the city due to the responsibility of the city's government be eluded, but also to the heavy task that Rome as capital has over the years borne by itself. Citizens and businesses have the privilege of living in Rome, but at the same time bear the weight of the presence of the central administration, the unfolding of demonstrations, marches, strikes, international events. Let's just think about what has happened and is happening in our city not in the last few days, but in the last few months. There is still a need for a complete infrastructure network, especially in the transport sector, and a suitable system of services available to citizens and those who do not live in it, are taking advantage of it for work. Rome must be able to play its role as the capital of Italy because it represents the symbol of an entire nation, and because, as Cavour said at the time, Rome is a national issue. It cannot be that a State invests in its capital. We have struggled and are still struggling to recognize Rome as the capital of Italy, as it is constitutionally recognized, and to give to it the resources that are due to it, not to commercials as we are doing in recent years, then giving the responsibility of the Government to the mayors and the municipal council of their work and their budgets. We have therefore struggled and are struggling to recognize Rome as the capital of Italy. I would like to give just a few examples and recall the regulatory provisions that have followed in time: in 1980 the first proposal of Rome's capital law with the first signatory Enrico Berlinguer; in 1990 the law of the State on Rome capital; in 2001 the constitutional reform of Title V; in the years 2001 to 2006, the Berlusconi Government will clear the extraordinary funds in Rome capital; the law on fiscal federalism and the forecast of successive delegations in Rome; in 2012 the conferral of extraordinary administrative functions in Rome capital. It's been 33 years. I would also remind you that the provisions of Law No 42 of 2009 have not yet been applied. This is to say that there was no decree that as a whole outlined a project and resources to make Rome the Capital of Italy. I believe that today it is in the metropolis that we play the game of economic and social development in an increasingly intense competition at global level and it would be idle here to remember the special status that distinguishes - just to make some European example - Paris, London or Berlin and the additional resources made available to them for years. There is no doubt that they are far ahead of Rome. We come to us with this law... president. Senator Valentini, you have to finish your speech. Mr Valentini (PD). I would ask you, Madam President, for one more minute, because this is an important point. Rome, with its mayor Ignazio Marino and all its City Council, majority and opposition, will have to start an epochal and historical challenge of reform and consolidation, beginning with its companies and companies participated, including those companies that do not have as their social purpose priority public service activities, thus outlining them - just as we must - a special project of Rome capital, investing on their peculiarities and their resources. I shall conclude with one important aspect, by cutting off the entire end of my speech. They must understand and address the issue, in particular among the various companies, of AMA which is unable, as it is, to achieve the objectives of separate collection, since in this law we help and support the Municipality of Rome, because it is right to do so, on separate collection. But that city, with its Junta and its mayor, has to solve huge problems that come from afar. They have the duty to resolve them today as we have the duty to do our part on Rome's capital of Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u25	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce that the LAG Group will vote against the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 126 of 31 October 2013, for a number of reasons already well illustrated by my previous colleagues. Our criticism, however, is based more on a general assessment of the measure than on the incongruity and negativity of some norms included in the decree "Zabaione", omnibus, which does nothing but crowd in 2 articles as many as 40 paragraphs. I say this because when we denied the confidence of the Led Government a few days ago we specifically challenged this Executive not to have a horizon of value, an idea of the state, the nation, the needs and priorities corresponding to a model of socio-economic reference. This decree-law is the typical expression of a government that makes the politics of warm cloths, that is, a government that, in a system essentially socialist crypt and certainly statist, does nothing but put a series of pieces and patches, as on the dress of Harlequin, to stem some specific problem. And if there is any doubt about the concept of government, the nation, the type of state that this government supports and confirms, there is the rule that concerns the impignability of funds at local health companies. I believe that only in Pol Pot's Cambodia or, more recently, in North Korea can there be a denial of the right for a creditor to claim its claims after providing services on behalf of a public body. I do not want here to recall the orthodoxy or not of these measures in relation to the judgment of the Constitutional Court that a few months ago torn this measure repeated over the last four years by seating suppliers of goods and services, health facilities, professionals and all the varied range of those who do not belong to the State's "Stipendifice." I am referring to those professionals and self-employed who, in addition to not giving their contractual dues, are denied even the possibility of having their rights recognized or complicated by bureaucracy, which is the distinctive element of statism. On the other hand - Silone said - difficulties are created in order to be able to sell benefits: what else is bureaucracy for? Therefore, further impediments are being created. Then it is said, in other legislative measures, that we want to allocate funds to help these companies and these self-employed workers who run the risk of failing, because Equitalia does not have these kinds of impediments when it has to demand taxes, when it has to demand contributions, when it has to demand the taxes that, at the central and local level, load and weigh down the management of these enterprises. What else about injustice? This is a government that, like all state governments, loves euphonies. Social justice is often uncomfortable by all, as if it were not an oxymoron: the right things are right in themselves and do not need other powers, such as sociality. And what does the government do? While giving 115 million euros - 115 million - to the Municipality of Rome, it makes a magnanimous donation of 35 million euros for the Charter of Purchases. In other words, it confirms the alms that are granted to the most indigent part of the country, the one that can not even survive, reconfirming the 40 euros per month - 40 euros - to support the weak, the most derelict part of society. Is this your social justice? Is it wasting in carriages and carriages, in clientele, in useless bodies, if not harmful, in the Bolse architecture of the State hundreds of millions and then giving alms to the poorest with just 40 euros per month? Well, we will vote against it for this reason, and we will always be against it in Parliament whenever we do not refer to socio-economic models in this House. In fact you can be communists, socialists, liberals, but you must be something, because otherwise this House becomes the seat of the game of Monopoly: the fair of power for the power of those who occupy the armchairs, without there being a model of state reference to which consistently and objectively direct the measures for the government of the country. This is a policy that goes out of its way, that dissipates where it should be saved and saves where, especially the weakest, it should be granted more liberally and with greater generosity. The Sicilian friends of the LAG reminded me of the fact that my Region, Campania, received a donation of 50 million euros: this is not the case. We have received a loan, but we still have to receive EUR 1 billion for health expenditure. You gave us (i.e. loaned) 50 million. Don't give us this charity, rather give us the support of the regional health fund of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Don't give us charity or charity! What else about this measure, which is a bit of a zibaldone? This is a measure which, generally speaking, seeks to compensate for the damage suffered by undertakings in the implementation of public works following the crimes committed in order to prevent, disturb or slow down the implementation of the works. Well, the disturbance on Salerno-Reggio Calabria is now twenty years old, if not thirty years old. Do another thing: pay these companies with the SALs, with progress work; pay these companies with the knowledge that the contract provides. Do not put them in a position to subjugate the banks, who do not give money to these companies, who anticipate them in the name of the State. And try to prevent the organized underworld, and not the political underworld, which is a small expression of the latter. What to say in conclusion? We will vote firmly and decisively against this measure, because we believe it to be Harlequin's dress. Ours is a nation that looks more and more like Pulcinella and doesn't need Harlequin's clothes. [[Applause from Senator Morra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u27	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u28	Madam President, this measure was discussed in a Commission in which the climate was a bit agitated, in which the work was carried out in a very confusing way, I believe - not by chance - because of the contradictions contained in it, because of the way in which we came to the vote on issues of an absolutely financial nature, but also from a political point of view; in a condition in which, on time, the majority needed "red aid" in order to withstand, otherwise, it would have gone under several times, perhaps with some pleasure for the same members of the majority and with some bits of pleasure from the Government itself, which played a further aggravating function the confusion we experienced in the Commission's work. In fact, the government has often changed its character, sending all the Undersecretaries of which it had availability according to the times; it has been confused in the answers several times; it has left many points still to be clarified in the course of today's debate, before the vote. 11:06 a.m. (URAS followed). Therefore, we are faced with a measure that I would call schizophrenic: because schizophrenic is the majority that produced it, because schizophrenic is the same Government. I say this because otherwise, one would not understand why this decree-law passed as a measure save Rome. It contains within it a provision that, drawing on the current part of the administration of the commissioner to which Rome has been subjected for the debt that is burdened on its financial condition, allows the closure of the preventive budgets for 2013 and 2014 precisely by dealing with the resources that have been allocated to the payment of the debt. At the same time, a discussion was opened and an amendment was launched within the majority which is particularly punitive for that administration which - be careful - is managed by a mayor expressing the relative majority party of the government coalition. So, on the one hand, you help yourself, on the other, you penalize yourself. The motivation? The debt aggrave originated from the last four years of management of the Municipality of Rome by the outgoing mayor, a political exponent who was part of the coalition of Government until the other day and today no more. This is to outline a little of the political condition in which we had to operate. What came out of it? A measure like many people come out of these times: on the one hand, there is an almost exasperated tension on the accounts, so much so that we want to dismiss, to disband the state's assets, to renounce important economic activities, to put them on the market - I say - in many cases to the worst bidder rather than to the best bidder; on the other hand, we make a kind of omnibus article, in which we collect all the corporate and localistic pressures that can be collected within the coalition of majority, as the needs of individual parliamentarians or as the needs of restricted branches of the same Government. We are in a condition in which everything and the opposite of everything can be contained in any measure that is dismissed by Parliament. Then, we are the ones responsible for this affair who work inside a normifice that never stops to really reason on the merit: a normifice where the most important thing is the time within which the measures must be closed (this expires in a few days, was fired on 31 October). Important issues, such as the future of Rome Capital, are interwoven with other important issues, such as the disposal of public assets. I also had a difficulty in the Commission itself, and I apologise for the tone I used in a heated debate there. But - be careful - the State entrusts the most qualified technical assistance and advice to volunteering: there is a committee that supports the Ministry of Economy for the disposal of our assets, which is not only real estate, but is also other, is industrial heritage and economic activity. In short, we entrust it to an advisory committee that is formed on a voluntary basis, without remuneration, any kind of compensation, presence tokens. And this even seems to be an important innovation in fact what does it do? It restricts the perimeter within which the State can make the choice: it cannot choose who wants to be paid for its ability to help the State to sell, and therefore to earn from the sale, but it has a choice limited only to those who can make themselves available for free compared to this function. The State, therefore, renounces to exercise in the general interest its authority of choice, which goes beyond any kind of border, and does so on a proposal from the Government itself. Some would think to say that he has already found them and, then, he might as well have written his name and surname to us: we would have judged already on the competence of those who must help the Ministry of Economy in the sale of the assets. How do you combine all this and everything we do? Mr President, we have approved here a text of the Stability Act, in which, in a spirit of solidarity, Parliament expressed its support for the people affected by the floods in Sardinia. That text, which had come out of the Commission with a certain amount, now sees that figure now marked in this way in the maxi amendment: up to and including the commitments already made on that special accounts. In conclusion, the result of this story is then that, while on the one hand we do - or rather fairies - those who save on misfortunes, other measures and other articles devote to localistic workshops, to widespread corporateisms large and important financial resources of the State. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and the Candiani and Council senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u29	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u30	Mr President, I think it is clear, also from the speeches of the rapporteur and colleagues, how we are faced with an absolute emergency measure, which seeks to respond to a local and regional finance that is in great and very clear trouble. In fact, it is no longer able to find a balance, above all in terms of management structure and transparency. We see that, for the umpteenth time, the norms in the matter of new organization and new order of the accounting of local finance, a order wanted by the implementing decrees of federalism in order to make transparent, comparable and consolidated the whole system of local finance. Well, it is further postponed, giving the sign of a financial management that fails to stand on regularity fees, to standardize itself, to translate into a readable and transparent system. The lack of a balance of local and regional finance is also recorded in terms of fiscal structure. We have seen in these two years a turnover of legislation on taxation based on the Commons in all systems I do not say federalists, but simply administrative decentralization (I am referring to real estate taxation), and this has certainly led to a situation of enormous uncertainty, both in terms of resources and powers. This has certainly caused the financial and administrative difficulties of the local authorities, as well as being a kind of alibi that has allowed not to direct administrative management towards those criteria of efficiency and economicity which, on the other hand, are no longer deferred. So it went on - and we see in this decree, which once again tries to put patches - a mass of precarious staff. It has continued to amplify the system of municipal, provincial and regional companies, which have now unsustainable costs and generate deficits that are no longer hidden, because progressively the rules of emergence towards an accounting of companies, which tends to consolidate with that of local authorities, no longer allow these same companies to be the carpet under which to hide the dust of public deficits. In this way, employment expectations have been generated, through precarious employment and often dissensible assumptions, such as those of the Municipality of Rome, in public societies: these expectations, fueled in a guilty way, cannot be met, because there are neither organizational nor financial requirements, and all this today determines great social tensions. So the problem is, of course, how to bring this situation back into order and into financial equilibrium, especially at a time of difficulty. This increases the responsibility of a political class that has not managed the change in the local system of organization when possible, when the economic situation of the country would have allowed it better. The point is that what for years has been considered the solution of the problems - that is, to widen the scope of the expenditure of public management of economic activities - has now become the real problem and no longer the solution. In fact, it was not created, when it could be done, a dynamic service economy, capable of expanding even outside the municipal territories and creating real, unassisted, non-customer employment. And today the municipal system is in crisis which, moreover, is and remains - in this I agree with those who preceded me in the debate - an unavoidable pillar of the democratic system, the frontier of the relationship between citizens and institutions. For this reason I believe that it is necessary, also thanks to the rules certainly not beautiful contained in this decree, to initiate a deep reflection and relaunch the reforms postponed: the code of autonomy, acclaimed for fifteen years and always set aside, and the processes of organizational simplification written in Title V of the Constitution, of which we have taken what was pleasing (i.e. the fiscal powers) and has left out what created complexity (i.e. a reorganization in terms of efficiency, reduction of the number of institutions, amalgamation according to criteria of dimensional community, simplification and proximity). The mayors today, rightly, complain because they have to manage a situation of extreme difficulty, but they must also make considerable self-criticism. It was the mayors, in fact, who very often resisted change, By delaying it. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] The code of autonomy is one of the land on which we faced each other without reaching a solution. So, the decree-law today at our examination is a mirror of this situation. We know that we cannot go very far by continuing with solutions of this kind, which are no longer financially viable and in terms of answers on the quality of services to be offered to citizens and public ethics. As far as the decree is concerned, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Government for their thorough and very positive discussion in the Commission. I would like to highlight two points on which we personally and as a Group have committed ourselves. The first is the question of Rome, which I know historically well and which suffers from a lack of recognition of its specificity as capital, its exceptionality in terms of territorial configuration, completely different and not comparable as size and complexity to that of other metropolitan cities. There is therefore an underestimation of the role of capital to speculate at the low perception of the national identity of the country: we do not have the national pride that causes the symbol of national identity to be identified in the capital. Perhaps we should have valued the 150 years of the Unity of Italy in order to relaunch and reaffirm this principle. It is a historical deficit that has covered in recent years (not only in the last few, but also in the previous ones) a poor assumption of responsibility for change. The very serious financial situation in Rome has led the State and all taxpayers to assume a debt stock of almost a point of GDP and that today, through this decree, we must compete with public resources and with the resources of the Roman taxpayers, the most taxed in Italy, to balance the current budget. Therefore, when the League speaks against Rome it should remember that the Roman taxpayers are crushed by the additional ones, which are further increased by this decree. For this reason the Roman ruling class must take care of the rehabilitation. The amendment that we have tabled, accepted by the rapporteur and the majority of the Commission, identifies the road map of structural consolidation which must be taken as its own responsibility by the city of Rome, in the face of the solidarity of the national community with regard to its difficulties. I therefore believe that this road map should be followed, and we, as a Parliament, will monitor it, because it is the condition to legitimise and justify the sacrifice that the national system takes. Another point that I would like to stress, in conclusion, is the rule on national privatisations. These are transferred, in terms of political responsibility, to the Presidency of the Council and to an interministerial committee, subtracting them from what has been a rightly criticized approach over the last twenty years, namely a purely financial and technocratic approach, which must remain a guarantee of procedures, but must also be measured with a strategic vision in terms of industrial policy and the protection and exploitation of national strategic assets. For these reasons we will approve the conversion into law of the decree under consideration, positively assessing its contents and knowing that it is the premise for relaunching a season of reforms in this field. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u32	Mr President, first of all I would like to remind Senator Lanzillotta that the League is not shooting at Rome, but at those administrators who are doing everything in Rome that we have seen and are seeing right now. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It is true that a capital must have respect and recognition, but respect and recognition must be obtained and above all deserve them! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] And since you have to deserve things, today we are here to deal with the decree save Rome, a provision that gives me goose bumps and reminds me of the geese of the Capitol, which saved Rome in times not suspicious. A decree to save a city that, thanks to tourism, the state apparatus and the tertiary sector, should be the one that needs the least of all to be saved! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] A city that allows itself to snatch the Grand Prix to the city of Monza (or that claimed to snatch it), a city that allows itself to want to compete with Milan when we talk about the Olympics or Venice for the Film Festival, and then it must be saved. Then, before you look elsewhere, look into your own home, gentlemen! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] But let us analyze what this decree saves Rome, because it is not only about Rome. In article 1, paragraph 2, we find provisions to guarantee the plan of return of the deficit of the railway transport companies of the Campania Region. A Commissioner will have the opportunity to set up a support structure to achieve the objectives. Well, ladies and gentlemen, how has public affairs been handled in these places for 150 years, can we be a little worried? In article 1, paragraph 4, it is expected the creation of a rotation fund aimed at granting the Campania Region cash advances for the financing of the return plan: 50 million euros. Also here, as usual, money to the usual known, who are unable to manage public money; inept who are continually being helped by the State that punishes serious local authorities - the famous 8,000 municipalities that Senator Council has spoken about - to live all in the banana country, where everything is allowed. And here we are at the heart of the measure, article 1, paragraph 5: 115 million euros for the debts of Rome capital, which are added to the previous 12 billions and to the new 4 billions. And that is not what Senator Centinario says, but the note of reading the measure under consideration, on page 4, 16 billion euros! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] In Italy 8,000 municipalities live in desperate conditions, between the Stability Pact, IMU and the economic crisis and the Government finds billions of euros for the usual known, to save a city whose economic problem is in the eyes of all. It is a decree saves Rome, kills Italy. As usual, in Italy there are children and stepchildren: you give 4 billion to the Municipality of Rome and, to our request to allocate 10 million euros (I don't say 100 million, I don't speak of billions) to the virtuous municipalities, you replied no. Thank you! In article 1, paragraph 6, the City of Rome capital is authorized to increase the measure of the additional IRPEF rate. At last the citizens of Rome, who already pay the taxes, will have additional taxes and will thank their administrators and this Government. Thank you! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In article 1, paragraph 9, it is expected for the "Patto per Roma" (the program to intensify the separate collection) in addition to the first money, another 28.5 million euros in three years: to the face of fools, honest citizens and honest municipalities and all those municipalities that in recent years, in North and South, have worked with commitment to make separate collection to their citizens. Thank you! In Article 1, paragraphs 19 and 20, the landing tax shall be imposed on the smaller islands. The residence tax of one euro falls and one is expected to vary between 2.5 and 5 euros. And this is a government that wants to protect and increase tourism in Italy, which should be our war machine to the rest of the world? Is this a government that helps the tourism sector bring new tourists to areas that live on tourism only? Who are you kidding, gentlemen? Enough: you have to say that you don't care about tourism, you don't care about tourists and that for you it's just more money to take home! Then, there are the marchettes, which never fail; here too we are at the marchettodrome. Amendment 2.0.17 was approved in the Commission last night, with which 500,000 euros are allocated to the Municipality of Pietrelcina; one million euros to the school of the Municipality of Marsciano (also to the municipality of Pavia we need the schools!) [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ; a million to the Municipality of Sciacca for the restoration of the municipal palace (I think of the many colleagues who see the municipal palace falling apart, but who have not received the million euros: that's fine!) [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ; 500,000 euros to the Municipality of Menfi for the restoration of the anticorsara tower. Are there still runners? But if we talk about culture, for the restoration of cultural heritage we can make a broader reasoning and check how many municipalities and Italian realities have these problems. But we're at the marcette! The same amendment also allocated EUR 1 million for the Municipality of Frosinone for the reconstruction of the viaduct. We too have to redo the ring road: we need EUR 2 million. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is another mess where the little money available serves to help the usual known, where the virtuous bodies are sacrificed and the citizens are mocked to send money to the usual known, where thanks to the emergency the usual known breath of relief. Once again, the usual known - that is, in this case, we - pay and they laugh. Thank you! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u33	She is registered to speak Senator Chiavaroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u34	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to express my thanks to the entire 5th The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and Industrial And, therefore, thanks are really of substance and not formal. At the moment it is very easy to make the comments I have heard in this House and which I have read in the newspapers. It's very easy to demagogy. For example, on Rome capital assigning responsibilities to all means assigning them to no one. I therefore share the considerations of Senator Lanzillotta, who said that it is necessary to respond to problems and emergencies. Rome is our capital and the measure under consideration gives answers. Of course, they are answers to an emergency that will have to be dealt with systematically, as will the issue of local and regional finance, too subject to changes and changes that put the municipalities and administrations in difficult conditions for their budgets and to make their own choices. The subject must therefore be addressed in a general, systematic way, not by simply giving the answers due by overlapping, perhaps, measures that deal with the same subjects, as has happened in the last period. I remember, in fact, that in the last month these issues were dealt with in three decree-laws: in the maneuver with the Stability Pact, in the decree-law now under consideration and in the next decree-law on the IMU. Also from this point of view we agree on the necessity of an organic and systematic revision recalled by Senator Lanzillotta, but the responsibility of those who sit to the Government is to give answers. It is too easy to talk about problems and highlight them: the problems must then be answered with concrete actions that resolve them. And the decree-law of which today we discuss the conversion solves a series of problems, starting from those of the budget of Rome capital, for which the Commission has made some reflections and has asked the Government for clarification, for example about the numbers contained in paragraph 5 of Article 1, relating to the amounts that can be used to guarantee the balance of the current part of the budget of Rome capital for the years 2013 and 2014. We're waiting for the government to let us know. However, we have approved a rule that allows us to make an analysis of the causes of the failure and the possible remedies for the future. From this point of view too, we therefore consider the debate that took place in the Commission to be very fruitful. Then there are some issues that have been raised in the Commission on which we want to focus our attention. A very important measure we consider to be the abolition in the Commission of paragraph 18 of Article 1, which concerned the auditors of companies participating in the local authorities and extended to these companies the rule that the draw of auditors for the part of the latter that is responsible for the choice of the public entity. Well, we wanted policy to make its own choices. Very often, in fact, the participating companies are involved both by public and private bodies; we want to claim that the public body has the same capacity as the private individuals to choose the best people, to choose also those who control the accounts of these companies based on merit and not making the usual choices that are charged to politics. Therefore, by abolishing this paragraph, we wanted to claim this role for the policy that we consider to be an important responsibility. In addition, in the measure under consideration, we have corrected a huge twist contained in the so-called maneuver that we approved last week, after having arrived in the Senate during the conversion in times unfortunately very tight and that therefore we could not modify in that place. We proposed to do so again in the decree-law on local authorities that we are now converting into law and the Budget Committee has done so: it has deleted Article 2-a of the so-called Manovrina, which allowed public administrations to withdraw from the leases at any time; a rule that we have considered to be abnormal compared to the result that it wanted to achieve, because the rentals at non-market prices can still be cancelled by the public administration. That general rule made public administration a more unreliable contractor and this would also put at risk the plan for the disposal of public buildings, which at this time is a very important point of the government programme and which is also mentioned in the measure under consideration. This is another of the results we have achieved in the Commission and I think it is important. In the Commission, we also discussed other very important issues relating to local finance and local authorities, in particular the cost control, tendering and how they are carried out, as well as the CONSIP system. We have not come to a decision and we have not made any decisions on it, but we have only adopted an agenda. However, we believe that this is another important issue which we will have to deal with, which we have anticipated in the Commission today and which we are sending back to the Government with an agenda. In conclusion, I confirm that the Group of the New Right Centre will vote in favour of this measure, and will do so because being in government means giving answers to problems, and this is a decree that responds alas to so many, too many problems that we have with local authorities and local finance, but that we cannot leave only to proclamations and words. The problems must be answered by the facts. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u35	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u36	Mr President, I too would like to begin my speech by opening a brief overview of the work of the Budget Commission. It is true that the Budget Committee is at the service of the other Commissions and the House, but I believe that we are no longer in service but are truly becoming slaves to this pace of work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] that does not allow us to analyze the decrees-laws thoroughly. In spite of the fact that every Commissioner in the Budget Commission really puts his heart and passion on it, trying to do his best to get out of the decrees that have been improved (even those of the Government sent at the last moment and perhaps not shared), it is not possible, given the work we have in the Commission, to do a decent job. I therefore ask all the Commissioners and the President to take charge of the Government and the presidency of the Senate to provide for a timetable in the House of Decree-Laws that will allow us to work seriously and not in the way we have done so far. Let me now turn to the decree. The government is using municipalities as gabeliers to collect taxes to be budgeted, leaving nothing for local administrators and drastically cutting transfers to local authorities. I remind everyone that in 2009 and 2010 the municipalities managed the ICI, an income then for the benefit of the municipalities alone. In 2011 the ICI was removed and in 2012 the IMU was introduced, of which an important share belongs to the State. In 2012 the TARES was introduced for 2013, without forgetting also the TARSU. Therefore, logic is always the same: to use municipalities as state collectors. This does not seem to me fiscal federalism, on the contrary, it seems the exact opposite: with federalism we were talking about transferring part of the state's revenue to the municipalities to make them autonomous [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] , while in reality the government has become the parasite of municipal taxes. In addition, in recent years there has been a progressive cut in local authorities, without making a smart cut in central spending. However, the municipalities cannot think of healing situations of economic-financial stress created by them always and only by addressing the State. That is why, for example, I would like to take the Municipality of Parma, starting from the transfers that the State made in favour of it. In 2009, transfers amounted to more than €44 million, to become just under €47 million in 2010 and then drastically reduced to €3.6 million in 2011 and to the same figure in 2012. So, what obviously did the City of Parma have to do to avoid cutting essential services? The responsibility has been assumed - a strong responsibility because this choice certainly did not create consensus - to increase local taxes. At the same time, however, he redefined the public works that still had to be done, eliminating those that certainly seemed the most insane and instead highlighting those that had to be realized before major damage was caused, as in the case of the resetting of the roofs of the schools. He has therefore chosen to remove asbestos from the roofs of schools, something that not many municipalities think about. In Emilia-Romagna there are 800 schools that still have asbestos cover, and there are still no strong actions of the Government in this regard. Perhaps - even here - we wait for this to turn into urgency or - even - into a tragedy, as always. Also in Parma we are witnessing the disposals of the participating companies, the non-strategic ones, always to try to restore a hole of 840 million euros, obviously inherited from the previous administrations. A whole part of the recontracting of the services and works entrusted to the participants of the Municipality was therefore carried out, for a saving of 200 million euros. Then we find the reorganization of organizational positions and the redefinition of compensation, saving - even here - 250,000 euros per year, as well as a reduction of 1.600,000 euros for managers. Of course, this has also been possible thanks to the derogation granted with regard to the Stability Pact: for this we thank the Government, even if we still do not find transfers of funds. Another absurd situation that always concerns the municipalities is that of the rents of the judicial offices. The judicial offices have a lot of expenses: expenses necessary for the premises, the stakes, the repairs, the maintenance, the lighting, the heating, the storage of the rooms themselves, the supplies of water, the telephone service, the supply and the repair of the furniture and the installations related to them, as well as the detached offices of the pretura. All these expenses are anticipated by the municipalities and then should be reimbursed, but in reality the government reimburses up to 70%, in fact, lately the Minister has said that it will reimburse at most 50%. This means that the municipalities not only do not receive money from the State, but must anticipate them in their pockets to wait, with ease, for the State to decide to give them back. I conclude by saying that the state must be responsible and set a good example. I often say this in this House lately: the state must set a good example. It would seem, in fact, in general that the virtuous Municipalities are almost always martyred, while the non-virtuous Municipalities go on also supported by the State. It would be great if you could reverse this. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u38	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it has rightly been said by those who have preceded me that this measure seeks to put order in a complex system which is undoubtedly in trouble today. I have participated in most of the Commission's work and I can say that this difficulty of local authorities has been understood and that we were all aware of how difficult it was to respond to the many requests and emergencies that local authorities are putting on the table today. The complexity of the amendments tabled, including those adopted by the Commission, gives us an accurate picture of how complex the situation in which our local authorities are forced to operate today is. Hence, the need to put order in this design from the highest levels emerges. I am referring to those of our Parliament, where the debate is already under way. I would also remind you that, at the level of the Provinces, the bill of institutional reorganization of provincial bodies will shortly arrive in the Senate to reach even the lowest level, the one near the citizen. I believe that, at last in general and overall terms, we must address the whole system of reorganization and, in particular, that the solution remains the same: giving the bodies real competences and, consequently, a responsibility, which then translates into having to give autonomy, but a real autonomy, which means responding, because it is no longer tolerable that those who have the autonomy to do not then have the duty to respond and that when the debts are created, as we have seen in the discussion of this draft law, there is no one - the State, in particular - who is responsible for them. As a group for self-government, we have constantly emphasised this concept. I have to say that President Letta, in the debate on the confidence that took place a few days ago, also stressed the importance of giving value to local self-governments and distributing responsibilities. We really hope that this design can take shape and can finally be started. Local authorities expect a lot. There are many outstanding issues that need to be addressed today and that this draft law unfortunately does not address, not least because, on the other hand, it deals with some very specific issues and situations, as the previous speakers have also said. We expect, in particular, that the problem of the Stability Pact will be finally resolved, especially for small municipalities, because in this way many times the virtuous administrations, those who have set aside the resources and have the possibility to spend them, are penalised, but today, for absurd and incomprehensible legislation, they cannot commit them and, consequently, cannot restart the economy. Unlocking these resources today is really crucial in order to be able to restart investments and give jobs to businesses. The second aspect I would like to focus on is the simplification of legislation; as the Government has also said in the last plan that has put in place, that of "Destination Italy", it is necessary to succeed again to attract investors. We must ensure that Italy becomes an attractive country for investments, for those who want to open a company, for those who want to develop their own business, and not, vice versa, as happens today, for companies to flee. The dramatic reality that we face is that of companies that relocate because in our country, because not only of the tax burden, but also of the bureaucracy, it is really difficult to resist, but above all it is difficult to grow and develop, and this problem can only be addressed through a strong and drastic legislative simplification. Unfortunately, I must also record that in the various Commissions in which I have the opportunity to participate the temptation to increase controls, to introduce new rules and to burden the bureaucratic machine, as well as the fact that we always proceed with omnibus measures, does not go in the direction I have indicated above. The consequence is that we find ourselves with a whole series of heavy regulations that we cannot enforce. Even in the draft law that we are about to adopt today, there is, for example, an extension to the anti-fire legislation, which is absolutely necessary, given that the tourist facilities have also failed to comply with the heavy standards that have been approved. I am also thinking of the anti-asbestos, anti-seismic and anti-noise regulations (we have them in every field); very often it is the public bodies that fail to respect them because they cost too much, and if we do not succeed the public we think we can imagine how the private can do it. Therefore, I believe that a process of simplification and clarification of legislation is really essential. The third aspect I want to address concerns procurement legislation. Today we have to work at the lowest level and the consequences are in everyone's eyes in terms of the quality of the work done, the damage to local businesses, which are the ones that guarantee the quality of work and create social cohesion on the ground. With the greatest downsides we create many failures. If we think of the agreements that are closing everywhere at 5, 7, 10%, we realize what the consequences are for our companies. I also want to talk about the registration fee. The Monti Government had abolished all tax exemptions. Some were right to actually scale them down and abolish them, but others were absolutely important. I am thinking of the small peasant property in part restored, but also of the introduction of the registration tax on expropriations for public utility, a rule that will bring to its knees from 1 January 2014 the local authorities, the local authorities. What is the point of charging the registration tax for an expropriation in order to carry out a public work that serves all citizens? It is an absurd round, but it will oblige local authorities to revise their forecast budgets and probably not to implement many of the programmes that were in perspective. Let us think, for example, of how many small properties it goes to involve the expropriation on a road and consequently how much financial and bureaucratic commitment the introduction of the registration tax goes to produce. I have tabled an agenda on this subject not relating to this measure, but I hope that in the decree-law on simplifications or in some other government provision it will really be possible to remedy it. There are also a number of interesting rules in our legislation: I think, for example, of some new ones for the alienation of public heritage. We need to simplify the alienation of assets. I would also like to mention other simplification rules based on some considerations made by my colleague Lanzillotta, who spoke about the code of autonomy to be rewritten. I share some of the comments you have made, but I would also like to warn against excessive liberalisation, because the territorial services, the local railways and the companies that have been created to provide services to the territory give answers and not just represent expenses: indeed, if managed well they ensure savings of expenditure. So I would not want it to be made up of all the grass a bundle and that whenever we talk about societies and services on the territory we would see them as an expense, not, vice versa, as a resource, maybe with decades and decades of history behind us. We distinguish between the companies that manage virtuously, that know how to control their budgets and that respond to their own territory of their budgets (the theme of autonomy always and continuously returns), and those that instead are inefficient and should perhaps also be commissioners. I would also like to mention some rules on the disruption of the territory, a subject on which we must absolutely commit ourselves more. Finally, I would like to thank the Budget Commission for doing a very thorough job and it was also sensitive in listening to and accepting certain requests that were not really relevant to the measure. I would therefore like to thank both the rapporteur and the President of the Commission, in particular because they have accepted our agenda, which restores an unfortunate situation which has arisen in our regional territory with regard to the organisation of the Red Cross and which will enable, from 1 January 2014, to restore order and serenity in a voluntary system that has given so much, and still continues to give, to our territory. [[Applause from Senator Lanièce.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u39	Senator Broglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a major decree is before the House today which contains urgent financial measures in favour of regions and local authorities and localised interventions, which provides for the harmonization of accounting systems and deals with measures to regulate the financial relations of Rome Capital and the management of commissioners. The decree then aims to give concrete implementation to the so-called Pact for Rome of 4 August 2012, in the matter of integrated waste management. In addition, two provisions concerning, on the one hand, Expo 2015 (with a contribution of EUR 25 million to the Municipality of Milan for the year 2013), on the other hand, the necessary derogations from the legislation on the containment of public employment expenditure of entities subject to the Internal Stability Pact. Regarding the hydrogeological failure, the urgent resources for the integration of the Programme Agreement of 3 November 2010, concluded between the Ministry of the Environment and the Umbria region, are finalized, in which a series of interventions are planned to overcome the crisis situations in the territory. The decree introduces some changes to the single text of the local authorities in the matter of fiscal rebalancing in the institutions with population over 60,000 inhabitants. Paragraph 15 of Article 1 then ensures the performance of the activities and the continuity of the health service, avoiding paralysis in the provision of the essential levels of assistance to the persons assisted by the National Health Service due to the activation of the executive actions against health companies and hospitals, in the obvious purpose of guaranteeing the effectiveness of the constitutionally protected rights in the matter of health. Paragraph 16 of Article 1 provides that public administrations liable for sums due for administration, supply and procurement and for obligations relating to professional services shall, on the basis of data transmitted by creditors, also by electronic invoice, disclose the amount of payments. Article 2 of the Decree-Law in conversion deals instead with economic measures and measures in support of the territory. Paragraph 3 authorizes the Ministry of Economy and Finance to transfer in anticipation to ANAS the financial resources available for the year 2013 on the relevant budget chapter. There are also provisions on rail transport, on the Charter for purchases and on public buildings. It also provides for the year 2014 the recognition of the contribution to the operating costs and general costs of Italia Lavoro SpA to the Social Fund for Employment and Training. But if these are the main technical contents of the decree, we must analyze its political scope, namely the ability to intervene in a timely way to simplify and solve some of the many problems that Regions, Provinces and Municipalities have accumulated. From this point of view we must start to resolve upstream the problems that have generated and generate these dysfunctions, and to tell us once and for all that we can no longer extend the implementation of those reforms that allow a more modern institutional reorganization, with fewer institutional levels, simpler, than those clear and stable rules. Multi-annual certainty of the rules of the game is indispensable at all institutional levels to allow a serious programming of policies that have incisiveness and realize virtuous models. We hope to file quickly from this point of view 2013, where the need to keep the accounts in order, the clear political will to reduce taxation to businesses and citizens and the need to start processes of support to work, education and the need of those who are behind, have ended up translating into a fiscal uncertainty by local authorities on matters such as IMU and TARES that are putting the municipalities and citizens in crisis. Hence the need to speed up the institutional reordering plan. It is necessary to start again from the reorganization of functions, because only from the reorganization of functions can the passage descend from linear cuts to merit, the optimal dimension of the municipalities, the overcoming of the Provinces, the amalgamation of the Regions and a revisitation of the Ministries. But to do all this we need a great common work that legitimizes the role of politics and instead does not destroy it for low electoral ends that end up producing nothing good and creating a climate of constant tension and perennial electoral campaign. The Government, of which as a Democratic Party we are a broad expression, can and must continue to follow this path, starting from this majority, with those who are there and with all those who care about the fate of this country, giving up easy slogans but seriously addressing difficult, complex issues that require competence and fairness, because only in this way will we succeed in giving the answers that the Country needs. This is the role and mission of the Democratic Party and this is the reason for our presence, that of walking along this path. I shall end, Mr President, with a few words: I believe that the Senate has significantly improved the decree-law through the amendments adopted in the Commission, and I therefore feel I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Zanoni, and Mr Azzolini, for the work they have done, together with all the Commissioners. Among the amendments adopted in the Commission, I would like to highlight one in particular, which, if adopted in this House, will make the companies and families of the Emilia-Romagna territories affected by the 2012 earthquake a little more serene Christmas. This is the postponement of the first instalment of loans raised to pay the taxes and the three-year extension of the return plan. It is an important signal, which must be combined with other small signals given and to be given on all territories affected by natural disasters in our country, but which also brings us here to the need no longer to be postponed of a national framework law that regulates procedures in a certain and unique way. It can and must be done, because even by a more certain and simple system, accompanied by important support for prevention, the protection of the territory, the populations, the citizens and an important containment of public expenditure passes and passes. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u41	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u42	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u43	Mr President, Senators and Senators, I have listened very carefully to the speeches, in which some of the comments which have already been made in the Commission have been repeated and which have already been the subject of a number of replies. I would therefore like to thank all those who have spoken, whose contribution we will of course take into account; some of the speeches are absolutely acceptable (e.g. on legal jams and work-related difficulties). We will try to treasure it for the next steps.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u44	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u45	Mr President, I do not hide that many of the comments made during the general debate and also the concerns I have heard contain a certain amount of truth. It was an interesting, rich discussion, in some respects also an expression of renewed interest in the system of local authorities. It is indisputable, as Senator Lanzillotta said, that we are talking about a system in great difficulty. Among the many difficulties, I believe that there is one which, in particular, has its urgency: to restore some certainty to the system of local authorities. It seems to me excessive when we define this as a wrong and partly useless measure: it is not, and it was the same general discussion that nevertheless demonstrated the need to deal with, giving urgent answers, some emergencies. To limit it only to the matter of Rome Capital, as has sometimes been done, in my opinion it is a mistake. In fact - and I will say this - it is a measure which, in part, contains measures that are consistent with the needs and, in part, very strict in the procedures. I would like to give examples to make the idea of what measures I believe are consistent with the issues raised and, at the same time, the need to identify rigorous actions in order not to repeat the mistakes of the past. The Decree-Law under consideration provides, for example, a revolving fund for the granting of advances in the event of financial imbalances, with a view to granting cash advances. This is a measure which, in fact, currently represents one of the greatest demands of local authorities. Local authorities, in fact, today have serious problems in maintaining a financial balance, but there are also situations that put in difficulty the daily lives of local authorities precisely in relation to their cash capacity. A measure of this kind has therefore been identified: it is not a measure specifically affecting this or that local body, but it is a response to a strong question and represents the Government's effort to meet a fairly widespread need. The same applies to the need to support a return plan or to help find the resources needed to cover the costs of essential services to be offered to the community. I feel that I fully share the call that has been made on the need to be proud of our Capital, which represents the symbol of the unity of the Country. But, at the same time, when reference is made to Rome Capital and to the 115 million euros allocated to it, we must also have the ability to understand that, when we talk about Rome, as has been mentioned, we are talking about a Capital that has its complexity and its problems. It does not seem to me, therefore, that there are excesses of generosity on the part of the Government and in the measure: there is due attention. Of course, alongside this effort and this gesture of solidarity on the part of the country, we ask the government of our capital to make a serious effort to put structural interventions in place in order to bring the situation of the City of Rome back into balance. (at 12.14 p.m.) (BOCCI, Undersecretary of State for the Interior). At the same time, however, I would like to remind - and I address myself above all to some representatives of this Senate - that also the effort that the measure makes in favor of the City of Milan is made by the entire Country, because with the appointment of Expo 2015 we play the credibility of our Country. It therefore seems to me a gesture, a measure in line with a country's idea that, at a time when there are challenges that put the credibility of Italy at stake, on the part of the Government and Parliament there can be the necessary attention. When it comes to local authorities, it is argued that the greatest effort that we must make today - as Senator Lanzillotta herself pointed out in her speech - is, of course, to try to intervene in an organic, structural and systematic manner. The government shares this need, as well as the urgency of some reforms, including the reform of the autonomous code and, more generally, a reform that substantially reorganizes the system of local authorities and simplifies it. From this point of view, yesterday morning, at a hearing in the Parliamentary Commission on the implementation of fiscal federalism, we discussed the need to put measures and measures in place to substantially redesign the system of local authorities, especially in the light of the crisis we are going through and the difficulties that local authorities face in this context. I would therefore like to recall the Government's commitment to present to Parliament, in the first months of 2014, a comprehensive and systematic measure, as rightly claimed in some speeches. In this regard, I would remind you that a working group has been set up, together with the ANCI and the OPI, to define a set of rules, an articulated one, which is precisely to redesign some parts of the system, to restore some certainty to the system of local authorities and, above all, to put things back in order. It is not possible to think of having a system of local authorities that can look forward with optimism, if the forecast budgets, for example, are approved in November or December. It is clear that the budget must be a programming act, so it is necessary to return to the system of local authorities those certainties that put it in a position to adopt important instruments - which is, in fact, a budget - at the beginning of the financial year. This is the effort we are trying to make and we will do with some measures that we will bring to Parliament's attention in the very first months of the new year. It is a bit the answer to a question that I think is legitimate and that has also emerged today, during the general debate on the measure at our examination. That is why we are committed to giving those answers that have been urged to us today. Finally, I would like to ask the Budget Commission and my colleagues in the Senate to consider a suspension of work in order to deal with a whole series of issues which have been raised together and which, in part, are also dealt with in some of the amending and sub-emerging proposals.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u46	If there are no comments to the Government's request, the meeting shall be suspended until the end of the meeting of the Conference of Leaders, which shall be convened immediately. (The sitting was suspended at 12.19 p.m. and resumed at 1.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u47	Let's resume our work. The Conference of Leaders approved by a majority changes to this week's timetable. Today's afternoon session will continue the examination of the Decree-Law on urgent financial measures in favour of regions and local authorities. Tomorrow the Assembly will meet from 9 am, without suspension or closing hours, for the possible follow-up of the discussion of the decree-law Regions and local authorities and for the examination of the decree-law in the matter of IMU and Banca d'Italia. In order to enable urgent measures to be concluded by the end of this week, a sitting is planned - if necessary - also on Friday, starting at 9 a.m. The distribution of the times for the discussion of the decree-laws can take into account any disposals agreed between the Groups. The other topics already planned for this week will be examined on another date. Finally, the provisions for the discussion of financial documents are confirmed. CASINI (PI). So? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The forecast is that it will happen on Monday, because the House, President Casini, is still voting. Therefore, it remains the anticipation of the debate in this House on Monday, trusting in the work of the Committee on Budgets on Saturday and Sunday.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u48	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met this morning, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by a majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments to this week's timetable. [[Wednesday, December 18 pom. h. 16,30-20,30 - Drawing of law n. 1149 - Decree-Law n. 126, financial measures Regions and local authorities (Scade on 30 December) - Drawing of law n. 1188 - Decree-Law n. 133, IMU and Banca d'Italia (Final vote by 1 January 2014) (Scade on 29 January 2014) Thursday 19 " ant. h. 9 Friday 20 " ant. h. 9 (if necessary)]] [[Monday, 23 December ant. h. 10 - Drawings of law no. 1120-B and 1121-B - Stability Act 2014 and Budget Act 2014-2016 (Approved by the Senate) (Ove amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final votes with the presence of the quorum)]] Without prejudice to the different deadlines which could be communicated in relation to the timing of the transmission of financial documents by the House of Deputies, the Permanent Commissions will have to submit their reports to the Budget Committee by 1 p.m. on Saturday 21 December; the 5th Permanent Commission will report to the Assembly at its meeting on Monday 23 December. Amendments to the draft financial and budgetary legislation will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Sunday 22 December. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1149 (Decree-Law No 126, financial measures Regions and local authorities) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 32' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 54' NCD 41' LN-Aut 31' Mixed 30' PI 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1188 (Decree-Law No 133, IMU and Banca d'Italia) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 32' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. M5S 54' NCD 41' LN-Aut 31' Mixed 30' PI 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 29' GAL 28' SCP 26' Dissentents 5']] Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 1120-B and 1121-B (Stability 2014 and Budget 2014-2016) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 1 h. Minority Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 2 h. Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 05' FI-PdL XVII 43' M5S 38' NCD 29' LN-Aut 22' Mixed 22' PI 21' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 21' GAL 20' SCP 19' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u51	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, without dwelling on what we think about the use of the decree of urgency by this Government, which is not really able to produce anything else, being shocked by the fact that the IMU and Banca d'Italia themes have been so wisely put together in order to carry out a further theft to the Italian people, we kindly ask that the calendar be distributed as follows: Thursday morning, considering also the urgency and repeated requests from the 5 Star Movement, the motion of distrust be scheduled to Minister Cancellieri; since we want to help you and not insert two subjects so difficult, we postpone to Friday, different from what had been said at the Conference of the Leaders, the discussion of the motion for the resignation of Deputy Minister De Luca. We believe that the examination of the IMU decree, containing also the theft of Banca d'Italia, should be postponed to January, so that the Italians, constantly kept unprepared compared to what this Government manages to produce and how much we managed to steal from the Italian people, are properly informed of the further theft that they are suffering thanks to this Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u54	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we believe that IMU and Banca d'Italia should have been divided into at least two different measures. In the Commission, even with the tabling of amendments, we had asked for the deletion (we will request it with regard to the Bank of Italy), because it is not possible to make such an important historical reform, which will have extremely serious consequences, through an urgent decree, among other things approved by the Government on 30 November, knowing perfectly well that there were Christmas holidays. We think that we cannot examine it so quickly and quickly, because there is a need for all senators to have accurate knowledge and awareness of what they are called to vote on. For this reason, we believe that it would be necessary, Mr President (I think we will not end this debate today), to continue the examination of the local government decree tomorrow morning. Moreover, I have specifically asked several times for the session devoted to the inspection union to be resumed on Thursday afternoon, because the government never answers questions. Therefore the alternative proposal of the calendar is as follows: the examination of the decree IMU and Banca d'Italia is moved to the resumption of the intense activities after the Christmas holidays, tomorrow morning the discussion of the decree local authorities and the afternoon is dedicated to the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u57	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group also calls for the measure on the IMU and the Bank of Italy to be examined in January. Let us remember that it expires at the end of January. A very questionable criterion has already been used in the use of the instrument of the decree-law: this is not only an important measure, but it also has clear legal characteristics, and the conditions of necessity and urgency provided for in the Constitution do not apply. I therefore ask at least that the Senate examine it with a minimum of attention and not with the concern that is present these days. It would be very justified that we were here tonight for a decree-law which expired on December 30, but frankly, for such a delicate and so important measure, which expires at the end of January, obliging the Senate to a tour de force, not to read its cards and not to examine it would seem absurd. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u58	In order of presentation, there is first the proposal of Senator Taverna, who asked - I remind the Assembly - to discuss tomorrow morning the motion of distrust against the Minister of Justice Chancellors, to hold Friday morning sitting on the motion for the resignation of Deputy Minister De Luca and, consequently, that the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 133 of 2013 on IMU and Banca d'Italia be discussed in January. It seems to me that Senator De Petris' proposal, in essence, coincides. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then we shall vote separately on the proposals.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u61	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to clarify the matter for the vote. The proposal put forward by the President of the 5 Star Movement Group is very articulated: there are basically three requests for inclusion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is a proposal to change the calendar: the senator explained it in its organicity. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I know that. However, it is articulated in three new objects: the motion of distrust to Minister Chancellors, the motion for the resignation of Deputy Minister De Luca and the postponement of the discussion of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 133 of 2013. I would like to ask, Mr President, whether it is possible to vote on the proposal separately.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u62	No, Senator Palma. Keep in mind that on the postponement of the examination of the decree-law on IMU and Banca d'Italia we will return later, with the proposals of Senator De Petris and Senator Carraro. You cannot vote for separate parties, but you, as a senator, can make a proposal to change the timetable. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Great. Mr President, I would ask you to include Mr De Luca in the agenda of the motion for the resignation of Mr De Luca. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that. I shall put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings put forward by Senator Taverna. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We proceed to the vote on the proposal of Senator De Petris, who tends to restore the inspection union tomorrow afternoon, after the conclusion of the examination of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 126 of 2013, and discuss in January the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 133 of 2013. [[Comments of Senator Carraro]] Senator Carraro, this proposal of fact is analogous to what you have formulated, with which you have asked for a postponement of the treatment of the provision on IMU and Banca d'Italia in January, but nothing proposing on tomorrow afternoon, even if I imagine that it is not contrary to the conduct of the inspection union. Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). All right, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly put forward by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. At this point, the proposed amendment made by Senator Carraro is absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u65	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I apologise, but I believe that there has been a technical problem during the vote. I'd like to know the outcome of the counterproof, if possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u66	As far as I am concerned, I would not have problems frankly, but the Presidency is not obliged to declare the outcome of the counterproof. I assure you, however, that you can rest assured: it seems to me that the result was 136 to 114, according to my visual memory. I now put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly put forward by Senator Palma, which tends to include in the sitting on Thursday afternoon or, on Friday morning, at the conclusion of the examination of the measure introducing urgent financial measures in favour of regions and local authorities, which we will resume at the afternoon sitting, the motion for the resignation of the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Dr De Luca. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final. The examination of the measure introducing urgent financial measures in favour of regions and local authorities and interventions located in the territory will resume in the afternoon session today, at 16.30. Let us now turn to the speeches at the end of the sitting, which I would ask colleagues to do in accordance with the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u69	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am once again urging the Presidency, and through it, the Ministers responsible for the matter and the Government, to the fate of the 24 Italian families blocked in Congo. A week after my last speech in this House on this issue, it is particularly serious that the situation is still stagnating. On the contrary, the words of our ambassador to Kinshasa, who reported that the general direction of Congolese migration shows maximum closure on this problem, advising Italian couples to return to Italy without children; and those even more serious - I consider them such - used by Minister Kyenge last Friday in the House responding to an urgent questioning. I quote: I have kept and continue to maintain direct contacts, both formal and informal, with civil and religious authorities in Congo who may have some influence on decisions to overcome difficulties and to facilitate the work of our diplomacy. I consider this inadequate, disrespectful and perhaps unacceptable, because - I repeat here - these couples went to Congo with the permission of CAI, they did not go to Congo to the venture or like some illegal favour of private associations for which who knows what price they should have paid. These couples have the required documents and visas, real and official certifications signed by both competent and recognized bodies of the two countries. It cannot be argued that a lobbying action on the local realities exercised by a Minister of the Italian Republic could be the strategy for this crisis. There is a right and it must be respected, pursued and applied. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to make the entire Government aware of the need to finally open a direct channel with President Kabila for the solution of this intolerable situation and also to allow our fellow countrymen to celebrate the coming Holy Christmas here, in Italy, and perhaps with their children. ( [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Candiani).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u70	Senator Stefano, we will interpret your solicitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u73	BENCINI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the same issue as Senator Stefano. An urgent, if not urgent, issue that awaits a rapid solution. For more than a month the newspapers have been talking about 24 Italian adoptive families, others of 26 (it is not yet actually established how many these families are), blocked in the Democratic Republic of Congo in the impossibility to return to Italy with those children whom the same Congolese jurisprudence recognizes as their children. Italian couples and their children are experiencing an unacceptable condition. The parents left for the Democratic Republic of Congo after receiving the green light on 7 November from the authorized bodies and trusting the Italian adoption system chaired by Minister Kyenge. Minister Kyenge who stated that he had not encouraged anyone to leave but that, as President of the Commission for International Adoptions (CAI), returning from Kinshasa, in early November, he had announced that he had reached an agreement with the Congolese authorities and that the Directorate-General for Migration would compare with the embassy the list of adoptions considered to be "in rule" and for which permission to leave would therefore be granted. The Minister had taken the credit for unlocking the situation and the couples then left to go and pick up their children. A misunderstanding, perhaps? Bad communication? Unmaintained agreements? I don't know. In any case, the situation has now become critical. I have been personally informed of at least one case of malaria and therefore of alarming sanitary conditions. If they are in this situation, it is because of the superficiality of the bodies to which these families had to be entrusted. The blockade in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is clearly a political problem and we demand that our Government take action at its highest levels, also and at least, with the sending of its own Minister on the spot to verify the situation and make our fellow citizens feel the closeness of the State. Mr Laura Bignami has put a question and I have seen that she was not the only one, because also senators from other parties, such as Mr Lucherini, have lodged a question on this issue. Our citizens therefore do not want and should not feel abandoned. However, they did not appreciate the words of Minister Kyenge of last Friday 13 December, to which they wrote a letter of which I read an extract: We parents, forced to stay in the Republic of Congo, would have greatly appreciated his new intervention here, in person. Unfortunately, despite the proven regularity and completeness of our documentation, the situation now seems to be stalled, which does not allow us to return to our homeland with our children. We can only join in the request of these parents. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u76	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, as a signatory to a question on this issue, I think it is right to add my voice to that of my fellow Members who have spoken again about this issue. I do not want to aggravate the time of the sitting and therefore I will not dwell on the considerations put forward by others. I would just like to point out that I share the strong call to the Government for a decisive take-over of the matter and for the identification of a channel that can give certain answers in this situation. I think it is clear that this is due to our country and, first of all, to our fellow citizens: in this situation we cannot fail to show ourselves timely in defining a clear relationship with the Democratic Republic of Congo.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u79	GIOVANARDI (NCD). Mr President, having had the opportunity to chair for almost four years the Commission for International Adoptions, I know how complex and complex the problem of relations with the many countries with which the bodies and the Commissions have relations is. Of course, I do not feel that I bear any responsibility in situations like this which - I remind my colleagues - depend neither on the Italian Government, nor on the Commission nor on the bodies but on third countries. Thanks to experiences from other countries we know in fact that when they take an autonomous and sovereign position on their children (I remember that the Democratic Republic of Congo believes that they are Congolese and not Italian children), the activity to be carried out to review these decisions is very difficult. Three years ago we arranged a meeting with the Congolese delegation. We took them to Villa Doria Pamphili and there were children and families. On that occasion we had the Congolese authorities touch with their hands how well-treated their children were in Italy. The only thing I feel like saying is that Minister Kyenge, who also has the peculiarity of being native to that country, could actually take the invitation to go again (in truth, he has already done so) to that country to try, with yet another attempt by the Italian Government, to unlock the situation. If, however, after going back to the Democratic Republic of Congo, we should not succeed in the intention I do not think we can criminalize anyone because when dealing with third countries the only weapons we have are diplomacy and persuasion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u82	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, today I will make a request and to support my request I will refer back to the speech for the trust of Enrico Letta and in particular to the passage on populism, which I am going here to reread: "Colleghi," says Letta "the distinctive characteristic of populists is always inventing an enemy against whom to dump the indignation. Turning it into conflict (...) serves to avoid having to respond with credibility and seriousness to its actions. A strong policy of one's identity and ideals dialogues, discusses, fights, respects. The effort to be consistent with the dialogue and debate that I am asking you today is to respect internal rules: 75 days ago we filed a motion with sufficient signatures for an abbreviated procedure. A motion that speaks of an important subject, so dear to President Letta as it seems, since he mentioned the tragedy of the land of fires in his speech of 11 December last. Our motion 1-00156 talks about the Rome waste emergency and perhaps we should discuss it in order to prevent it from being too late, if it is not already too late. Rule 157, paragraph 3, of the Senate's Rules of Procedure reads: If the motion is signed by at least one fifth of the members of the Senate, it is discussed no later than the 30th day after the presentation, while more than twice as much has passed here. To this end, the President shall make use of the option provided for in Article 55 (6) by fixing, if necessary, an additional sitting. Why, then, is this institutional laziness when it comes to the 5 Star Movement? Are we the enemy of whom Enrico Letta spoke? Prove to us that you are not the populists. Proudly populists are we, you show us that you are willing to dialogue and respect the rules: schedule the urgent debate on our motion. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u85	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to ask the answer to a question on 18 July, 4-00581, an important act that wants to shed light on some of the professional tasks and trusts that have taken place in the municipality of Ercolano. It is important that citizens are familiar with certain passages. Therefore, we are asking the relevant ministers to deepen and shed light on it. It is therefore a reminder. Moreover, I want to share with you some situations that happen every day being on the street, among my people, which are actually also your people, because they are Italians; they are Italians who are in difficulty. I quote names, which are of course invented (but stories are not). Bruno, sixty-three years old, no longer has a job, he has a wife with cancer who unfortunately due to bureaucratic problems - at least according to Bruno - can not even get a pension. What does Bruno have to do? Then, Giovanni, a professional, who unfortunately for his problems and for the current crisis is losing all customers and fails to have a social shock absorber. He's a professional. Still, John (another John) is on the move, but soon mobility will also end, and therefore he will no longer have the opportunity to return; he is 55 years old and is trying to enter the world of work, but nothing in fact. In the bill of stability you have provided only 40 million - which represent just the cost of the photocopies of the Chamber of Deputies - to finally include in Italy the concept, which we are moving forward, of citizenship income; of course you have called it by another name (let it never be that something of the 5 Star Movement is used!), i.e. guaranteed minimum income. We have the income of citizenship, which means that we have a budget of EUR 20 billion - I repeat: EUR 20 billion - and the 5th Commission has even considered that the coverage envisaged is sufficient and adequate, even in its formal form. Then I say to you, when you wake up, ask us, ask for more information, discuss it... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u86	You can finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u87	PUGLIA (M5S). I conclude (President, I had something for you too) by stressing that we must introduce, once and for all, the income of citizenship in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u90	SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I did not have the opportunity to speak, because my friend and colleague from the Carraro Party spoke to express our Group's position on a very sensitive subject, namely the debate on draft law No 1188. We asked to postpone the examination of this measure to January, in order to give Members the opportunity to take a look at the text and to do work in the interests of the community. The reflection of my colleague Carraro and the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group was combined with what was proposed by the senators of the groups of the 5 Star and Mixed-SEL Movement, that is, with the request to postpone the examination of the measure in order to allow - I repeat - parliamentarians to take a full view of the text and understand perfectly what is being discussed. However, we have checked that, regardless of our political colors, a clear position has been adopted today: the majority voted against this request and said that by tomorrow morning we must vote on the draft law for the conversion of the IMU decree-law and the privatisation of the Bank of Italy. However, it is good that the citizens, but also the parliamentarians, remember an important fact. The privatization of the Bank of Italy begins with a government of the left, that is with the Government Amato; the second blow gives it Prodi, the third Letta. That is to say: to privatise fully the Bank of Italy is a government of the left, that government that says in every way... president. Tomorrow the discussion will take place with unlimited hours, Senator Scilipoti. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). ...to protect the interests of workers and who claim that the State comes before private interests. Today I realized, with great regret, that many parliamentarians who until yesterday were sitting next to me in the centre-right area intend to vote as the left for the immediate privatisation of the Bank of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u91	Thank you, Senator Scilipoti. Tomorrow we will examine the relevant measure and can, after this anticipation and with a larger audience, support incisive thesis. SCILIPOTI (FI-PdL XVII). Tomorrow we will have the opportunity to discuss, explain all the passages and understand... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-12-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-154.ana.u92	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.38 p.m.
