ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Question 3 00055 on the application of tax legislation to lyrical-symphonic foundations will be dealt with first. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this question, Senator Ghedini is asking for information on the possibility of taking legislative initiatives of genuine interpretation, or of an innovative nature, aimed at resolving the situation of lyrical-symphonic foundations with particular regard to the problems of taxing private contributions and the payment of IRAP on the FUS (Single Fund for Shows) contributions. I refer in this regard that the matter on which the interrogators claim elements has already been taken to the attention of this vigilant Administration and has also been explicitly appealed by the directors of a foundation to the Minister protempore for Article 25 of Legislative Decree no. 367 of 29 June 1996 under the heading "Tax provisions" to be supplemented with an express forecast of exemptions for the purposes of IRAP of all the proceeds of the lyrical-symphonic foundations. This theatre, in fact, following a dispute with the Revenue Agency, was affected by the decision of the Court of Cassation n. 24058 of 16 November 2011, cited by the interrogating senators, who affirmed the exclusion from imponibilità only in the presence of a specific forecast in the law establishing the correlation between the contribution and an indeducible negative component. The Supreme Court also adopted a decision on another theatre. These judgments were generated by a dispute which arose for a year prior to the entry into force of the Ministerial Decree of 29 October 2007 laying down new criteria and procedures for granting the FUS contribution to the sector. Moreover, especially during the period in which the theatres adopt the final budgets, they are asked for an administrative solution that allows not to burden the passive post of the budgets at least for the share of the contribution FUS, parameter according to the ministerial decree cited on the costs of the approved organic plants. A clarifying circular of this Ministry has therefore been invoked. However, it is not conceivable to issue a simple circular that emphasizes the correlation between the share of the FUS (to be precise the fraction equal to 96 percent of the quota of 65 percent, referred to in article 1, paragraph 1, letter a), of the ministerial decree) for the following reasons. It is well known, and has been reiterated by the Court of Cassation, that the legislative decree n. 446 of 1997, article 11, paragraph 3 (institution of the IRAP), in providing that the contributions paid under the law do not contribute to the determination of the tax base in case they are related to negative components not admitted in deduction, excludes the imponibilità only in the presence of a specific forecast, in the founding law, of the same correlation between the contribution and an undeductible negative component and that the contributions excluded from the tax base on income are also subject to the tax in question, except for different provisions of the laws establishing individual contributions or other special provisions. It follows that contributions made under the law, including those paid to financial institutions to meet the costs, including those for staff, must also be included in the calculation for the determination of the IRAP tax base. In other words, if it is true that Article 25 of Legislative Decree No 367 of 1996, exempting the proceeds of theatres from income taxes, could certainly not take account of a tax subsequently imposed (in 1997), and if it is true that the 1997 legislator did not take into account the field of opera foundations by not linking - as would have been desirable - a part of the State's contribution to the theatres of opera to a cost item such as that of staff, it follows today, according to the Cassation, the insufficiency of a simple ministerial decree, such as that of 2007, to operate such necessary and well expressed correlation and to send exempt the budgets of foundations from part of the tax. A direct and specific link is needed between the contribution to the coverage of these costs and the provision of deductibility for IRAP purposes. What the interrogators want, which surely meets the consideration of this Administration, also requires to the state of the acts a specific legislative intervention, since the limits of the delegation contained in Decree-Law 30 April 2010, n. 64, converted into law, with amendments, by Law 29 June 2010, n. 100, have not allowed to intervene in the drafting of the delegification regulation that is currently being approved. I would like to conclude by pointing out that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, which is well-heard of in this regard, has taken the view that the following should be noted. For the calculation of personnel costs for the purposes of determining the IRAP tax base according to the so-called commercial method, Article 5 (3) of Legislative Decree No 446 of 1997 provides, in general, that among the negative components they are not considered to be in deduction, among other things, the expenses for employees and assimilated classified in items other than the above mentioned item in point (b), n. 9, of Article 2425 of the Italian Civil Code. However, the following article 11, paragraph 1, letter a), n. 2, of the same decree n. 446 of 1997, in the wording currently in force, establishes, in favor, among other things, of the companies and commercial entities referred to in Article 73, paragraph 1, letters a) and b), of the TUIR (Single Income Tax Text), which is admitted in deduction in the determination of the IRAP tax base, an amount equal to 7,500 euros, on an annual basis, for each employee of indefinite time employed during the tax period, increased to 13,500 euros for female workers as well as for those under the age of 35 years. Therefore, being the cost of the employee employed for an indefinite period admitted in deduction for the purposes of calculating the IRAP tax base within the limits of the amounts provided for in Article 11, paragraph 1, letter a), n. 2, of Legislative Decree n. 446 of 1997, the exclusion from the IRAP tax base of contributions granted under law is to a full extent where the exclusion itself is provided for by the laws establishing individual contributions or by other provisions of a special nature or the contribution is totally correlated with negative components not deducted; for those granted against the costs of the employee, limited to the part related to the aforementioned costs that do not fall within the limits of deductibleness provided for in the aforementioned Article 11, paragraph 1, letter a), n. 2, of the IRAP decree.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u7	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Undersecretary. I am satisfied with the answer, but it was only because of the very unusual level of timeliness, because the question was put 15 days ago. I thank you for this, as well as for the technical completeness which, moreover, will require further consideration. On the substance, I am satisfied with the commitment to fully consider a problem that, with all evidence, according to the response that the Undersecretary has provided, requires regulatory intervention. We are at a stage in which lyric-symphonic foundations all face serious economic and financial difficulties and a regulatory framework that requires indispensable harmonisation and simplification, in order to avoid adding to a number of negative aspects. I am referring to the impossibility of fully lowering the private contributions on which the strongest expectation of the reform of opera theatres and the constitution of lyric-symphonic foundations was based. I am referring, of course, to the confirmation, unfortunately, of the impossibility to deduct from the IRAP base the most important part of the costs for the staff, as you have just told us, being quite clear that the most important costs of the lyrical-symphonic foundations can be nothing more than the costs for the staff. It is in fact founded on the presence of highly qualified and highly professionalized staff the ability of the theatres to realize their productions and to realize them in quality and in adequate quantity to justify, precisely for this way, the very existence of foundations, the usability of the cultural offer for the territories and for the national level. I conclude very quickly, of course, with a more precise examination of the answer, which has a very high technical content, asking that the interventions that the Ministry envisages take into account the necessary timeliness in relation to two events occurring, one of which unfortunately already passed. This response comes in the closure phase of the budgets. The regulatory changes needed before the budgeting phase for the new year and certainly before the drafting and conclusion of the new budgets will need to be considered and put into place. In addition, there is a clear and necessary temporal correlation with the terms of the FUS division: this concerns directly the problem highlighted by the question, because, if regulatory intervention is necessary for its solution, the timing for standardisation and for the possible implementation decree will have to be taken into account. I would like to thank the Ministry, Parliament and the lyrical-symphonic foundations themselves for their close cooperation so that the conditions can be fulfilled so that they can continue to support the activities of opera theatres which, on the other hand, risk moving towards a rapid and pernicious extinction.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u8	Questions 3 00013 and 3 00015 follow, on the transmission of the single income certification by INPS in telematic mode. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u9	Mr President, the interrogators draw attention to the rule of the Stability Act for 2013 which provided that, as from 2013, the INPS will release the single certification of earnings of employees, pensions and assimilated in telematic mode. In this regard, it should be noted that the aforementioned legislative provision aims to simplify the relationship between public administration and citizens, identifying for this purpose the most rapid and effective ways by which the needs of the different users can be met. The computerization of relations between public administration and citizens tends to recover efficiency by reducing delivery times and delivery costs. With reference to the telematic modalities, since February the INPS has made available the CUD model on its institutional website www.inps.it, in the section "Services to citizens" where the certificate can be viewed and printed by the user, after identification through the personal code of access to the online services of the Institute. In addition, to citizens with a certified e-mail address, known to the Institute, the CUD is delivered to the corresponding PEC box. Otherwise, citizens who have specified an ordinary e-mail address, at the request of the PIN, are sent by e-mail the information regarding the availability of the CUD on the website of the Institute. In addition, in view of the user segment that does not possess the equipment and skills necessary for the full use of online services, the INPS has prepared alternative and free channels to obtain the CUD in paper format, thus maintaining a physical access channel. The citizen may request and obtain in real time the delivery of the said certificate by going to the agencies of the Institute, which to this end have strengthened the front office, dedicating at least one quick desk to the paper release of the CUDs. In addition, in order to ensure maximum capillarity, all the structures present on the territory, including those of the suppressed INPDAP and ENPALS, issue - if requested by the user - such certification without distinction of social security management and without constraint of the place of residence. Secondly, there have been provision for self-service computer workstations specifically established in all the Istituto's territorial structures, where users with PIN can print the certificates in question, using, where necessary, the assistance of the staff of the RP. Users' easy access to these services is through the use of the health card or the national health card of the services. Finally, it is possible to obtain the release of the CUD through the patronage and tax assistance centres to which the citizen has given specific mandate. Interrogators are concerns about the impact that the new requirements could have on the weaker groups, such as the older sections of the population - probably less aware of the use of computer systems - and the disabled. In this regard, it is stressed that the Stability Act for 2013 has already provided for the right of the citizen to request the transmission of the CUD in paper form, according to the most traditional and usual method for INPS pensioners, and this in application of the express provision of law according to which it is the right of the citizen to request the transmission of the CUD in paper form. It should also be noted that, in order to balance the aims of efficiency and modernisation of public administration and to simplify relations with citizens with the needs of the user group that is in a condition of objective difficulty or impossibility to use the physical and telematic channels made available, the INPS has provided numerous alternatives, also free, to obtain the CUD. I recall, in particular, the mobile desk service, dedicated to over 80 year old users and pensioners residing abroad, through which users can contact an operator of the INPS headquarters territorially competent for the provision of different services, including the sending of the certification to their home as well as, the dispatch of the CUD to the home of the owner in compliance with the objective situations of difficulties represented by users, always at the request of the interested party, and the issue of the CUD to delegated person. Precisely in application of this forecast, it is clear from the data provided by the INPS that the Institute has so far delivered by post, in paper form, to all pensioners who have requested it, a total of about 1,050 000 CUD models. In addition to the channels described above, it is possible to obtain the CUD at the post offices belonging to the network "Friendship desk" that Poste Italiani has established in compliance with the project "Friendly networks" promoted in 2008 by the Ministry of Public Administration and Innovation, in order to facilitate the access of citizens to the services of public administration and to reduce the time of bureaucratic procedures. Since 2011 an agreement has been in force between the INPS and Poste Italiani pursuant to which these branches issue, for a fee to the user equal to 2.70 euros plus VAT, some certificates on behalf of the Institute, including the retired CUD and the CUD Insured. To date, there are 5,741 branches participating in the "Friendly Networks" project. And, in any case, it is emphasized that this paid issue channel of the CUD goes hand in hand with the additional free channels that I have described before. With reference to the specific solicitation of Senator Ghedini, regarding the possibility of an adequate information campaign, I recall that the INPS, on 26 February 2013, published Circular No 32, containing the full description of all access channels, telematic and physical, through which it is possible to obtain the CUD. The modalities made available for the withdrawal or transmission of the CUD have been illustrated in specific press releases and in numerous participations of representatives of the Institute in television and radio broadcasts. At local level, INPS structures contribute to the dissemination of instructions for obtaining the document. All existing and available communication channels are used in order to disseminate the information widely: from text messages to e-mail addresses that may be available, to offices, to the remaining other postal communications that have been issued until the whole month of February. At the same time, there is a strengthening of the promotion campaign of the PIN - a prerequisite for obtaining certificates in telematic mode - directly, through correspondence and through the offices, with specific information material. Finally, the evolution of the activities of issuing the certification of incomes has revealed how the structures of the Institute involved have worked synergistically in order to minimize the effects of this change on the users, facilitating the withdrawal of the CUD by the interested parties, with a view to maximum efficiency and effectiveness of the public action. To confirm this it may be useful to consider that, on the basis of data provided by the INPS, to date almost all pensioners who are required to submit the tax return have obtained their CUD through the various methods outlined above.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u12	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General and take note of her reply. Moreover, the procedures you described were partly known to me because they were the subject of INPS messages published after Circular 32 which takes into account the initial approach of the proposed procedure. While taking note of this, I note that several critical issues remain open, no longer significant compared to the requirements that must be carried out for this year. In fact, the deadline for the processing of income complaints is imminent - it is just over two weeks away - and we are, in fact, almost at the end of the process. I believe, however, that it is necessary to take into account the criticalities that remain open for next year. We agree with the implementation of all processes that can simplify and shift the procedures of public administration on the telematic axis, but it is quite clear that the dematerialization of processes and documents must not result in any inconvenience, much less burdens for users. It seems to me that some critical issues remain open, first and foremost the accessibility of information. This was the first theme highlighted: the information campaigns followed after the start of the procedure and therefore there was a latency. Not all of them, however, are accessible to the entire elderly population. The campaigns broadcast through television are perhaps the ones that best reach the target, but I believe that, especially among the elderly over eighty-five years old or in rural areas, even this medium has sometimes proved to be insufficient. I would add that at the date on which I submitted the question - at the end of March - even some of the subjects authorized to issue the CUD did not have sufficient information: the patrons, who are among the qualified persons, were not in possession of the information that could make it possible for them to exercise this option. It is therefore necessary to be more accurate not only in high-disclosure information, but also in the relationship with all parties with whom they are affiliated and qualified. From this point of view, the most significant question concerning the convention with Italian Posts is the persistence of the honesty of sending the CUD via the postal means, which is absolutely unacceptable. It is not possible that the process of dematerialization, which takes place in order to make the procedure more efficient and to reduce its honesty on the part of the State, will then discharge a burden on the citizens. This is not acceptable and I ask the Ministry to intervene within the framework of the agreement with Italian Posts in order to make it absolutely non-expensive. Finally, the procedure for the issue of the PIN by INPS (which, moreover, applies not only to this case, but also to many other obligations with regard to the Institute) is still difficult to access. Suffice it to say that not all INPS offices are enabled to release the PIN: for example, not many of the former INPDAP offices are still, but, for the user interface, they are actually INPS locations. This is not acceptable. It is also very uncomfortable the procedure used in many INPS locations, according to which, in order to get the activation of the PIN, you need to book and then access the branch several times to get the result.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u15	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General. The rule of the law of stability which is the subject of question 3 00015 concerning the transmission of the CUDs by electronic means, rather than simplifying the process, as was intended, in reality, in the very first few days and weeks of implementation, has greatly increased the hardships of a population that is already in itself extremely disadvantaged, very often marginalized and exasperated. I call on the Government to reflect on this and to carry out close monitoring in this regard. Our country is seriously affected by the so-called digital inequalities; especially the weakest sections of the population very often do not own a personal computer, much less an Internet connection. Often this phenomenon affects certain age groups: therefore, not only the weakest, but especially the oldest. Therefore, the category covered by this standard and its implementation by INPS, that of pensioners, had to cope with material and inconveniences to the standard itself. During the time between the submission of questions and this reply, as you said and thank you for that, a number of measures have been put in place to alleviate these inconveniences. I must say that this happened also thanks to the pressure that was immediately put in place by the trade associations and trade unions, who asked and obtained that tables of merit were opened on this issue, it was immediately very urgent: in front of so many INPS offices in our country, in fact, there were real demonstrations of pensioners. I think that the government's task is to ensure that what happened does not happen again, paying the greatest attention when introducing rules of this kind and taking into account that some sections of the population remain excluded from the possibility of telematic interlocation. Finally, recalling the words of Senator Ghedini, in addition to soliciting monitoring, I invite you to intervene on the honesty of sending by the CUD Post Office to pensioners of the public administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u16	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u19	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, today marks the anniversary of the massacre that took place in Capaci, Sicily. [[The Assembly stands.]] That bewildered and bewildered Sicily, which still mourns a hero of the community, Judge Giovanni Falcone, and invites to commemorate its memory. Figures like him and how few illustrious have taught us all the deep and true meaning of being part of a plan of capillary erosion, of dismoting the soil of corruption that allowed the mafia to consolidate its Venetian power. To us, Italy of the institutions, that man has reminded that the challenge is open every day, every moment in which we struggle for freedom from the chains of a system often married to some spheres worn out by the world of economy and finance, which appears to be rotten by time and rooted in a multiplicity of concepts, beliefs that comfort and revive it. Every moment we fight, we humbly try to honor its memory, undoing the hinges of the mafia's connivance, of that hidden force grown in the political belly. The policy, which we are called to represent in an honorable way, intends to apologise for the massacre announced in the corridors of the palaces of power, decided in the rooms of that real policy to put in place the most vile and hateful form of offense to the State, the only one able to make us sink into the depths of collective destabilization, that policy dressed in tears that at funerals, near and near, does not feel ashamed to cry before coffins. We will always carry with us that sense of Italian guilt for that lack of institutional embrace, which although too late we would like to give to his idea of State, forged in the sense of legality, so that our hero fought up to the exhaustion of moral forces and which is far from those representatives of a State that has abandoned him. Let us remember, however, that if there are still too many people who wear the clothes of Mafia power, there are many people who fight, change a historical era and help build hope in the future of our children. Figures like Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino have given the honor and dignity to those who want to continue this path until the victory of this war, that dignity found of the many who rest serene and who without shame look in the mirror, illuminated by the face of values, such as that of legality, that in the squares, and not only, passes into the hearts of the people we meet without fear every day, sure to humbly promise and keep all our commitment. Let us remember then on this occasion that we can win all together, committing ourselves to truth and justice, following the sense of legality that has been of this hero of ours, whom we welcome with pride; let us remember that together we can eradicate a disease that, while seeming endemic, does not belong to us and is not of the many who denounce firmly and to whom we of the 5 Star Movement feel therefore profoundly close. We therefore offer a final greeting to Giovanni Falcone, to his wife Francesca Morvillo and to his escort, Vito Schifani, Rocco Dicillo, Antonio Montinaro, as well as to all those who followed his teaching, thanking them again for being lived. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u20	The Presidency obviously supports the remembrance of Judge Falcone, his wife Morvillo and all his escort. Remembering that today the President of the Senate is participating in the commemorative events taking place in the city of Palermo, of course also representing the whole Assembly, I would like to invite all my colleagues to observe a minute of silence in memory of the victims of Capaci. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u23	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, although the official has already clarified the whole issue to me, I would like him to remain in the records that the Five Star Movement Group is present in almost all, while the House is totally deserted, and that does not seem nice to me when it comes to interrogators or interrogators. I therefore hope that for the next few times there will be some way of pointing out the presences and that you will be bringing the need to register attendance in these cases to the Presidency Council. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u24	I would like to point out to Senator Marton, of whom there are just over half the members, that today's sitting is devoted to questioning. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] These - as is well known - provide for a direct relationship between the individual Member of Parliament and the Government, without any debate being possible: the lack of participation in today's sitting cannot therefore be read in the light of the recalled consideration. As far as questions are concerned, I think it would be useful to recall, especially for those Members who have been in the Senate since this parliamentary term, the provisions relating to questions under Chapter XIX of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate (Articles 145 to 153): there are written questions (which are obviously not discussed either in the Chamber or in the Commission, but are limited to an exchange of letters between the Member of Parliament and the Government, which responds precisely in writing), those which take place in the Commission in oral form and those which take place orally, according to the choice of the answer that the honourable Member makes, in the Senate Chamber. The questioner, in this case, has the possibility of giving greater prominence to his speech, because the question, taking place in the Senate Chamber, with the oral response of the Government, takes on greater importance and therefore also the institutional communication circuit is more important. The other Members who are not interviewed would have no way of participating in the debate, nor is it said that they are interested in knowing the Government's answer or replying to the question that concerns the Member who addressed it, because they are interested in knowing the Government's opinion on that point. If Members wish to have information about it, the paper and all kinds of reports will enable individual Members to know the questions from the time they are submitted. Moreover, in addition to the Report, the sessions are distributed in various ways, including by television and via the satellite channel 525 on which they are retransmitted; in this way, anyone can know all about the questions. Therefore, the number of attendances is not significant because there is no vote or numerical feedback. After that, those who want to be present do so laudably and can be appreciated, but those who do not attend the questions are not responsible for any lack. I hope that I have responded to your comment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u25	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-28.ana.u26	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 28 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.42 a.m.
