ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.05 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u4	MUSSINI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. [[Ironic applause from Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u7	Mr Ghedini Rita (PD). Madam President, my fellow Members are as aware as I am that the work of some committees is still under way. Therefore, the request for verification of the quorum is absolutely incongruous at this time, as some colleagues are engaged in the Commissions. [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). They should not be summoned!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u8	We know. But we must take note of what we have been asked to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u9	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I'm gonna suspend the session for 20 minutes. MARINO Luigi (SCPI). Bravo! MUSSINI (M5S). It's a guarantee for everyone! (The sitting was suspended at 9.10 a.m. and resumed at 9.30 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u10	Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:31 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u13	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00160, tabled by Senator Mucchetti and other senators, and 1-00165, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators, on the corporate structure of Telecom Italia. I call Senator Cucchetti to explain motion No 160.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Representative of the Government... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, I call on the House to calm down and listen. MUCCHETTI (PD). The motion we are proposing to this House is based on the change in the control structures in Telecom Italia, a change that has been announced but has not yet been implemented. The purpose of the motion is to commit the Government to take as a matter of urgency, the utmost urgency, two measures which have a general value that goes beyond the Telecom case: one is the implementing decree of the golden power for communications; the other is the introduction of a second threshold for compulsory and totalitarian takeover bids. This act of address derives from the intense and timely work of the Commissions 8a and 10a. In this regard, I feel obliged to thank President Matteoli for his efforts in the direction of the work of the Commissions meeting. For the immediate perception of the importance of this act I would also like to thank the Heads of Group of PD, PdL, Civic Choice for Italy, GAL, Misto-SEL and Lega Nord, the four Vice Presidents of the Senate and all the colleagues who have signed their authoritative motion. On the golden power measure, the government took a first step. Well, but with a clarification: the country and this Parliament that represents it is certainly interested in the security of communications but also their technological and organizational development that derives from the regulation and the investment capacity of the owner of the network. The corporate perimeter will be the object of the golden power. The telecommunications network, as you know, is driven by copper and - above all - optical fibres, and the Internet; therefore, the physical network counts, but even more important are the technologies and software that govern the intelligence of the network. We will see in the Commission and in the House what the outcome of the government's work will be and what time it will have. Since the wait has already lasted for a year and a half, we urge the utmost urgency. On the second measure, the one relating to the takeover bid, the Government has left the floor to Parliament. We are grateful to you for that, but now we expect you to welcome this House's pressing call to defend savings invested in shares, given that savings are good - let us remember - protected by the Constitution; that saving that needs a modern financial market, adapted to the reality of the country called Italy and its need to attract foreign capital. The one called Destination Italy is an interesting policy measure, but in the execution you must know how to promote the real interests of an economy open to the world and not abstract theories that cover small interests of part. In the case of Telecom, for example, Telefónica intends to assume power in the former telecommunications monopoly, bringing no more 150 million euros from Spain to Italy. Someone will say that Telefónica will pay EUR 850 million to Generali, Mediobanca and Intesa Sanpaolo. Apart from the fact that 850 million would still be very few compared to a company worth 11 billion, but in any case Mr. Alierta, the head of Telefónica, will take out even less, because 700 of those 850 million were lent to Telefónica by the Italian banks, namely Mediobanca and Intesa Sanpaolo. It's the classic vendor loan: I buy you with your money. So, Mr. Alierta with 150 million Spanish source makes the big blow and nothing grants to minority members who hold 85% of Telecom's total capital. Unfortunately, it does so in compliance with a law that makes water. You know, with regard to foreign capital going and coming to Italy, that 52 percent of Telecom's capital is in the hands of foreign investors who are penalized by the lack of takeover bids and consider that 52 percent are 5 billion, so we count 150 million against 5 billion. If we want to talk about the attractiveness of foreign capitals, perhaps we must strike the old Italy of Chinese boxes and corporate pyramids instead of kneeling before the first that, Italian or not Italian that it is, of these pyramids and of these Chinese boxes takes advantage to take away at a vile price a great Italian enterprise still profitable. We're going to the O.P.A. The compulsory takeover bid for changes in control arrangements was introduced in 1998. It was chosen to trigger this obligation for anyone who exceeded 30 percent of ordinary capital, i.e. when in an entity already holding more than 30 percent but less than 50 percent, the control structures changed. A second bound threshold was not adopted... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, please lower your voice, because it is difficult to follow the illustration of the motion. Please, Senator Cucchetti. MUCCHETTI (PD). A second control threshold of less than 30% was not adopted in order to facilitate the smoothness of the control market. I would point out that, while savings are guaranteed by the Constitution, the control market is not; it is a commodity of secondary value compared to the protection of savings. But there's more. The fluidity of the control market as a good to protect prevailed, in the belief that the changes at the top nevertheless favored the success of the company and for this good, which is supposed to be general, sacrificed the shareholder minorities holding all together of the majority of the capital: in the case of Telecom, 85% of the capital. The history of this great Italian company, Telecom, with five revolutions mostly held within the same living room, is enough and advanced (just to see the debt of this society) to say that instability does not always benefit the enterprise; this is an ideological point, it is not a real point. So, there's no point in sacrificing the widespread savings invested in shares. Therefore, it is our duty to improve the norm by collecting the concerns on the single threshold that, with the mind turned to the Italian market, in their time, were also of Mario Draghi and Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa (some are forgetting). Minority members of several other large listed companies will benefit if they change their structure. We are talking about Mediobanca, Generali, Pirelli, many credit institutions, possibly companies with public participation in case the State reduces its share, today attested to around 30%. That is why we say that the motion before us is of general value: it starts with the Telecom case but thinks of Italy as a whole. Some commentators - we will say of sin, not of sinners - have criticized this modification of the legislation on compulsory takeover bids, imputing them a retroactive effect on the agreement between the partners of Telco on September 24. Unfortunately, they speak and write without reading well the contracts and not even the communications that summarize them. If they had, they would have reached the conclusions reached by CONSOB which, after all, is the institution responsible for the control of these transactions (we are neither the Government nor the newspapers). CONSOB has explained that, until the Spaniards have the right to vote on the new shares Telco, from them subscribed, the passage of the control cannot be said to be executed. Therefore, the amendment of the OPA law cannot have retroactive effects on an agreement that in the state is only a promise between members, subject to numerous suspensive clauses and the authorization of the authorities and governments of Brazil and Argentina. Perhaps these commentators, so thoughtful of the fates of the excellent members of large companies, would do better to demand that Telecom Italia's board of directors rigorously observe the rules on conflicts of interest when it is called upon to ratify the agreements reached by the management on Tim Brasil and Telecom Argentina. Sales agreements or "spezzatino" agreements, to which a Telecom Italia license plate Telefónica would be forced due to the antitrust problems of its member Telefónica. Well, all the advisers appointed by Telco, i.e. the four fifths of the board of directors, are in conflict with interest and, if they have style, they should refrain from giving the floor to the three advisors of minorities. Or, these advisors and commentators quote Lord Cadbury, the theorist of corporate governance, only in conferences: Do what I tell you, but not what I do. (9.42 a.m.) (Follow Muccheetti). The motion before us today calls on the Government to give rapid, including through the urgent decree, the will of Parliament on both the golden power and the compulsory takeover bid. This is not the usual appeal to do quickly and well. The agreements in South America - so let us say it all - can be reached in a few days, and the allocation of voting rights to the actions of the Spaniards can therefore be anticipated, thereby determining the passage of control even before the deadline of 1 January 2014 (this is the problem); which would then credit the charge of retroactivity, now unfounded, aimed at the reform of the takeover bid that we want to pursue. For this reason, to postpone decisions to deepen a matter on which everything is already known would be a way to give free, without assuming public responsibility, the transfer of de facto control of Telecom with a net cash flow to Italy from Spain of 150 million. Whoever has signed this motion - let me say this on behalf of so many senators of different political affiliations, but united in defending national interest without out-of-time nationalisms - is sure that the Government will give strong and loyal implementation to the will of the Senate. I see undersecretary De Camillis here, whom I greet and thank once again. I would have hoped that there had also been the presence of a representative of the Ministry of Economy, which is the Ministry directly concerned by the competence of the issues on the takeover bid that we have placed. We do not want to think that there is an act of scant consideration of the Senate, because - let us remember - here and in the Chamber has the seat of legislative power, while the Government has the seat of executive power. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u15	The Presidency considers that Senator Cucchetti's considerations on the presence of a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs are absolutely well founded. Of course, the Government is authoritatively represented by the Undersecretary De Camillis; but I hope that, even listening to these considerations, someone will give this debate the attention that the importance of the issue demands. I call Senator Ciampolillo to explain motion No 165.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u16	Mr President, distinguished colleagues, illustrious Undersecretary, as the 5 Star Movement has already had the opportunity to denounce, Telecom, the largest Italian telecommunications company, is about to be sold off to a Spanish company, heavily indebted and unable, at least to the state, to offer a future for the development of the sector, especially with regard to the network. The risk, moreover, is to disperse a valuable wealth of knowledge and skills, offered today by Telecom Italia, with enormous risks in terms of employment. To date there are no known initiatives that the Government intends to take to avoid this. In particular, we do not understand what initiatives the Government has in mind to promote to ensure the dissemination and development of the network, an instrument now indispensable to guarantee democracy and equality in Italy. Every citizen, in every corner of the country he lives, has the right to use the network in the same way and is entitled to efficient, modern and safe technology. The State has a duty to ensure that essential and fundamental goods for the development of the person are available to all citizens. Among these assets there is also the network. We believe that it must be public, or in any case under public control, and that in any case it certainly cannot be entrusted to an uncertain foreign society. It is a fundamental issue for democracy, freedom and substantial equality between all citizens and, more generally, for the economic development of the country and its businesses. Italy is also very late with the objectives set by the European Digital Agency, especially in the area of new generation fibre networks. On these issues the institutions and politics cannot remain inert, but they have a duty to assume their responsibilities. Unfortunately, the first positions of the President-in-Office of the Council, which are very general and timid on this point, have cast a left shadow on the future of communications in Italy. To this incomprehensible immobility, the 5 Star Movement has immediately reacted and intends to oppose with every democratic means available, in order to guarantee to each citizen the respect of its fundamental rights and to give to the country the hope of a better, modern and efficient future. In this context, the current motion is inserted. It aims precisely, in the awareness of the strategic importance of the matter under consideration, to commit the Government to guarantee the respect of these rights, ensuring the public control of the network and, in a broader perspective, also referring to the whole of the areas of similar strategic importance for the country, with the appropriate modification of the current regulation in the matter of takeover bids. Therefore, according to this motion, it is suggested that within the framework of the communications system, the dissemination and development of the "network" are indispensable tools for ensuring equality, freedom and democracy in Italy; that every citizen has the right to have an efficient, modern and secure network; that the State has the duty to ensure that the essential and fundamental goods for the development of the person are available to all citizens; that among these goods there is undoubtedly the network. It is also pointed out that the telecommunications system constitutes an area of undoubted strategic importance for the economic and social development of the country, also in view of the multiplier effect on the gross domestic product of investments for the new generation fibre networks and that, within the framework of the European Union's initiatives on telecommunications presented in May 2010, Italy has accumulated a significant infrastructure delay vis-à-vis other European countries as regards the achievement of the objectives set by the European Digital Agenda, transposed into national law through the law of 4 April 2012, n.35. The following is also considered: Telecom Italia is one of the few large Italian companies with global potential development, which in our country controls and manages the telecommunications networks, and which is one of the main Italian infrastructures. On 24 September 2013 an agreement was signed between the shareholders of Telco, which should allow in the near future the acquisition by Telefónica España shareholder of the majority of the shares, and therefore the ownership of the de facto control, of Telecom Italia, of which Telco holds about 22% of the shares. Telco took over the participation in Telecom Italia by the company Olimpia which, at the time, had exercised its control of it in fact (as demonstrated by the outcome of the meetings of the period from 2002 to 2007), a situation of control demonstrated in fact also by the award that Telco paid to the shareholders of Olimpia with respect to the current quotations of Telecom Italia and that now Telefónica promises to pay to the other members in Telco, in execution of the agreement reached between them on 24 September. According to this agreement, the absolute majority of votes will be changed in Telco itself, and therefore the de facto control of Telecom Italia will pass into the hands of Telefónica, without any public offer of purchase (OPA) addressed to the other holders of ordinary shares Telecom Italia and to the holders of the savings shares of the company itself. The implementation of the agreement is subject to the opinion of the regulatory authorities and governments of Brazil and Argentina and therefore the allocation of voting rights to the new shares acquired by Telefónica may take place not before 1 January 2014. It is also considered in the motion that Decree-Law No 21 of 15 March 2012 laying down special rules on corporate structure in the fields of defence and national security, as well as for activities of strategic importance in the fields of energy, transport and communications, converted, with amendments, by Law No 56 of 11 May 2012, provides for the adoption by the Government of a series of implementing regulations, starting from what identifies networks and installations, including those necessary to ensure the minimum supply and operation of essential public services, goods and relations of strategic importance for the national interest in the fields of energy, transport and communications, as well as the type of acts or transactions within the same group to which the special discipline does not apply. In the motion it is also noted that the Government has recently adopted a draft decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, updating the previous decree of the President of the Council of Ministers 30 November 2012, n. 253, containing the regulation that identifies the activities of strategic importance for the system of defence and national security for which the exercise of these special powers is possible. This update also included networks and facilities used to provide end-users with access to universal service and broadband and ultra-wide services. It should also be considered that the legislation on takeover bids, established by the Single Finance Act (TUF) referred to in Legislative Decree No. 58 of 1998, and subsequent amendments, has as its main objective the protection of the equity investment by Italian and foreign savers and institutional investors compared to the decisions of the majority shareholders and that for this purpose the legislator has established that whoever purchases shares above a certain threshold is obliged to launch an takeover bid addressed to all shareholders. The same obligation is also determined when you change the absolute majority within a company or an agreement that controls a participation already above the threshold. It is also pointed out that the current single threshold of 30% is effective in the case of listed capital companies spread in very small shares, while it is not effective when within a split equity group there is a dominant company or pact in any case in the assemblies. In this context, it should be considered that the Telco Agreement constitutes yet another episode of exclusion of minority shareholders, in this case representing 85% of the total capital, from those benefits that the OPA legislation would like to guarantee them; that any amendment of the OPA legislation should not have retroactive effects compared to an agreement far from being enforceable, as CONSOB itself recognised in the informal hearing of its President before the 8th and 10th Senate Commissions on 26 September 2013; that the European Union directives require that a threshold for compulsory OPA be established, but that Member States be given its determination; that in Europe one State, Hungary, has two thresholds at fixed percentages, while four States (Spain, the Czech Republic, Denmark and Estonia) have a fixed percentage threshold and another variable percentage, linked to de facto control; that it is necessary and urgent to update the TUF rules in order to improve the functioning of the Italian financial market. Indeed, the 30% single threshold was at the time identified in the belief that it would favour the control market where no one had any interest in launching an takeover bid. This motion commits the Government to act in order to introduce, with the utmost urgency, also through the adoption of a special decree-law, the necessary modifications to the TUF, in order to strengthen the powers of control of CONSOB in ascertaining the existence of de facto control situations by individual members or in concert with each other, in line with the decisions already taken by CONSOB itself in similar cases; to add to the fixed threshold of 30%, already foreseen for the compulsory takeover bid, a second threshold linked to the verified situation of control in fact; to complete, within the maximum period of 30 days, the adoption of the implementing regulations referred to in Decree-Law No 21 of 2012, in particular with regard to the exercise by the State of the golden rule in the case of enterprises of strategic interest, especially when infrastructure is at stake from which the security of the country depends; to ensure a faster development of the networks of new generation in fiber, consistent with the objectives set by the European Digital Agency; to ensure full protection and exploitation of the employment and the freedom of knowledge and competences of the country depends on; to ensure, in any case, the essential to ensure the promotion of the public rights, in any case, which are aimed at all of the network, in order, in order, in order, in order, in order, in order, in order, in order, in order to introduce, with the objectives, with the objectives, with the objectives, with the European Agency, with the objectives, with the European Agency, with the utmost urgency, with the utmost, with the necessary, with the objectives, with the objectives, and in order, Finally, the hope is that politics can provide concrete answers to the real needs of citizens and the country, in the awareness of the strategic importance of the entire communications system, for national economic development and for the protection and promotion of fundamental rights of equality, freedom and democracy. This is the meaning of this motion, this is the logic that moves the initiatives of the 5 Star Movement, for the good of the citizens and our communities. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u17	I declare the debate open. Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is bitter to consider that the only balances that work in our country are made at the expense of the industrial and strategic system and of the perspectives of the Italian system not only in an internal key and in relation to the necessary conditions of development, but also at a global level. It is also bitter to consider how great is the gap of awareness of politics and, more precisely, of the Executive of our country with regard to this. In fact, I fully agree with the positive judgement of the Presidents of the Commissions and the recognition of the hard work of these days to bring us to this motion quickly, so that we can take a position that gives an address to the Government. But I cannot and cannot forget, when the information came hot and the newspapers put on the front page what had happened, the inadequacy of the Government's statements and acts in saying that it was private enterprise, on which very few were the possibilities and the margins for manoeuvre of the public institutions, Parliament and Executive. I do not know how much the Commission has helped to break down the scope of the value and role that the institutions, Parliament and the Government must play on this matter. In the illustration of President Cucchetti - in which I acknowledge myself - of motion No 160 a review of the events was made. I do not find myself in the basic optimism that accompanies the report by President Cucchetti, and the absence of the Minister, as well as of the Executive in general, does not help me in this regard. Today, however, and since today, if we approve the motion, we have an instrument that obliges us to assume responsibilities that do not end up in the development of appropriate and appropriate measures and laws. For the Government it means starting a policy that has not yet been announced, which must be undertaken in such a way as to indicate ideas, behaviours and actions on the strategic industrial system of our country. It seems to me that miserably terms the era of brave captains in the nerve points of our industrial system: those who, when they did not pass through the prisons, have manifested their whole distance from the interests of the country, from having at heart a system of development of our strategic structure. Telecom, Finmeccanica, Alitalia: a list of terrible disabilities that weigh directly on tens of thousands of workers and workers and, if we consider the induced, on hundreds of thousands of families, and overall on our country, as strategic activities. Think that the Commission of which I am a member and of which I recognized the work, starting with the one carried out by the Presidency, had listened a few days earlier at the hearing to the President of Telecom, who had illustrated a whole series of plans and projects that absolutely excluded what happened, and that, the next day, again, in a timely hearing, the President himself told us that he had only learned from the newspapers what had happened, namely the entry of Telefónica into the Telecom strategic facility, with two euros (to understand us), obtaining complete and total control of the network, with implications even on the security and transparency of our country and on the markets, starting with those valuable ones like Brazil and Argentina where Telefónica is direct competitor of Telecom. In short, this inability can only seriously worry Parliament, as the country is concerned. This must therefore certainly be our first commitment. We have not reasoned about small cabotage in the face of dramas of this kind in which our country can run and we have signed the motion that goes in this direction, but as I said we are not moved by optimism. I believe that all useful actions will have to be put in place just as quickly so that we proceed along the established path in an appropriate, clear, determined and fast way, in order to achieve an overall reversal of the strategic lines, which are currently non-existent in the plans of the Commission, in relation to the complex of the industrial system. I believe that in this sense we all have a responsibility, and also the possibility of putting ourselves to the test, each one for the different responsibilities of majority and opposition, but each one must be called to consistent behavior in all the places where our determined, continuous and daily commitment will have to be manifested. We are talking in fact, in general in our country, but in particular in the Roman and Lazio area, of tens of thousands of quality jobs that are dramatically questioned. Everyone should have a great deal of responsibility in the face of this drama. We have not seen it until today, except in the work of the Commissions, but we have this possibility to close that phase in which everyone turns to the other side and to start a new path: if there is the will, there is all the availability of our opposition force. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u19	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, the motion that the Senate House is considering today is the result of important work carried out in recent weeks by the Commission on public works and communications, together with the Industry, Trade and Tourism Commission. It should be remembered, in fact, that following the first news, received on 24 September, about the changes of the company pacts within Telco, a company that holds the control of Telecom Italia, the two Commissions held, within a little less than 48 hours, a series of hearings that immediately allowed to have an exhaustive picture of the new situation that was being created compared to the structure of the Telecom group. Among these, I recall the hearing of the then Executive President Franco Bernabé, the Deputy Minister for Economic Development Cattricalà, the President of CONSOB Vegas and the Undersecretary for the Economy Giorgetti. I therefore think it is important here to stress the timely action taken by the two Commission presidents, Senator Matteoli and Senator Mucchetti, supported in this by the vast majority of the colleagues of the two Commissions. The Telecom Italia affair is one of the main industrial issues on which I believe that we are all called to reflect in these hours. It is, in fact, not only a large company, which has been able to face international markets, but also a company that daily provides Italian citizens with a series of strategic services, competing with other operators, mainly foreign capitals, and is currently the holder of an infrastructure that we all have to consider strategic for the country system. This infrastructure, in fact, and its development in the coming years, will depend on a significant share of our country's economic development. The motion, which sees a cross-cutting consensus between the various parliamentary groups, has taken its cue, as was said, from the Telecom case where - as everyone knows - a transitional phase is under way which should lead in the coming months, presumably from 1 January next year, to a change in the control of corporate structures. The hearings held, however (in particular, I refer to the contribution made by the President of CONSOB), have allowed to broaden the view on issues of a more general nature, not therefore focusing only on the specific case. In particular, I believe that one of the most useful elements highlighted by the hearings, which essentially represents the architrave of the motion, concerns the need to quickly achieve an improvement of the current legislation of the Single Finance Text, dating back to 1998, in order to strengthen the existing legislation with the introduction of more instruments for the protection of small savers. This is in fact the main objective underlying the regulation of the Single Finance Text, which had precisely the aim of encouraging small savers to invest in equity markets, but having as a polar star the constitutionally established value of the protection of savings. Today, with the aim of pursuing the same result, the legislation should be updated, precisely because we have had the opportunity to record in recent years several cases, perhaps too many, in which the legislation on the takeover bid has in fact been bypassed revealing itself deficit in relation precisely to the protection of minority members who, as is known, often hold, through a pulverized capital, the majority of the capitals of listed companies. This is why, among the commitments on which the Government wishes to bind, there is an overall strengthening of the powers of CONSOB in ascertaining the existence of de facto control situations by individual members or in concert with each other, in line with the decisions already taken by CONSOB itself in similar cases. This should be accompanied by the introduction of a second threshold, to be added to the fixed threshold of 30%, already foreseen for compulsory takeover bids, which would trigger a de facto control situation once it has been established. This is a solution, among other things, already adopted by several European countries, including Spain. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, the objective of ensuring as a matter of urgency greater guarantees for small shareholders, in order to protect their savings, has obviously led almost all of the parliamentary groups to sign the motion that we are considering. The government's commitments are strict, as is normal in these cases. The hope, therefore, is that once this motion has been adopted today, with a broad consensus, the Commission will take immediate action, through the adoption of an emergency measure which we believe is necessary, in this way following the path set out by Parliament. We senators, who ask for this commitment to the Government, the Senate and the Parliament all, will then in the next few hours, on the basis of the recorded sharing, adopt all the useful initiatives to pursue together, each for its own part, the general interest of the country. [[Applause from Senator D'Onghia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u21	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to begin by reading the last words of the report by Deputy Minister Cattricalà during a series of hearings in the 8th and 10th Commissions. This government report is interesting because, speaking of Telecom, it concludes with the following words: "Just a bad epilogue of a wrong privatisation." It's nice to hear from the government that we were wrong to privatise Telecom! Perhaps we have noticed a little too late what the policy of privatization in our country has meant, done more than that, like that of Telecom. As we know (it is always better to remember the story), the Telecom company was bought at the expense of Telecom itself. (at 10.13 a.m.) (Followed by CIOFFI). It would be good to remember what happened; I quote Roberto Colaninno, a name known to a part of Parliament, and then also Tronchetti Provera. These gentlemen took Telecom at the expense of Telecom, and they created a nice hole in it. We are talking about privatising state companies, and we are talking about this a lot these days: we hear from the Ministry of Economy that we have to make cash, that there are no resources. We are talking about selling what we have of ENI, ENEL, Finmeccanica and Terna. We'll keep selling what little we have left. It would therefore be good to reflect when we privatise something, to understand what might happen, given what actually happens. We are not talking about Italianity, which was discussed so much at the time of Alitalia, and the brave captains. I remember two of them being sent to the prison patrie. But look what happens, and what we do with state money, how well we manage these, which are then of all citizens! We have done this in the past and now we remember that we have to do something. We remember that perhaps, if someone wants a company, it is good that he throws out the money and buys it, Italian or not, as it is right that it is: if we wanted the market and want the rules of the market, it will be good to respect them, because it is not possible that with a minority share you control a company. Then we want to see a second threshold - right - but perhaps we remember a little too late to do so. Perhaps politics is always behind schedule, and this is a profound evil with which, unfortunately, we have always been in contact. Politics is always late, it always comes too late, and that makes us feel bad. Politics should be that beautiful thing that allows us to predict the future and development and should anticipate the systems to prevent them from happening unscathed. On the contrary, politics is always late. We are trying to be present here; we have just arrived: we are trying to keep all the attention alive so that politics can resume that important role that it must have in order to anticipate situations. Turning back to the issue of Telecom, President Cucchetti and all of us have already spoken about it at the meetings of the Commissions. We want to block the Chinese box system, well, it's also part of the 5 Star Movement program. I repeat, however, that we are late, and that makes us very sick. Then we note that, according to the agreements, Telefónica buys a part of Telco - we know - without changing the shares in Telecom, and therefore always with 22% and little more, and pays to the other shareholders of Telco almost twice the market value. Who's he paying you to? The banks? Mediobanca, Generali? Why do banks, who are always present to dominus, take twice as much money as ordinary citizens? In our motion we added a very important point: the network, the infrastructure, and of course both the material and the immaterial, the software to manage the line. It is a primary asset of the citizens, we have said so and we continue to say so. We want him to remain under public control, considering the possibility of making it public, after an analysis of the costs and benefits, to understand if it is worth it. It is important to think about these issues. What makes us feel bad - I have already said - is what happens, it is history. We have arrived late and this must not be repeated. I hope that we will all be able to have a long-term, prospective vision, hoping to imagine what Italy will be and must be when it is twenty years old. For example, I would remind you that a French President set up a committee, including an Italian, Attali, to whom he made a request. I would point out that it was not the wise men who had to make the Constitution and tell us the banality we heard yesterday. He asked them: what will Europe be like for thirty years? Because I have to do politics. Then, perhaps there is no need for a group of enlightened people to say what Europe will be like, but it is a good idea that a number of people are needed to make politics that give a long-term perspective. We have lost it here, and this is what constantly and continuously grabs our choices. If we don't have that perspective, how do we choose, decide something? This afternoon we will talk about the gas, the TAP project; We will repeat these things, on another field, but the problem is always the same. We must have the courage to have a very long, very strong perspective and in this way plan legislative action to aim for that objective. This is what we need to do: we needed the Telecom affair to do something we should have done 15 years ago. All right, let's do it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let us realise that we must also work on infrastructure. Let's do these things, but let's try to have a vision even at long range, avoiding to always have the breath short, because otherwise here we all die and the country doesn't go anywhere. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u23	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u24	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, in thanking Mr De Camillis for his presence in this Chamber, I must say that it is truly surprising, with regard to the importance and transversality of the motion - there are two of them, but I am referring to what Senators Mucchetti, Matteoli, Zanda and Schifani have first signed, which I myself have signed - the inattention of the Government. I hope that Mr De Camillis, although he is not of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, will have elements of clarity, also because the motion deals with an issue that the Government is dealing with, at least from what we understand: that of possible regulations concerning the golden rule, therefore the possibility of constraints, limits and safeguards of strategic interests. This would have been - but perhaps it will be - an opportunity to have a few more elements in Parliament. Then, too, on the whole issue of Telecom and the takeover bid and all the problems that the motion raises, I believe that a confrontation with the Government would be indispensable. However, since the numbers in Parliament, at least judging by the signatures, are there, we believe that this act of direction will have to produce effects. The Telecom affair, of which Senator Cucchetti, myself and many others have dealt, in different roles, in these years is a long and complex story, but the motion points to a more comprehensive strategic choice: to review the rules of the takeover bid with reference to the control of the companies so that not only the threshold of 30% of the share ownership is changed, but also a de facto control that with the game of the Chinese boxes is realized. This concerns not only Telecom, but all companies, the market and its increased transparency to protect small savers above all and respect for investor savings. And it is not true that this proposal comes late, because all the company adjustments concerning the Telecom affair will take place in 2014 and, during the hearings properly promoted in the Senate by the Commission public works, transport and telecommunications and by the Commission industry, commerce and tourism, presided respectively by Senators Matteoli and Mucchetti, also the president of CONSOB Vegas has declared himself in favour of reviewing this rule. And if anyone who exercises control over companies and the stock exchange says so, I think we move from an absolutely orthodox and transparent perspective. I would also like to reiterate, within the few minutes of my speech, the issue of the network and what needs to be done. Because, if our proposals for revision of the legislation are related to all companies and certainly start from a striking case in which the capital increase would have been a moment of transparency, there is also the issue of the net and the risk of stewing it. Just read today's newspapers to see how Telefónica, the Spanish telecommunications company that would take control without capital increases and without investment, aims to control TIM Brazil. I don't have time for a detailed illustration of what can happen to a large group. We are not here with a protectionist vision, although we could certainly say a lot about the events and the debt of Telecom, which has been inflating for a whole series of events, starting with the climbs of the brave captains, sponsored - this has to be said - by some representatives of Italian politics and the Italian left, from which troubles and disasters have begun. Let us not forget the right privatisations, however poorly implemented. We still remember the hard peanuts that controlled Telecom even before the climbed Democratic Party, when with an infinitesimal percentage of actions it was thought to control the group. An Italian story that has therefore been badly set from the beginning and that probably then some private entrepreneurs did not have the strength to raise. That said, as far as the network is concerned, I have been fighting for years to set up a network company. There can be no expropriation or nationalisation: a company to which Telecom provides the network should be set up and the economic value of this contribution recognised: a company subject to the regulation of the Authority for the guarantees in communications and within which other market operators will then be able to bring together other pieces of network. Such a company, with very clear rules and strict control by the Authority for Communications Guarantees, would allow to maintain a national control over this fundamental strategic structure. It should not be forgotten, in fact, that the telecommunications network is used by everyone. Travelling by car, one could spend the whole life without using the railway network; vice versa, traveling only by train, one could spend the whole life without using the highways. The fixed or mobile telecommunications network, on the other hand, everyone uses it. Many citizens often do not realize that they are connected to a telematic network when they speak to a fixed or mobile phone: for example, they do not realize what is behind that possibility of connection and freedom: behind this there is a fundamental heritage, and also the issues of security and those related to the strategicity of this heritage must be addressed. Therefore, the motion under discussion today, which aims above all to change the rules of the takeover bid and to ensure greater protection of the market and transparency, obviously does not ignore the issues of the network, on which we would expect more clarity, more courage and greater capacity to address certain issues, starting with the same President of the Council, Enrico Letta, who is well aware of these matters, on which many times he has tried and compared himself. I believe that the government's futility on these issues is intolerable. In this case, Parliament is replacing itself with a lack of initiative. In any case, if the motion we are debating today is adopted, our task will be to proceed immediately to those legislative adjustments that Parliament, with today's vote, could indicate to the whole country. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u25	The Senate greets the students, the students and the teaching staff of the Institute of Higher Education Giovan Battista Impallomeni in Milazzo, in the province of Messina. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u26	The debate is closed. I call on the representative of the Government to speak, and I would also ask her to give her an opinion on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u27	Madam President, Senators, with motion 1-00160, tabled by Senator Mucchetti and other senators, and motion 1-00165, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators, on Telecom Italia's corporate structure, tends to commit the Government to take action in order to introduce, as a matter of urgency, also through the adoption of a special decree-law, the necessary changes to the TUF, in order to strengthen CONSOB's control powers in determining the existence of de facto control situations by individual members or in conjunction with each other, in line with the decisions already taken by CONSOB itself in similar cases, and to add to the fixed threshold of 30%, already foreseen for compulsory takeover bids, a second threshold linked to the marked situation of actual control. The Government is also committed to complete, within a maximum of thirty days, the adoption of the implementing regulations referred to in Decree-Law No 21 of 2012, in particular as regards the exercise by the State of the golden rule in the case of companies of strategic interest, especially when infrastructure on which the security of the country depends is at stake. (at 10.28 a.m.) (De Camillis, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers). To these two commitments, provided for in both motions, are added those indicated in motion 1-00165, at the first signature of Senator Ciampolillo, in which the Government tends to engage to ensure a more rapid development of fibre networks of the new generation and full protection and enhancement of the employment and wealth of knowledge and skills of Telecom Italia, as well as to adopt, in any case, all measures aimed at ensuring that the network infrastructure is public or in any case under public control, in order to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of the person and the promotion of the enterprise initiative in the Country. With reference to the first point of the motions, it is represented that the Senate is being examined the draft law n. 958, of government initiative, which includes measures of simplification of obligations for citizens and businesses and of reordering regulations, which also contains provisions for the protection of investors and savings. In particular, this provision provides, with amendments to the TUF, that CONSOB may exercise the powers already provided for in Article 187-GG of the TUF in respect of any person who may be informed of facts subject to specific supervisory procedures under the competence of CONSOB itself and not only with regard to supervised entities. Therefore, extending to all areas of supervision of CONSOB the powers envisaged to date only in the matter of market abuse, there would be a strengthening of the powers of the aforementioned Authority also to ascertain the existence of possible concerted actions and occult pacts and to supervise the correct application of the discipline on transactions with related parties in cases of transactions in potential conflict of interest. The measure also provides for a specific pecuniary administrative penalty against the directors of listed companies for serious violations of the discipline in the matter of transactions with related parties that may cause damage to the company, members or the market; this in order to increase the effectiveness of the enforcement on the discipline of transactions in potential conflict of interest, taking into account that the current discipline has not attributed to CONSOB any specific sanctioning power vis-à-vis the directors of listed companies that violate such discipline. With particular reference to point (b) (1) of motion No 160, the following is to be added: The transposition of the Community directive on takeover bid (Directive 2004/25/EC) in 2007 confirmed the fixed threshold of 30%, which leads to an obligation to promote public offering on all actions held by minorities. The Directive, with regard to the identification of the conditions for compulsory takeover bids, does not clearly indicate whether it is possible, in addition to a system with a fixed participatory threshold, to provide for criteria relating to the acquisition of a participation which allows effective control over the quota. Member States have mainly chosen a system based on the single fixed threshold. Some countries have opted for a mixed system that combines the two elements. According to a recent study by ESMA (European Securities and Markets Authority), all Member States, except four, have adopted a fixed threshold model, in most cases defined as 30% or 33% of voting rights. The integration of the current fixed threshold model with a de facto control forecast could present contraindications. First, a system based on the verification of the control in fact could make the corporate control market more uncertain; moreover, it could present application problems for the Supervisory Authority related to the difficulty to verify ex post the existence of the control in fact, verifications that may take not short time considering the need to examine the effects of the acquisition of the participation of less than 30% at least in the subsequent shareholders' meeting for the renewal of the corporate bodies. Moreover, the discretion associated with the assessment of the Supervisory Authority entails a high risk of appeal against the supervisory authority's decisions. This could lead to the risk that the takeover bid would be promoted after a long time by the acquisition of control, with problems for minority shareholders who had to sell their shares in the meantime. These issues were highlighted in the hearing at the Senate of the President of CONSOB and of the Undersecretary Giorgetti, on 26 September 2013. Finally, given the importance of the subject matter and its implications on company affairs, it should be noted that any amendment to the OPA legislation should be the subject of prior regulatory impact assessment and public consultation. As regards the adoption of the regulations implementing Decree-Law No 21 of 15 March 2012, converted by Law No 56 of 11 May 2012, on 9 October 2012, the Council of Ministers started the complex process of defining these regulations. In particular, the preliminary examination was carried out of three decree schemes of the President of the Republic indicated below: the first outline identified the assets in the fields of energy, transport and communications; the second set out the procedures for the activation of special powers in the fields of defence and national security; the third set out the procedures for the activation of special powers in the fields of energy, transport and communications. The schemes of these decrees will be forwarded to Parliament and the Council of State and, with regard to the third scheme, also to the independent authorities in the field, for opinions of competence. Meanwhile, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers is in the process of being published, conferring special powers on the Government for the purposes of defence and national security; the special powers in question can also be exercised vis-à-vis Italian and European companies. Beyond the real and concrete regulatory powers that can be exercised, in accordance with European law there is the power of fact deriving from a government in office that can somehow determine some choices, indeed I repeat that it has the duty to do so for this asset so important in order to take advantage of it for the country. To these technical elements I add that the motions deal with issues that have a strategic character for the country on which the Government, as you know, is working. I believe that the issues raised by the presenters and speakers are of great importance. I now come to the opinions. On motion No 160, the Government gives a favourable opinion on point 1 (a) of the operative part, with a small rewording intended to replace the words "a special decree-law" with the others: "an appropriate regulatory provision." As regards point 1 (b), the Government returns to the Chamber. In fact, on the one hand, there are the critical elements that I have read in the technical report, on the other hand, I believe that the issues raised are of great importance and on them Parliament rightly has the sovereignty to indicate a will to the Government. I then give a favourable opinion on point 2 of the operative part, but would request that the words "up to 30 days" be replaced by the words "up to 30 days" with the words "up to 30 days" as a matter of urgency." On the other hand, as regards motion 165, the first two points of the device are absorbed by the first two of motion 160, while on points 3) and 4) the opinion is in favour; I would finally ask for paragraph 5 to be expunged), otherwise the Government's opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u28	Meanwhile, I ask Senator Cucchetti what his assessments are after listening to the comments of the representative of the Government, who asks that, with regard to point 1) of the device, the words "specific decree-law" be replaced by the others: "appropriate legislative provision" and that, with regard to point 2, the words "within the maximum period of 30 days" be replaced by the others: "with the greatest urgency".
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u29	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the representative of the Government for his remarks, which I would like to comment briefly on in order to make all of us as clear as possible about the deliberations we are going to take.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u30	More than commenting, you should point out, Senator: since we are in the evaluation of the Government's observations.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u31	MUCCHETTI (PD). Yes, exactly. As far as the double threshold is concerned, the Government points out that the EU directive does not clearly indicate whether this is possible. In a liberal state, anything that is not clearly forbidden is possible: we are in a liberal state, we are in this rule. The Government itself recognizes that in some countries - not minor, let me add - there is a double threshold for compulsory takeover bids, similar to that proposed by the motion of which I am the first signatory. Therefore, the point is whether, considering the particular nature of our country, its business system, its Stock Exchange and whatever else, it is suitable for our country to have the compulsory takeover bid regime or have, for example, the regime in force in the City of London. I believe that the structure of Italy is very different from that of the United Kingdom - better in some respects, worse in others - and therefore the double threshold system better intercepts the objective we have, namely the protection of savings. The Government, when addressing the issue of de facto control, says that a system based on the verification of de facto control could make the corporate control market more uncertain. We don't know what it's like to be certain or uncertain; we have the experience of so many recent events in which... president. Excuse me, Senator, we should consider the government's comments on the points highlighted. If necessary, explanations of vote will follow. The Government has put forward proposals for amendments to points (1) and (2) of the operative part. MUCCHETTI (PD). In short, I believe that the Government's opinion on point 1 (b) of point 1, for which it refers to the House, is very timely, and we share that view. With regard to the issue of the urgent decree, we believe that, in view of the specific case from which this general rule is based, the invitation to adopt a special decree-law should be maintained, unless there are other legislative vehicles even faster; but we would not like to go long. With regard to the last remark, concerning the 30-day period referred to in point 2 of the operative part, I believe that we can accept the invitation to replace it with the words: 'with the utmost urgency', but we would like the Undersecretary De Camillis to point out that the greatest urgency must really be so. So if the days are not thirty but thirty-five, that's fine, but if they become one hundred and twenty and you go beyond January, no. I would like to make that very clear. If you could do it in 20 days, you'd have the applause.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u32	Senator Mucchetti, to summarize, given the delicacy of the matter that, I remind everyone, concerns companies, some even listed on the Stock Exchange, so we are not having an academic discussion, being the Senate of the Republic: the Government asked, with regard to point 1) of the motion to examine to replace the words "a special decree-law" with the following: "an appropriate legislative measure". The presenter intends to maintain the original wording, so the government must let us know if, at this point, he confirms his favorable opinion. I would point out to the Undersecretary that this is a delicate matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u33	Mr President, it is clear that the motion also says 'through the adoption of a special decree-law'. It was for what, since you also indicated the decree-law, I asked to insert the formula: "appropriate regulatory provision". Since there is the word "also," the Government will interpret this expression accordingly, and therefore, if it decides to use another legal provision, it will be able to use it. I am therefore in favour of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u34	Therefore the Government, modifying the opinion previously expressed, accepts the text as it is and points out that it is written in the text also through the adoption of a special decree-law. Therefore, in order to remain in our minutes, the word "also" is considered as a possibility of using a different instrument: this, for the interpretation of possible future measures. As regards point (a) of point 1, the Government gave a favourable opinion; on point (b) it returned to the House, so it is noted. With regard to the words "within the maximum period of 30 days" it seems to me then that Senator Mucchetti has agreed to replace them with the others: "with the utmost urgency," obviously with the hope that the greatest urgency coincides with the times, which are known, of some events in progress. So this remains established (I hope that also for the Offices it is clear). As regards motion No 165, the first two points would be taken up by the adoption of motion No 160; on points 3 and 4, a favourable opinion was expressed, while the opinion was opposed to point 5). What's your opinion, Senator Ciampolillo?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u35	However, we intend to maintain point 5 above. However, I would like to understand on the first two points what the Government's opinion would be.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u36	The Government has said that it considers them absorbed by the possible approval of the previous motion (this is then being verified also by the Offices). At that point they would be superfluous and useless. So there would be a decision on point 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u37	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). I try to explain to myself: if we agree to consider the first two points absorbed and keep point 5), since on points 3) and 4) there is a favourable opinion, I would like to understand if the entire motion can be accepted by the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You're welcome, Undersecretary De Camillis.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u38	It is clear that if point 5 remains in the motion and the authors ask that it be voted in full, the opinion will have to be negative.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u39	So, Senator Ciampollo? CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). All right, we'll keep it in its entirety. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you keep it in its entirety? Without a request for a split vote, what could be your faculty? CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). We will, if necessary, ask for a split vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u40	When we get to the vote, he'll tell us.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u43	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, of course, we agree with Mr Cucchetti's assessment of the Government's observations, and I very much share his concern about the absolute need to operate under the most urgent conditions. I would also like to take the view that this greatest urgency is not only due to the sensitivity and drama of this issue (from all points of view, employment and strategy), but also to the acts that will be put in place. By removing the reference to 30 days and accepting the Government's proposal, a time limit could be envisaged, for example by entering the expression "not beyond" a given term. I would suggest that we consider this safeguard rule - I call it that - and in any case to provide for a deadline that does not go beyond the calendar year, or is also anticipated, because this would give everyone the guarantee of the effectiveness of the operation within a given deadline. Otherwise, as has often been said, trusting is good, but in doing so you may run into some problem in this case not delicate, but dramatic.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u46	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if it is the fault of the economic crisis but certainly with the complicity of this one our country has yielded very important parts of its industrial heritage in favor of foreign investors, losing away assets that have always been considered very strategic for economic growth. The Alitalia case is evidence of this and, after this, the last in order of time is that relating to the transfer of the control of Telecom to Telefónica, cession that would lead the Spanish group to have control of the Italian telecommunications network. Today, Telecom SpA's Italian structure (listed company) sees the company controlled by Telco SpA (non-listed company) with a stake of about 22%. On 24 September 2013, Telco's members, namely Generali, Intesa Sanpaolo, Mediobanca and Telefónica, concluded an amending agreement of the parasocial pact relating to Telco that will allow the acquisition by Telefónica shareholder of the majority of shares and therefore ownership of Telecom Italia's control. Telecom is considered - it has been said a bit 'by all - one of the few Italian companies of international importance and controls and manages the Italian telecommunications network: a strategic asset for this country. It is certainly a company that was founded in 1925, under fascism, and passed through the revolution of privatisation and liberalization. For almost a century he has managed telephony in Italy and therefore all the communications of Italian citizens, even the most confidential ones. It is therefore a very delicate structure. In fact, the network passes all the data of citizens, but also those of businesses and public administrations. For this reason, it is legitimate to have concerns about Telecom's sale transaction, which could pose serious national security problems. This has already been reported several times by the press. It is not by chance that on 30 September 2013 the Chambers were sent the draft corrective decree of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 30 November 2012, which provides for the inclusion in the activities of strategic importance for national security and defence also of the networks and facilities used for the provision of access to end users of the services covered by the obligations of universal service and of broadband and ultra-wide services. After all this bailam of news, all these concerns and all these shortcomings in terms of clarity, we rushed as Commissions to audio subjects heavily interested in the issue, like the executive president of Telecom, Franco Bernabè, who, among other things, after his resignation received several million for the exit of the scene, of which half served to ensure that Bernabé himself did not compete with companies like Telecom (but, given the results of this work over the years, maybe this money could save them). [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We also audit the President of CONSOB Giuseppe Vegas, who is involved in this motion, and also undersecretary Alberto Giorgetti, who deals with finances. They have been hearings that have certainly provided interesting information, but they have not dissolved our reservations, that we hope will be taken into consideration by the Government in the light of everything that has been written, done and will be done. These reservations certainly also increased when it was said, and not by any person at the bar, that the news of the negotiations between Telecom and Telco had been learned in the newspapers and that they certainly strengthened when the President of the Council himself told the press that the Government will be vigilant but that it is still a private company. So, Mr. President, what do we do? There has also been a lively debate within our Group: a lively debate with my colleague Mr Crosio from the 8th Commission, who pointed out that this Government must commit itself to the Telecom affair and to the telecommunications sector in general. I cannot say, Mr President, whether this country needs cases like this to make room for serious debate in the parliamentary classrooms, but it seems that this is the case. A government that has entrusted 21 ministers with the task of managing this country has not devoted attention to strategic sectors such as the one of telecommunications, which instead should, on the contrary - let me say - must best express the incredible potential of development that is intrinsic to the same subject. Mr President, it follows that issues such as broadband and ultra-wideband, the Digital Agenda and the detachment of the network are likely to become or be considered as B-series themes, or forced to live in the shadows and to be illuminated, when a "casino" like this of Telecom occurs, by a light that is not a light of its own but reflected. The Northern League has been proposing for years an industrial plan that provides for the separation of the governance of the network from that of the services, in order to guarantee the development of the fibre network as a fundamental platform for the new generation networks. The network, I remind everyone and myself, is a heritage of the country and of Italians all; it must, therefore, be guaranteed and protected. Perhaps, Mr President, the serious problem is that this Government has no strategy for the adoption of an organic industrial policy to relaunch the Italian production system: the latest events, such as that of Ilva, the issue of Riva and many Italian international brands, and today that of Telecom, are a concrete and dramatic demonstration of this. We are therefore certainly concerned that there is little clarity and, on the other hand, a lot of confusion about this case, which, Mr President, as I was taught (there is no need to have a degree in hydraulic engineering, because my mother says so too when she puts the patches), comes from the fact that the sum of two holes only makes a bigger hole. So, by adding about 30 billion Telecom's debt to the 60 billion Telefónica debt, you get a huge debt, higher than we pay interest on public debt every year. We would have liked to have tabled a motion of our own, and we have prepared, reasoned and calibrated it to the case; we have discussed it, between the members of the two Commissions and with the whole Group. We have, however, decided, Mr President, to sign the motion tabled and proposed by the President of the 10th Commission, Senator Cucchetti, realizes that this attempt - which I hope is not in vain - to repair a damage already done and the possibility that the Italian institutions have to intervene on this matter. It's a joint motion. Therefore, there is a need for the Senate to approve a single text, to protect investors (this was our thought) and, above all, the small savers of this country. Our vote will therefore be in favour, with all the reservations of the case and with all the doubts that we have just highlighted, in the hope that this will be a first important sign of industrial policy and, more specifically, of a policy that is attentive to telecommunications and everything around it. I do not want to defend the government, nor President Letta, but I recommend - and my last name, dear President, allows me - the foreign press and the UK's largest newspaper to do some of their own business, because in the field of protectionism they have many things to teach the universe the world. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] One final remark. I have listened to the Undersecretary's remarks on the first motion: let us try to ensure that the motion we have signed is not watered down. Why? We are always very concerned when it does not indicate a precise time frame for the implementation of what this House is asking for and about which almost all the groups are expressing their agreement. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u49	LANZILLOTTA (SPI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the history of Telecom's corporate structure, from privatisation to today, perhaps better than any other history, tells the characteristics, weaknesses, ways of working and the ethics of Italian capitalism and its relationship with politics. The origin of Telecom's problems is undoubtedly in the way in which its privatisation was carried out in 1997, which offered the company to the market as it was, without proceeding to the break-up of the network, thereby achieving at one stroke only two negative results: the loss of control by the State of a strategic asset for the country and its future development and the inevitable continuation of the monopoly of the incumbent in the rich and expansionary telecommunications market. But in the privatization of Telecom, in the difficulty of forming a solid industrial soul in the new society it was also possible to immediately glimpse the lack of foresight of a manufacturing capitalism poorly aware of the global revolution that telecommunications would bring transforming this sector in the business of the future; shortsightedness that, although always justified in the name of the financial emergency, characterized also those for the State led the privatization without realizing that the great wiring project called Socrates, that the then TET and its leader were realizing, would have endowed Italy with an infrastructure that would make it at the forefront in Europe and in the world. Telecom's second problem arises, as has been pointed out by many, in the second phase of privatisation, that which sees the brave Gnutti-Colaninno, then Tronchetti Provera and finally Telco's partners, who intervened in a sort of penultimate rescue (the last we see in these days). Capitalists without capital who, thanks to the mechanism of the Chinese boxes, have conquered the control of the society with modest shares of capital and have unloaded on the company the weight of the debt contracted in order to acquire the control of the society itself, with the double effect of pushing as much as possible the revenues from monopoly rent and to block the investments, not only for the development but also for the maintenance of the fixed net, whose level of degradation was testified by the relationship that in the now distant 2008 the Berlusconi Government commissioned to Francesco Caio. Since then the situation has certainly not improved (in fact, perhaps the opposite) and all these operations have taken place with the blessing (when not with the support) of the policy, a policy that in the field of communications has been obsessed over the past twenty years by the problem of television, frequencies, the occupation of RAI and too late realized that the heart of the future was the broadband network and the NGN. An unforgivable distraction but, last but not least, even a little'suspecting because one cannot but think that in recent months (since, that is, it has become clear and indisputable the strategic character of the network and its control, as well as the pre-falliary state of Telecom) has not intervened to impose a solution to the problem of the separation of the network and has not issued the regulation for the exercise of the golden power of the telecommunications companies. Perhaps he did not want to disturb the maneuverer, ending up protecting more the interests of Telco shareholders than those of the country. Now the motion promoted by Senator Mucchetti tries to run to the shelter to avoid the last insult to savers and foreign investors who believed in Telecom Italia and that by the operation and acquisition of control by Telefónica would have no advantage, once again as happened in previous operations Gnutti, Colaninno and Tronchetti Provera. But we also want to avoid that on global financial markets passes the idea that in Italy, with a few euros, we can gain control of the largest company in the country: this is not the kind of attraction that we want to offer to investments and foreign investors. It's something different. Therefore, I believe that this intervention, far from appearing to be an improper interference in the functioning of the market, can instead appear as a guarantee for those who actually want to invest in the Italian industrial system. The double threshold for the takeover bid therefore aims to protect savers, discourage and make less convenient the way in which our system achieves control through Chinese boxes and intends to make the functioning of the financial market more transparent. The double threshold, therefore, has no protectionist aims and does not want to make companies less contestable, but wants to ensure that the acquisition transactions are carried out with real capital and with maximum transparency. The aim is to ensure that the ownership of the network ensures investment in infrastructure and competition on services, otherwise I think it will be better not to talk more about the digital agenda, which becomes a rhetorical theme, without effective operational consistency. Finally, we hope, Madam Undersecretary, to acknowledge that we have followed our work with diligence, that on matters so important for the country and its future the Government will prove to be a little more focused than it has done in the course of this debate and will take with promptness the necessary initiatives that are indicated in the motion. If not, at least this time no one can say that he was caught by surprise: it will mean that he will have wanted to endorse this as the others, similar, any operations that can be carried out in the societies of the so-called great Italian capitalism, behind the savers and the interest of the country. For this reason, the Civic Choice Group for Italy announces its vote in favour. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u52	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, first of all we ask that we vote strongly in favour of our motion, partly because there are points that I believe are largely acceptable, partly because there are others that have been eluded for too long. That of the net, which is a natural monopoly, is an unresolved issue; it is a hot potato that has been spinning for twenty-one years for Italy, because for a wrong privatization it has ended up not dividing the network from the management of services, and therefore the net has been sold, with all the box that surrounded it, to a private one. After that, as it was rightly pointed out, he never put his hand on the discipline of the Chinese boxes, which is one of the battle horses of the 5 Star Movement. So it has come to the point (as it was predictable), that with little you control the much. It is not only the case of Telco, which is the last of the pre-constituted boxes to control Telecom Italia: the first was the famous Tecnost, which produced electromechanical machines. The Riva family, with a 164 million-capitalization company located in Luxembourg, also controls a billion-dollar empire. So, you see what we're discussing here is just the last of a series of problems. In particular, in this case, with the complete possession of Telco you would have the control of 22.45 percent of Telecom Italia's share ownership; therefore, with little control it would be very much. It is not difficult to understand when there is a de facto control: it is enough to see how many board members control themselves with that stock package. It is very simple: if you control 51% of the board of directors with less than 51%, you have de facto control. One thing is to try to reconstruct the entire row of boxes and counter-boxes, (which is something that should be done), another account is to ascertain (which you can do very quickly) the actual control. Point 1) of the commitment contained in motion 165 is therefore absolutely essential. But point 5 is also essential because the infrastructure network is, as I said before, a natural monopoly and is a fundamental asset for a nation, like all natural monopolies. Nor is the argument that the network is a cholabrode whose modernization would be very expensive, because the really expensive part is the vertical wiring, that is that of the buildings, where there are the famous copper doubles. So, it's always said that copper is a bottleneck and you have to rewire it, but it's fake, that's not true either. In fact, already in 2010 has been developed a technology that allows to transfer on double, using it symmetrically, 300 megabits per second of information: 300 megabits per second are enough to see a live streaming movie without any jumping, in high definition mode. So once we take the fiber optics to the closet, we're good and that part of wiring costs less. Before we get to the reason why you should vote on point 5), I stress the real handicap: Telecom is full of debts because it was allowed, essentially, by the institutions and control bodies, to do the climbs in debt; in other words, something was bought in debt by the same thing that was bought. Then, in order to get out of this situation, it is necessary first of all that the separation of the network is carried out, declaring it an asset of national strategic interest; then, it is clear that, when the society will be constituted envelope of this network, it will be given employment, that is, the dependent branch that operates in the field, and the debts will be conferred on it, because obviously part of the debts will be discharged on this one. Let us not deceive ourselves: however, the matter of employment will come out again because, when Telefònica should really take control, it would only be interested in the parts and assets of Telecom that are in South America, which are the really profitable ones. So, we would play a lot of jobs in Italy. There are a number of jobs connected with the network. In addition, the network is an investment that deserves to be made because it can bring profits. We could argue that we do not know where the financial resources will be found: this type of investment can be recovered from another which, documents in hand, is to lose, that is the high-speed train. Investment is comparable; it is only a matter of shifting resources dedicated to a lost investment. In fact, by declaration of the same company that wants to realize the TAV, that is an investment that will never pay back, while the telecommunications networks always pay back. We therefore call for the adoption, above all, of paragraph 5 of motion 1-00165 for this explicit reason. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u55	Gibiino (PdL). Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the motion we are debating here today on the Telecom affair has been promoted by Commissions 8a and 10a of the Senate and represents the point of arrival of an intense work of deepening that they have carried out over the past few weeks. It should be stressed that Parliament's attention in this regard has never failed: already before the summer, in fact, the Senate had been interested in the prospects for the company's development, with regard to the project of detachment of the old Telecom network. On this project the 8th Senate Commission had in fact started a cognitive survey, through specific hearings: the same president of Telecom Italia, the main telecommunications companies operating in our country, some important institutional interlocutors interested in the project, such as Deposit and Loan Fund and Strategic Fund F2I. Already from these in-depth studies some important profiles had emerged clearly: firstly, the need to protect and exploit as much as possible the telecommunications infrastructure of the Telecom network, being a strategic asset for the national economy; secondly, the heavy indebtedness of the Telecom Italia group and the repercussions that this could have on the same project of separation of the network. Telecom Italia, it is good to point out, capitalizes about 11 billion euros and employs, with its group, more than 80,000 employees. In view of its high indebtedness (about 29 billion net and 38 billion gross), which arose initially as a result of the note OPA Olivetti and then increased in the course of subsequent control exchange operations, in recent years it has been engaged in the search for a lasting solution to its financial and industrial problems, aggravated, among other things, by a deteriorated macroeconomic situation, as well as by the excessive exposure to a domestic market now saturated and subject to strong competitive pressure, especially in the mobile segment. On 24 September, on the other hand, while in the 8th Commission there was still discussion about the division of the network and the desirability of a public intervention, Telefónica, through an agreement with the Italian partners of Telco, started the process for the control of Telecom Italia. For better intelligence, it should be pointed out that the situation prior to the agreement of 24 September saw Telco as Telecom's main shareholder with a stake of about 22%. Telco had a capital of 2 categories of shares: A shares, representing 53.82 percent of the share capital, owned by Italian investors (banks); B shares, representing 46.18 percent of the share capital, owned by Telefónica. The shares confer equal property and administrative rights on their holders, with the exception of certain provisions of Telco's social statute which provide, inter alia, for the prohibition of the exercise of voting rights in respect of holders of shares B in certain decisions relating to activities to be carried out in the telecommunications market of countries where restrictions, legal or regulatory, are in force by the competent authorities (Brazil and Argentina, to be understood). On 24 September, the members of Telco, Generali, Intesa Sanpaolo, Mediobanca and Telefónica concluded - as has been said - an amending agreement of the parasocial pact relating to Telco. The latter, according to CONSOB's 8th Commission report, is divided into two phases. The first phase provides for Telefònica's subscription of an increase in Telco's capital, of the amount of 324 million euros used by Telco's members for the repayment of bank debt due in November 2013. The recapitalisation, which took place by valuing Telecom's share at EUR 1.09, resulted in Telefònica's issuance and subscription of class C shares without the right to vote. The shares C will be converted into shares B, and will therefore acquire the right to vote, from 1 January 2014 and subject to obtaining the prescribed antitrust authorizations in Brazil and Argentina. Telefònica, following this conversion, will be able to reach a maximum share of 66 percent of the capital. The second phase provides for Telefónica's subscription of a further increase in Telco's share capital for 117 million euros, always with the issuance of shares without the right to vote under the same terms and conditions as the first increase in capital. Following the execution of this second capital increase, which will be conditional on Telefónica obtaining all regulatory and antitrust authorisations, Telefónica's participation in Telco will increase to 70%. The transaction also includes clear exit routes for Italian investors, after which Telefónica will be able to acquire the totality of Telco shares, paying a substantial surcharge compared to the current stock exchange courses. In fact, it is planned to grant a call option in favour of Telefónica, which will be able, from 1 January 2014, to purchase by cash all the shares of Italian partners in Telco. The exercise of the option will be subject to the acquisition by Telefónica of all regulatory and antitrust permissions. Therefore Telefónica, with the result of these phases, and in any case not before 1 January 2014, will be able to acquire the majority of the board of directors of Telco and therefore of Telecom. As recalled in the premises of the motion under consideration, in view of the importance of the issue, the Commissions 8a and 10a of the Senate immediately took action to deepen all aspects of this operation by holding, at the meeting, a series of hearings with the executive president of Telecom Italia, the vice minister of economic development Catralà, the president of CONSOB Vegas and the State Secretary for Economics and Finance Giorgetti. The hearings made it possible to acquire a clear and comprehensive information framework, from which it was obvious that, where the acquisition of Telecom Italia's control was carried out in the terms announced, a number of serious negative effects could arise for the national economy, the effects of which Parliament and the political forces must be well aware. It is certainly not a question of the fact that an important Italian industrial group can pass under the control of a foreign operator: this possibility, although not desirable, is in fact physiological and normal in a free market economy such as the Italian one. The critical aspects of this operation lie rather in the ways in which it could be improved. Telco is not listed on the stock exchange and, since the share it holds in Telecom is below the 30% threshold, under the current legislation there is no obligation on Telefónica España to submit a takeover bid. This means, on the one hand, that Telefónica could acquire control of a large company such as Telecom with a minimum capital injection and, on the other hand, that the majority of Telecom's shareholders (mostly small savers) would passively undergo an operation that would change substantially and effectively Telecom's governance. Precisely in order to protect small savers, the need to make the rules on takeover bids in Italy more topical is born. The current Italian legislation links the obligation of OPA to exceed 30% of the capital with the right to vote, regardless of whether the acquired participation corresponds to a situation of control of the listed company. In accordance with the current legislation, the obligation of takeover bid also arises in the event of the acquisition of control of a non-listed company which in turn holds a stake of more than 30% in a listed company, and this constitutes the predominant part of the assets of the non-listed company acquired. In a transaction such as that on Telecom, where the object of the purchase is a participation in a non-listed company (Telco) that holds a significant stake in a listed company (Telecom) that constitutes a prevalent part of its assets, so that there is an obligation to OPA there must therefore be two conditions: that the transaction involves the acquisition of control of Telco by Telefónica; that Telco owns more than 30 percent of Telecom. The first condition does not seem satisfied at the moment because the agreements between the shareholders of Telco limit the power of Telefónica as the shares that Telefónica has acquired as a result of the increase of reserved capital (and that carry its participation in Telco above 50 percent) are deprived of the right to vote until 1 January 2014, and however subject to the obtaining of all the regulatory and antitrust authorizations (including those in Brazil and Argentina). The second condition, namely the holding of more than 30 percent of Telecom by Telco, is not met because Telco owns only 22.47 percent of Telecom and Telefónica does not directly hold Telecom shares. Therefore, its overall participation in Telecom, even when it were to acquire control of Telco, would be less than 30%, unless further purchases are made. In conclusion, it is clear that Italy is lagging behind in updating its internal legislation to the changed international economic and financial framework. It is therefore good, first, to strengthen CONSOB's powers of control in determining whether there are de facto control situations by individual members or in concert with each other; secondly, to add to the fixed threshold of 30% already foreseen for compulsory takeover bids a second threshold linked to the verified factual control situation. Well, for these reasons the approval of this motion today in the Chamber, which pushes the Government to take an important decision to save a strategic network for the country, especially for those - 85%, we remember - have invested in Telecom, and are small savers, it becomes an absolutely necessary and unavoidable step, to be taken quickly, by the end of 2013. This is why the PdL Group voted in favour. [[Applause from the PdL Group and Senator D'Onghia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u58	FILIPPI (PD). Mr President, I too, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, would like to acknowledge the merit of the work carried out by the Senate's 8th and 10th Commissions, which allowed for a deepening of the Telecom issue, on the substance of the events that were taking place in real time. An appreciation that goes first of all to the conduct of the Presidents of the two Commissions, Cows and Matteoli, who have exercised their role under the banner of competence and authority. The Democratic Party Group shares the meaning and objective of the motion they have tabled as the first signatories and signed by many other senators, which is now being proposed for the approval of the Assembly. It is a dual objective aimed at intervening both on the discipline of the OPAs and on the completion of the legislation inherent in the golden rule in the sectors considered strategic for the Country. As regards the first point - I would like to remind you - the motion commits the Government to introduce, as a matter of urgency, rules aimed at strengthening the powers of CONSOB in determining the existence of situations of de facto control, and this in order to safeguard, in a more complete way, the founding principles of the legislation concerning the regulation on takeover bids, starting from an effective protection of minority shareholders. In this sense, the proposal is to introduce a double differentiated threshold, which can be more effective for those large companies which, with a widespread share ownership, can allow - and have allowed, as we have seen in all these years - elusive practices of that principle. We are talking about elusive practices about the necessary protection of the rights of small shareholders who, while representing in the case of Telecom more than 75% of the share ownership, have found themselves in a condition of marginality in the representation of the social group; practices that have also allowed degenerative processes made of corporate scale in debt, without guaranteeing the protection of investments, but increasing, on the contrary, the debt exposure of the company. As far as the second point is concerned, I find it equally correct that the Government is asked to define more fully the whole discipline of the sector concerning the exercise of golden power and golden rule for strategic sectors and that, to date, it is still lacking in terms of implementing regulations. The purpose of the request for such commitments is to grasp, in the timely window that has been recalled, indicated from here to the end of the current year, the opportunity to exercise a proper role on the part of the State in the fundamental protection of the general interest of the country that the intrinsic nature of a telecommunications network itself entails. And here, in my view, we come to the point represented by today's question: what is the general interest of the country to be protected, beyond allowing with the most appropriate instruments its possible achievement? Personally I tend to be wary of the simplification that this protection is guaranteed with the so-called Italianity of the network, principle in itself perhaps acceptable, but insufficient to grasp the complexity of the issues involved in the Telecom affair as it has developed over the years and as it presents itself under the current conditions. I believe, rather, that the effort to which the institutions must strive is to recover a vision linked to an effective industrial policy of the sector, so as to allow the modernization and innovation of the telecommunications network aimed at the economic growth of the country system. If this reasoning has a meaning and a foundation, then it means that the priority must be the attention that the Government must place on the protection of the investments that we know are necessary. Guaranteeing the conditions of practicability means effectively protecting the general interest of the country. The point, then, can not only be - and I say only, of course - if Telefónica conquers Telco and with it the control cabin of Telecom, but rather understand what are the industrial projects of Telefónica (or any other subject) for Telecom. In particular, it is a question of understanding whether it is actually interested in the development of the national market rather than - as was recalled - to the foreign market of emerging countries, Brazil or Argentina that it is, able to offer in the current conditions greater profitability of the enterprise. If this condition is then met positively, it must be understood whether Telefónica, or (anyone else), is actually in a position to make the necessary investments. It is good to be clear that there is the innovation of the entire country system at stake, as provided for in the programmes of the Digital Agenda for Europe, recently transposed into our system and placed among the priorities of government action. As a corollary of this, it should be remembered that Telecom, despite its non-trivial debt status, estimated at over 30 billion euros, is, paradoxically, a healthy company. A company that, even under the conditions given, in these years has been able to produce profit margins that have allowed it to reduce the debt and to realize investments. A company that currently has in its infrastructural asset and in the competences of its human resources (an aspect that I want to emphasize strongly, because it often escapes the understanding of the public opinion) the tools that, if intimately connected, are essential for the modernization of the Country, indicated in these years with the digitization of the public administration and in the telematic services for the citizens. A complex process that we most often quickly simplify in the fiber optic cabling of the cities, but which instead has in its realization the challenge of services and content that can be applied on it. The second question that then needs to be asked is: how does the Government plan to put wings in this process? What resources and tools do you think you can make available? In recent years, and a great deal in recent months, there has been talk of the possible use of Cassa Depositi e Prestiti and of a hypothetical detachment of the network. In this respect, perhaps we should broaden the horizon of our analyses and observations to understand what is happening in Europe and, if possible, perhaps take a look outside. It takes little then to understand that, beyond a systemic approach, sometimes abstract and almost always theoretical, on the processes of liberalization, according to the most advanced doctrines in this matter, this is probably not the stage to attempt alchemies not in tune with the main European countries, which see huge public resources invest in the modernization of their networks and that they do not think precisely of their separation from the natural incumbent. Countries that are likely to be our future competitors in a process of convergence and integration on a Community scale. Well then it did the 8th Senate Commission - it has been remembered - to start a cognitive investigation in time on the project of division of the country's telecommunications network, in the perspective of a reflection that wants to bring back to the center the industrial policy for the country system. In the more general reflection we must not forget that, even if Telecom ended up abroad, Italy would no longer have even a single medium-large Italian company active in the mobile sector. For this reason, with this motion, we want to start a concrete problem in the short term: the greater control of CONSOB over this type of operation. But in the longer term we need to re-launch an overall reasoning on what an efficient and reliable communication network means, in practice, for companies and citizens to operate. That is why we need to work to ensure that this operation is not just a financial one. In short, this time politics is not asked to simply stand on the balcony to observe what happens in the increasingly asphyxiating living rooms of high finance, good in the past to create speculative bubbles but unable today to realize the premises for those solid industrial perspectives of which the country has an urgent need in order to set itself again in course with the processes of international development and innovation. It is for all these reasons that I have tried to put forward that I am strongly in favour of our Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u61	MUCCHETTI (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out to you and all my colleagues that the first two points of the motion tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and others would be absorbed, as the Government has already stated, by the motion tabled by myself and others. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have already pointed this out. It is up to the Presidency to do so. MUCCHETTI (PD). We therefore support points 3 and 4 of motion No 165 and ask the authors to proceed to a split vote, otherwise our vote will be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u62	Senator Cucchetti, it is the Government that must express its opinion on the motions. You are the presenter of one of them and it will be the Senator Ciampolillo's group that will decide whether to request a split vote. Yours was a sort of explanation of vote, to be considered irrelevant at this time. Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall then proceed to the vote on motion No 160 (text 2). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 160 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mucchetti and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 160 and 165 president. Points (1) and (2) of the operative part of motion No 165 are therefore deleted. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 165. I recall that the Government gave a favourable opinion on points 3 and 4, while on point 5 the opinion was against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u65	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 102 of the Rules of Procedure, I request the separate vote of the parts of the motion which have not been taken up by the previous vote, as well as the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote, by electronic procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u66	Since there were no comments, his request for a split vote was accepted. I now invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of paragraphs 3 and 4 of motion No 165, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 160 and 165 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on point 5 of motion 165. Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of paragraph 5 of motion No 165, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u67	The next item is the debate on draft law No 884. The rapporteur, Senator Paolo Romani, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u68	Mr President, this measure aims to ratify the agreement signed on 13 February this year under the Memorandum of Understanding signed on 27 September 2012 in New York. Greece and Albania have already ratified the Agreement, respectively on 9 April and 25 March this year. Failure to ratify the agreement by Italy would cause the ratifications already signed by the two countries I have just mentioned to lapse. As some recall, the examination of the text has been postponed until today pending a clarification by the Government on the composition of the consortium, which was inaccurate or at least outdated in the technical report attached to the measure, on legitimate and just request, which we welcomed, of the representative of the North League, Senator Crosio. We therefore await - I am thinking of the end of my report - clarification from the Government to frame, from a stock point of view, the corporate aspect of the TAP (Trans Adriatic Pipeline). Today we take a formal step that could change the prospects of economic development of our country in the diversification of energy sources and in energy infrastructure development. It is an opportunity that can diversify the sources of supply and constitute a European hub of gas in our country. It is an important opportunity in my opinion for Italian industrial development and a great opportunity in terms of employment and investment for the territory directly affected by the route. The Italian position with respect to the TAP project has changed over time. Initially Italy had also supported ITGI for its participation in the then Italian company Edison, which then became French property, as you know. When Azerbaijan has decided in the meantime to withdraw from the Shah Deniz Consortium, where gas is produced for several tens of millions of cubic metres of the project mentioned, the two projects, Nabucco West and TAP, have remained in competition, and the fact that it was decided for the latter seems to me to have been an important step as far as the Azerbaijani decision is concerned. In this respect, I must say that the European Commission has not always behaved strictly and neutrally, so much so that Commissioner Oettinger, who should have maintained strict neutrality in the presence of several projects of European interest, has never concealed support for the Nabucco West project and has even worked (official and unofficial committees) in Azerbaijan for this project to succeed. Luckily, even this attempt did not succeed. The choice by the Shah Deniz Consortium to supply the TAP rather than the Nabucco is based on the commercial advantages linked to the offer of the TAP consortium, but, as I have just said, for our country it is also an important political victory. Some data. The TAP pipeline will connect Shah Deniz's reservoir and Europe by joining the existing TanaP gas pipeline to the Turkish-Greek border, crossing the Greek and Albanian territory and the Adriatic, finally arriving in our country (to be precise in the Lecce, Puglia), for a total length of 800 kilometers, of which 105 offshore, and a expected flow rate of 10 billion cubic meters. It is inserted in the map of the existing pipelines: the TENP, of the Gries Pass, with a flow rate of about 15 billion cubic meters; the GALSI, that it will carry the Algerian gas through the Tyrrhenian, in phase of development; the TRANSMED, already working, to which it will connect the GALSI and that, through its various ramifications, it brings the gas to Sicily; the Greenstream, connected with Libya, that however undergoes all the happenings of this period both as regards the gas, and as regards the oil; the TAP, of which we are talking today; the Southstream, a great project that bypasses completely the Ukraine but that, through ENI and Italian companies, allows a direct connection Russia-Italy; obviously the Nabucco, that at this moment seems the possibility of connection of losing pipeline, because it has been discarded, as I said, from the Consortium Shah Deniz; finally, the TAG, the largest, than from the North, through Austria, carries the natural gas for a flow of about 47 billion cubic meters. It is obvious that all these connections carry a transport in the Italian territory of a much greater quantity than the internal requirements - which today is from 85 billion cubic meters a few years ago to 71 billion, also for the recession that there is - but this gives our country a possibility of industrial and energy development that can make Italy, as I said at the beginning, a hub of the total energy distribution. The examination of the environmental impact of the offshore section - an important fact of the problem, which has been urged by various political parties, but also by local realities - is currently being examined by the Government, but the TAP consortium has already delivered the study of environmental impact, the result of dialogue and liaison with local institutions and communities. ESIA also contains an illustration of the social projects planned for the territories that are affected by the TAP track, which I have just described. The text of the bill is simple and consists of several articles, authorisation to ratify the order of execution, financial coverage and entry into force. In the Agreement there is the possibility to define and better describe the support for the project, the relations with the international laws and treaties to which reference is made, the competent authorities that are interested in the TAP, the commitment to the non interruption of the project by the signatory countries, the standards of the project and the famous and important commission of implementation that will then be established. I would say that I can conclude by saying that, as far as we are concerned, we are already quite late, but we were waiting for the explanations of the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is a project that does not currently see the participation of Italian companies in the project itself, but let's say that the infrastructure basins, in the field of energy as in other fields, are important because they are consolidated with the territory. Once the environmental side is resolved, as it seems to understand that it can be resolved (I know that on this point there are some agendas, which tend to emphasize this aspect better), I have the impression that overall the project of this pipeline, which has won in Cesarini area the competition with Europe and with the European Commissioner in the exploitation and the possibility of transport of gas from the fields of Shah Deniz in Azerbaijan, with the long journey through Turkey, can only be an advantage in favor of the development and the growth of our country. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u69	I communicate that the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1 and the question referred for a preliminary ruling QS1 (text 3). He asked Senator Martelli to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u70	Mr President, with regard to this TAP project, we have presented the question of the preliminary ruling QP1 because we have noted that there are, in our opinion and also in the view of the Constitutional Court, with previous judgments also of the Court of Cassation, clear profiles of unconstitutionality. Once again we are in the breach, in the sense that once again this Government shows that it wants to despise the Constitution of the Republic. Yesterday we saw what happened in the examination of the constitutional bill; well, today we still have a demonstration of this. You not only want to tear the Constitution apart, but also large parts of constitutional jurisprudence, and also the Treaty of Lisbon. We here - as has already been explained - are going to examine a draft law that intends to endorse or better ratify a treaty that has been signed in New York and that provides for the realization, by a private consortium (there are three companies: Statoil, Axpo and E.ON), of a new pipeline that should, through Turkey, Greece and Albania, reach Italy. The source of this pipeline, which has partly already been built, is in the methane fields of Azerbaijan. Then, in the general discussion, it will be extensively analysed how this pipeline does not in any way alter the issue of energy supply. But let us go for a moment and see in detail which parts, in our opinion, are absolutely not constitutional. In Article 6 of the Agreement between Italy, Albania and Greece, it is stated that Italy, as a Contracting State, is required to take all appropriate measures to facilitate the implementation of the Project within its territory. However, at a time when the State is making itself easier, it runs counter to national rules, for example those in force regarding environmental impact assessment, because each project must be impartially assessed by the technical bodies and there must be no facilitation of one project over another. With regard to this, I want to borrow a sentence from Tito Livio, which said: ==References====External links==* Official website On the other hand, we are talking about a state that behaves differently with one citizen than another. Among other things, this project would have a significant impact on the environmental good, without the necessary apparatus of legislative, technical and administrative safeguards, inspired by a principle that is already part of the Community case law, which is the precautionary one, and required by European legislation on environmental impact assessment (Council Directive 337 of 1985) and on strategic environmental assessment (Directive 2001/42/EC). These directives call on individual European States to look closely and deepen the effects of certain infrastructure projects and plans on the impact on Italian territory. We're screwing with these regulations. And then we complain if most of the infringement procedures opened by the European Union against us are of an environmental nature! Out of 109 infringement procedures, as many as 30 are in the environmental sphere, and that is not a small matter. To this we add that in the acts of planning and direction that guide the transformation of the territory, the role of the system of territorial autonomy and the Regions is constitutionally recognized. In this regard, the Environmental Impact Assessment Committee of the Region of Puglia, the one affected by the arrival of the work and in which there will be the greatest impact, said that there is no interest in the realization of the work. However, it was decided to assert a national interest in favour of a private consortium and that the environmental impact assessment... (Brussio). Mr President, I am sorry, but it is impossible to continue in this chaos. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The House was asked to allow Senator Martelli to speak under acceptable conditions. Please continue, Senator Martelli. MARTELLI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. As I said, an environmental impact assessment has been submitted at national level which has literally zeroed the negative opinion expressed by the corresponding technical body of the Puglia Region. Then we can say that the constitutional principle that regulates the relationship of collaboration in the division of competences between the State and the Regions has been violated. At a time when the State does not respect this relationship of collaboration with the Regions, it is clear that a constitutional rule is violated. Another objection is that the work does not meet the necessary requirements of strategicity and compliance with the correct use of energy sources. On the contrary, it presents significant environmental concerns which are of constitutional importance. The Constitution, in fact, with Article 9, from which emerges not a static or aesthetic vision, but an aim of integrated and articulated environmental protection, in connection with Article 32, which protects health as a fundamental right, protects the landscape not from a purely aesthetic point of view, but in connection with the right to the health of citizens. There is also the constitutional doctrine that speaks of the right to the environment, such as the Treaty of Lisbon and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, whose Article 37 refers to the protection of the environment and the improvement of its quality, as well as to the principle of sustainable development. Law No 349 of 1986 consequently recognized as the fundamental right of the person and interest of the community the protection of the environment, understood not only as rational management, but also as an effective improvement of natural conditions. Then there is the famous judgment n. 5172 of 6 October 1979, with which the Court of Cassation has specified that every man - holder of inviolable rights, both as a single person and as a member of the social formations in which his personality takes place - therefore, has a fundamental right to health not only as a single citizen, but also as a member of the communities he frequents and therefore has a right to the healthy environment. This principle was also recognised by the Constitutional Court in its judgments No 210 of 1987 and No 641 of 1987. Thus, the emphasis is placed on collective right to environmental protection as protection of the ecosystem and its health. The environment is understood, always according to these two judgments, as the set of air, water, soil, nature and biodiversity. In accordance with these two judgments, the right of citizens to intervene in the decision-making process, especially when it comes to this type of infrastructure, is largely protected. However, in the exercise of transposition, which we are doing, of the implementing Treaty, we must note that this has not been done, and that the principle of loyal cooperation, which should exist, between the State and the local communities has not been pursued. Other judgments of the Constitutional Court state how this principle of loyal cooperation should be pursued (No 331 of 2010, No 383 of 2005 and No 6 of 2004). The Constitutional Court, in fact, says that the general requirements underlying a given project or procedure cannot diminish the need for the involvement of the different local realities in decision-making procedures. So, when the national state doesn't do all this, the question is what kind of loyal cooperation would it be? We don't see him at all. And it does not end here, because the unitary and overall discipline of the good environment concerns a public interest of primary and absolute constitutional value, and this is still said by the Constitutional Court, with judgment No 151 of 1986 and judgment No 210 of 1987. The Constitutional Court has always said that this is an indispensable value from other disciplines in the field. But again, the conclusions and doctrine of constitutional jurisprudence, in judgments No 407 of 2002 and No 282 of 2002, constitute the environment as an area of competence that invests and intertwines inextricably with other interests and competences. Therefore, this matter has a constitutional value recognised by constitutional doctrine and, as I have mentioned, there are at least ten judgments of the Constitutional Court which say that the principles of loyal cooperation and involvement of territorial authorities in the formation of decision-making have been violated. For these reasons, we are asking that the draft law authorising the ratification of this Treaty not even be voted on, as it is clearly unconstitutional. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u71	She asked Senator De Petris to explain the suspensive question QS1 (text 3). You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u72	Mr President, we have tabled a suspensive question about the ratification of this agreement for various reasons. First of all, let me tell you that we have a way of proceeding and evaluating the bill frankly a bit surreal and strange. In this case, this was solely and exclusively the responsibility of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would like to point out that we are here to vote on a text which is intended to ratify an Agreement with other countries, but it concerns an issue on which other Commissions should have had direct competence. And I am referring not only to the Environment Commission (and then I am going to say this), but also to the Industry Commission, which has been called upon simply to give opinions. I see that the rapporteur has left. I don't know where he is, but I haven't figured out for a few days...
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u73	Senator Romani, I invite you not to stray from your place.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u74	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). The rapporteur, also in the report accompanying the bill, refers to a strategic interest of our country. 11:58 a.m. (De PETRIS follow-up). I, frankly, would have liked to have had a little more detailed discussion, even with a number of data, because, in our view, this is not exactly a strategic work for national interests. That's the point. We should have had (and that is why we are asking our fellow senators to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution which we have tabled) an economic impact report, so let us call it, because (as is also apparent from the report, even if it would have needed further study), although we are called to vote on ratification, we do not have clear what economic benefits would come from it to the country. I say this because, despite the fact that a series of technical data emerge from the report itself, we have no confidence (let us imagine the House, given the total confusion and the lack of listening) in what is the strategic value, as well as the economic impact for our country. I hope that the Government will be able to provide these elements. I shall then also deal with the environmental aspect, which is important. In the report on the draft law, we see a number of inconsistencies. First of all, it states that the gas pipeline, once realized, will ensure a diversified supply of gas necessary for national security for Italy of about 10 billion cubic metres per year (in practice corresponding to the entire transport capacity). We are clear, however, that the project will not be able to help generate the savings that the Government claims to be able to achieve by 2020 of approximately €13.5 billion per year, through the reduction of wholesale prices that would be aligned to European levels, as the consortium of the project requested and obtained the derogation from the third party access. This derogation, in addition to establishing that the capacity of the infrastructure (once realized) will be reserved exclusively to members of the TAP consortium within the limits of the total future capacity of 20 billion cubic metres and for a period of 25 years, also authorizes the exemption from the discipline that provides for the access of third parties (President Lanzillotta, I know how careful you are to these issues). The exemption from the corporate separation obligations of transport and production activities allows the consortium, applying the TAP tariff code, to determine the consideration for the transport, thereby exempting it from the application of the methodology of calculation of the tariff regime established by the authority. This provision, inter alia, is expressly provided for in Article 9 of the Agreement itself, according to which preliminary price agreements will last for 25 years and cannot be modified or resolved without the consent of the consortium. I think we need more insight and clarification on this issue, which has not been done so far. The other incongruity consists in the fact that the indeterminate nature of the project, of which there is still no final drafting, and the limitation explicitly contained in Article 6 of the Agreement, which requires all countries in whose territories the pipeline is located to take any measures to facilitate the implementation of the project including the granting of all necessary authorisations without unreasonable delays and restrictions, pose a number of questions on the possibility of compliance with Italian and Community legislation on the environment, health and safety of work. I now come to the other part of the economic assessment. You know perfectly well that the landing place of this pipeline is in the province of Lecce, on the Adriatic coast, an area of the country that has seen, especially in recent times, a strong growth of tourism. It is clear to everyone that this port will put - and for this reason there is alarm in the local communities - absolutely and totally in question this part of economic development that to date has been one of the few that has had that territory. I am also referring to this when I say that an assessment of the economic impact is necessary. We must understand what is the convenience for our country both from the energy point of view, with all the inconsistencies I was talking about before, also with respect to the fact that the prices are fixed for 25 years anyway, both from the strategic point of view, considering that this gas pipeline, as is clearly evident, does not have a value for our country, which is simply a hub, a landing place from which to then sort out the gas destined to the needs of other countries. These assessments have not, in my view, been made, after, among other things, the environmental impact study was recently submitted, with delay. For all these reasons we ask, addressing both the Region and the Ministry, to suspend the examination of the measure, pending the results of the environmental impact assessment and strategic assessment, and we ask expressly a suspension of the examination in order to have a report on the economic impact of this work.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u75	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single discussion will take place on the question referred for a preliminary ruling and will take place in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes. As no one asks to speak, I put to the vote the question referred by Senator Lezzi and other senators for a preliminary ruling. It's not approved. I put to the vote the suspensive question QS1 (text 3), put forward by Senator De Petris and other senators. It's not approved. I declare the general discussion open. Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). The government needs to speak! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Government intervenes in the reply. The general discussion did not take place, but the discussion on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling: the Government intervened at the end.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u78	Mr Lezzi (M5S). I believe that Senator Crosio referred to the request made by my colleagues in the League Group, for which this debate was suspended last time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The suspensive issue is a parliamentary instrument. Mr Lezzi (M5S). The government had granted us this delay, but precisely because of the request for explanations made by the colleagues of the League Group. At this point we do not understand why we are proceeding, if these explanations have not been given.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u79	We are proceeding because two parliamentary instruments have been presented and not just a request for clarification to the Government. The two instruments for non-entry into the debate were voted on and rejected, so we moved on to the general discussion. If the Government intends to intervene in order to clarify, we give the Government the floor, but procedurally this would not be the time when the Government intervenes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u82	Mr DASSU, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs. Madam President, at last sitting - as you will recall - the Government had indeed undertaken to provide an update on the ownership structure of the TAP company, since the technical report accompanying the transmission of the bill of ratification to the Senate had in the meantime changed. Therefore, I shall make such an update. I think it is important to distinguish first of all between the share ownership of TAP and that of the Shah Deniz consortium. The Shah Deniz consortium participated BP with 25.5 percent, Statoil with 25.5 percent, SOCAR with 10 percent, Total with 10 percent, Lukoil with 10 percent, NICO with 10 percent and TPAO with 9 percent. This consortium is the operator and owner of the homonymous natural gas deposit in the Caspian area. Trans Adriatic Pipeline AG is instead the joint venture, whose shareholders before July 2013 - when we transmitted the technical report - were Axpo, Statoil and E.ON, created for the design and construction of the trans-Adriatic pipeline. Following the choice by the Shah Deniz consortium of the TAP pipeline as a gas pipeline from the Caspian Sea (you will remember that it was an important diplomatic victory, if you like, against Nabucco West), some members of the Shah Deniz consortium - I pointed out earlier - have entered the company as it was in their rights. In short, they exercised their right of entry into the TAP share ownership. So, at this time, TAP's share ownership is composed of BP's English with 20%, SOCAR's Azerbaijani with 20%, Statoil's Norwegian with 20% (which was already part of the original share ownership), Total's French with 10% (all these mentioned are also members of Shah Deniz consortium), Fluxys Belgian with 16% (this is important because it is the strategic operator in the gas transport sector in Northern Europe), Axpo Swiss with 5% and E.ON German with 9%, which were instead part of TAP's original share ownership. This ownership structure shows how important TAP is for the international market. Another important fact is also made in the meantime, namely the recent sale of gas volumes, which took place on 19 September 2013. This turns out to be one of the largest sales in gas history, for an amount of about 200 billion dollars, through agreements lasting 25 years. The buyers of the gas from Shah Deniz's reservoir, through a route to TAP, are: ENEL, Hera, Shell, E.ON, Gas Natural Fenosa, GDF Suez, Axpo, Bulgargaz and DEPA. I emphasize the presence in these purchases of ENEL and Hera because they confirm the importance of the project for Italy (for us this is important as a strategic hub), but also for the purchase as such of important volumes of gas.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u83	Once these clarifications have been obtained, we shall proceed with the general discussion. Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u84	Madam President, at this point, first of all, I would like to say to my colleagues at SEL that in any case I thank them for supporting our question, but I cannot fail to say that this time they are brazen populism. President Vendola often accuses us of monkeying democracy. I remember that already with the decree of the economic development of 2010 it was demanded to the Regions to approve the new Italian network of pipelines. In that context something could have been done, and maybe Vendola could have said what he says now to the media, or when he is in front of a microphone or participates in the Fair of the Levant [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , or in the newspapers: "No, we don't want the pipeline! Then, however, for 30 days, received the decree of economic development in 2010, he lost himself in philosophical dissertations, fell asleep and silent assent was realized. It is curious and rather schizophrenic then the attitude of the PD. In fact, we have seen that colleagues in the PD, who have - let's say - their subordinate Apulian administrators who, are shocked because the territory has not been heard (but how, you make a pipeline and here you know nothing?), are very proud and in agreement with the ratification of this Agreement. Now, however, I would like to motivate my form of protest. I emphasize that they are Apulian and I know very well that wonderful area, which is frustrated by this work so violent and aggressive. I listened to the words of the famous Country Manager of TAP, the Russian engineer, spoken during an audition. I challenge the Undersecretary and the rapporteur to say again that this is an ambitious project that will only benefit our country. It is stated in the provision that only benefits and no disadvantages will arise and that diversification of energy sources would also increase the competitiveness of national companies by reducing the costs of the energy bill. At this point the Country manager answers my question - it is noted in the report of the session of the Commission - that he does not have to comment on the bending of the gas market; that whoever has read the relative data on the gas market from 2000 to 2012 has found that, from 2008 onwards, it has recorded a sensitive bending in the consumptions and that today our Country has an important mismatch between the nominal capacities of import of natural gases, that exceed 110 billion cubic meters. The Country Manager continues by saying that the spontaneous question that comes to many is whether we need more gas, but that the issue should not be put on the fact, precisely, that we need more gas or not, but from the point of view of what gas we need. And he decides: Russo arrives and decides the Parliament which gas Puglia, Italy and all Europe need, because in Italy this gas does not stop. He then goes on to say that the TAP, which actually carries the gas, does not deal with contracts, prices and margins. He is aware that the political support of the Government is based on the awareness that the gas coming through TAP aims to replace - I repeat: to replace, gentlemen - and not to diversify. It's a scam! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You're saying one thing for another, and you're singing paper. After this reply, I would like to ask why such a sound and competitive project has resorted to the exemption of the framework which provides for the right of access of third parties. The manager's response, that is to say the one who should do business, is disconcerting. I was shocked and you can also see it from the video recording of that session. Even Mr. Laanyone could do business like this! The answer is that the exemption, which is a sort of monopoly licence for 25 years, serves to guarantee the banking system that finances the project. Now we should go and tell our small businesses, choked by the credit crunch, and to which we try to give guarantees in order to have the four money necessary to pay taxes, that from us comes the TAP, comes the Country manager, to which we all screw, and give him 25 years of monopoly! Let's go tell the Italians that they will pay less the bill and businesses that they will have a lighter bill. But how? In the presence of a monopoly regime how can there be a saving? This, then, is a scam: Know that! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] My protest, that of the 5 Star Movement, has inherent in itself also the proposal that comes from you. The last Stability Act still allows for the extension of the ecobonus for 2014. I'd like to understand, Undersecretary De Vincenti, where we're going. It's about renewable energy, but it's about gas. It is said that the shale gas will come that you, with the state in the state, are saying to experiment in Ilva, but we make the gas pipeline coming from Azerbaijan. You don't have a plan, there's no vision! You're bent. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] because someone has come to tell this illustrious Parliament that this pipeline must be built! There is connivance, of course: I cannot believe that I am in a House in the midst of stupid people who do not understand... [[Comments.]] In fact, I can't believe it, so there's connivance, because there can't be that. It's impossible not to read a three-page agreement that says everything. Can you listen to the country manager say those things? I would also be able to do this: I would be able to do even better, having a 25-year-old monopoly and the guaranteed banking system. Thank you! Then talk to us about competence. Very well, thank you very much. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u85	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u86	Madam President, members of the Government, colleagues, all I can do is continue the protest, from a certain point of view, already begun by my colleague. The discourse always remains that: we cannot understand why all this Agreement is beneficial for some and not for others. Tell me, where is the advantage for our land? Where is the advantage that will come from the methane pipeline that will come to disembowel our lands? Tell me where the advantage will be. The only advantage that is expressed in all this project is for some: we are talking about the Italian Government, the people who have concluded the Agreement. This agreement has been concluded on the heads of some people who have not only been living on their land for years, they work on it, they produce it, and they have every intention of continuing to work on it and produce it, but if you continue to martyr the land and the people who work on it, tell me, what will remain? What do you want me to stay for? Only the profits of the big multinationals will remain, the profits of those who have all the advantages of concluding the Agreement, not of all those people who need to work. Because the TAP brings yes work, but brings its workers, it will certainly not take the workers who live in our lands. Salento is a beautiful land. How many of you come summer or winter to visit it, to vacation! How many of you will find in the sea these platforms that however continue to dig a underground pipeline, indeed two underground pipelines, one larger, the other smaller? Do you not think there will be a upheaval of the whole ecosystem? But apart from this, the terminal part of the gas pipeline that will be built on the surface of the land will pass through all Salento, all the coasts. Well, who will get profit from all this? We don't. And anyway, if you can accept such a project, it doesn't even bring work. It will only bring electricity, gas, but we already produce gas, abundantly. We have a coal-fired power station, power plants, photovoltaics that continue to install on the ground, on agricultural land. This is also another problem, because farmers can no longer exploit the land because they are massacred by so many factors, both in terms of work and taxes, and they continue to invest in our lands. I will repeat it infinitely: you continue to speculate on our lands. Keep taking sums into your pockets, but not into the pockets of the Italians, who need it more! Continue to cheat the Italians, who feel cheated and are tired of this life. They can't take it anymore! They can't take it anymore! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. Returning to the speech of the pipeline, it was said of the participations: the TAP is a foreign company, not Italian. As we have already explained, there are other connivances behind TAP. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator, but your time is up. I would therefore ask you to conclude, otherwise I shall have to take your word for it. WOMAN (M5S). I should like to conclude, Mr President, by recalling a sentence which should call for a better reflection and evaluation of the issue, perhaps by putting aside this ill-savory project. The words are not mine, I borrow them from Martin Luther King, who I imagine many people continue to estimate: You may not be responsible for the situation you are in. You will be if you do nothing to change. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u87	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u88	Madam President, first of all, I would like to be able to attach the full text of my speech to the documents. I begin by recalling the statements made by our President-in-Office this summer when he visited Azerbaijani President Aliyev: Today we are here to create a long-term opportunity for Italy on energy, because the costs of energy are the result of choices that are evident many years later and here we look for the solution to lower the bills in the coming years. Today is an important moment for Italians to have good surprises in the coming years. The cost of energy - added the president Letta - and other fiscal issues need an action, a decision, a Government and a Parliament that acts, takes decisions and leads in port reforms. I think that's what we're about to do today. Many times, in fact, we have held discussions in this House during which we have gathered our impetus from some important issues, such as the competitiveness of our companies on the markets and the ability to attract foreign investment in our territory. If, therefore, we want to start to be a consequence of these issues, on which we often agree, we must make strategic choices, and the ratification of the Agreement today in our examination is certainly a choice that goes in this direction. We know that the interdependence that today binds the various countries of the world on the supply of energy sources is something we measure in real time, and on this we realize concrete advantages or competitive disadvantages around the planet. Today, we need to make choices that will enable us to make our companies' competitiveness more secure than energy sources. Despite this, there are also differences in Europe, as is emerging from the round of hearings that we are holding in 10a. The Commission, which I believe is giving us an accurate picture of the state of the system. I am convinced that some of the statements that have been made here today do not address this issue properly and do not give it the right dimension. Today we are talking about an intervention that has an impact absolutely compatible with the territory; we are talking about an intervention that will give the possibility to gas distribution companies of our country to develop more opportunities on the Italian market. I therefore believe that the ratification of this agreement is a bit of a responsibility that we must assume today and that the draft law we are examining is in the right direction. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u89	Senator Collina, the Presidency authorizes you to hand over the full text of your speech so that it is annexed to the shorthand report of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u90	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u91	Madam President, in the limited time available to me I will try to make a complex reasoning. We are talking about a pipeline and therefore about sources of supply and differentiation. Great. The TAP is basically a pipe that leaves from Greece, crosses Albania and arrives in Italy. This tube is connected to another tube, the TANAP (Trans-Anatolian Gas Pipeline), which crosses all of Turkey and is then connected to another tube - the one that crosses Azerbaijan - to arrive at Shah Deniz's warehouse. We are talking about a transport potential of 10 billion cubic metres a year. The nice thing, though, is that this pipeline connects with the South Stream, another famous and very important pipe, which comes from an agreement made by Gazprom and ENI. Since these pipes are interconnecting and at some point, in Article 12 of the Agreement, it is basically established that, in case you cannot get gas from Azerbaijan, the Consortium will identify alternative sources of supply, the doubt comes to us. We have the doubt that this project will be used to transport Russian gas. Therefore, if we link this pipeline to those carrying Russian gas, what have we diversified, colleagues? There was another alternative project - and this is the mistake - the Nabucco, (you know) that had to bring gas not only from Azerbaijan but also from Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan, but the gas pipeline that crosses the Caspian Sea is not done because the Russians do not want it. So, since this pipeline could theoretically also be interconnected with Iraqi gas, what are we diversifying? Who makes gas policy in this country? Does the State or does Paolo Scaroni do it? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That famous Paolo Scaroni we remember admitting to have paid bribes for ENEL. Do we remember that we put this gentleman in charge of ENI? Before he was head of ENEL - the Berlusconi government put him there - and now we put him in charge of ENI. This gentleman is doing energy policy, in agreement with the former President of the Council! So, let's be careful. If we want to do something useful for this country, let's look at all the technical aspects. The transport capacity of the Italian pipeline network is used for a low 85 percent; we have another 15 percent to use. We then have a beautiful report from the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, gentlemen, which tells us that the amount of gas that will be used in Italy increases. Well, the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti takes as its first figure 2012 (the report is from March 2013), but it forgets to say that since 2005 the amount of gas used in Italy has decreased by 20 percent. So, we reduce the amount of gas used in Italy and what do we do? Let's say the predictions increase. Gentlemen, this is the Deposit and Loan Fund! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Deposit and Loan Bank should do some serious technical analysis, because these are not the cards with which we are going to justify the construction of a pipe! We have to be careful. In recent months the production of electricity from renewable sources has covered 100% of the Italian demand and 42 percent of the imported gas serves to make electricity. Then we are contradicting ourselves. We should understand these things. We should understand that this tube is of no use, unfortunately. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This tube, in fact, when it arrives in Puglia, will have to be connected to another pipeline that must cross the entire Adriatic ridge; it is a pipeline that is building Saipem, we are building it. Moreover, we took the contract in the South Stream project; ENI must spend EUR 10 billion. I mean, gentlemen, we're talking about a fake problem here. We're hiding a big deal behind the TAP hypothesis. We need to realize what we're doing. If it is true that it is right to diversify energy sources, we should have had the courage to do so seriously and not to once again support Russian gas. It is true that Russia is an important partner, but it is not the only one that must have strength in Europe. We need to be able to figure out what we're doing, and we should study. I am once again saying in this House that it would be good for us to study a little more. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Because this would better address the issues; we would be more aware of the technique. We need to learn to study and tell the Deposit and Loan Fund that the analyses they give us are wrong. Gentlemen, it's the Deposit and Loan Fund! The one we use for everything! It's our safe! We should be a little more serious. I invite everyone to study and understand that this tube really doesn't do any good. And if we all analyzed and understood this, maybe we wouldn't vote for this stuff. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u92	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the TAP, the gas pipeline we are talking about that brings to Europe the Azerbaijani gas from the important field of Shah Deniz 2, is of fundamental importance with a view to a policy of diversification of energy sources, enabling us to reduce energy dependence from various states and, in particular, Russia. The path of the TAP has profound political implications, with relative consequences on the internal balances of the European Union which, had to choose between the two projects TAP and Nabucco West, inserted in the Southern Gas Corridor, that is, the European energy project relating to gas coming from the caspian and Middle Eastern regions. The TAP passes through Greece, Albania and Italy, giving considerable contractual power to the southern front of Europe, since a pipeline, in addition to the revenues due to the rights of passage, is still a tap in the hands of the country where the pipe passes; it was preferred to the one called Nabucco, which instead had a continental route through the Balkan Europe, with several branches planned and the point of arrival Austria. Today the measure that we are called to examine is intended to authorize the ratification of the agreement on the pipeline between the Government of the Italian Republic, the Government of the Republic of Albania and the Government of the Greek Republic concluded in Athens on 13 February 2013. The TAP, designed to convey 21 billion cubic meters of Azerbaijani gas in Italy, will extend for about 900 kilometers, starting from the Greek-Turkish border, crossing Albania and the Adriatic Sea and landing on the southern coasts of Italy from where it will connect to the Italian gas transport network managed by SNAM ReteGas. The international consortium Shaz Deniz 2, which was responsible for the contract award decision, preferred the TAP, as it was considered economically and technically more advanced for the transport of Azerbaijani gas in Europe. It is clear that in addition to the companies that are part of the Shah Deniz 2 Consortium, Greece, Albania and Italy will be the main beneficiaries. It is also clear that the decision to involve Azerbaijani gas through the TAP redefines Italy's position in energy balances, as the project represents an important opportunity to secure access to the energy resources of a region in potential expansion, thus decreasing dependence on Russia and strengthening national energy security and the role of the country as the strategic hub of European gas. It is essential for national and international energy development to make Italy an important crossroads of gas, a southern European hub, intended as an entrance bridge to the Europe of gas from the South-East and therefore for the opening of the Southern Corridor. TAP is the only way of accessing the Caspian Sea's resources to the Italian and later European markets, the so-called missing link. The support given by the Italian Government to TAP is based on the awareness of its expected contribution to the reduction of the total cost of the gas bill, estimated in the National Energy Strategy to 6.5 billion euros, as well as the economic repercussions (direct, indirect and induced). There is talk of a consistency, already under construction, of 290 million euros per year in the single phase of construction between direct, indirect and induced effects until 2018, with more than 2,200 jobs per year, and yet another 380 million in the next fifty years linked to the operational phase, with clear positive effects in terms of GDP consumption and higher tax revenues. The pipeline has been recognised by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union as a project of common interest in line with the guidelines of the Trans-European Energy Network (TEN-E). I conclude by saying that the benefits of this strategic work are obvious. There is also an ideological vision of the European Union at stake. It is clear that the development and future implementation of gas projects will substantially redefine global geopolitical balances, as the economic aspects will be interwoven with complex political calculations of the countries in question, which are profoundly different in historical, economic, religious and cultural contexts. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u94	Senator Petrocelli, who will also present the G100 agenda during his speech (text2). You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u95	Madam President, having only four minutes available, I leave from the end. On the agenda G100 (text 2) we ask for a firm, precise and unique commitment to the Government. We ask him to observe closely the provisions of national environmental impact assessment, strategic environmental assessment and integrated environmental authorisation standards. We understand, from the reading of the Agreement, that in Article 6 the Government undertakes to speed up the granting of all necessary authorizations. This article commits the Contracting States to take all appropriate measures to facilitate the implementation of the Project in their own territory, including the granting of all necessary authorization (...). This seems to us - as we clearly say on the agenda - in antinomy with all the existing national rules on environmental impact assessment. This concerns the G100 agenda (text 2). In the short time I have left, I come back to what my colleague from the PdL said before me about the taps and the lines that will pass from our country, and I do this to say that this operation carried out by the Government to me seems inappropriate, for a very simple reason. To make Italy the energy hub of Europe is not a boast; it is not a far-sighted policy, as my colleagues of the 5 Star Movement have already pointed out, so much so that, with regard to the Trans Adriatic Pipeline, Dr Scaroni himself, amply described by my colleague Cioffi, had to say, in a hearing in 10a Commission, that this work was a quisquilia, in which ENI and Snam had not wanted to enter. Well, if His Eminence Scaroni says so, indeed his ENI-nenz Scaroni, we must also believe it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Making Italy the energy hub of Southern or Northern Europe (because we are always the South of a Northern Europe) implies something that is not written in the TAP project. The gas coming from Azerbaijan is not at no cost, but it already comes at some cost on the Apulian coast; then what happens? It goes to the Snam network, that is, it often happens, and it will continue to happen, which is also stored in now unproductive oil wells. This is an operation that surely runs the risk that it happens in two Italian Regions: Basilicata and Abruzzo (the colleague rightly tells me also in Lombardy, but Lombardy has little to do with the image I want to give). Why Abruzzo and Basilicata? Because, from the geographic form they have, it is easy to imagine these two regions, already quite tormented for environmental issues, like two gigantic gas knobs. Take Basilicata and Abruzzo: if you imagine them, President? These speculators who put gas underground, millions of cubic meters under our butt, because they speculate buying at low prices and then selling in winter at high prices, want to use our territories as two gigantic gas knobs: turn, open, turn, close, when it suits them. If anything, the proceeds should not be given to speculators, South Stream and all other pipelines that pass through, but should - but will not - be deducted from the citizens' bill. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u96	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u97	Madam President, I would like to say that it is sufficient to listen to the speech by my colleague from the PDL who has just spoken to find the reasons for opposing the TAP project. With this project, in fact, another course is created and the possibility is given to create taps to all the nations that are crossed, with the ability to close them: we have found someone else who can decide to close the tap and not to let the gas arrive. Moreover, we take into account the fact that the more nations are crossed, the greater the refills. Albania, for example, is very happy to have a pipe passing through its territory, because in this way it can say that there is a reload represented by royalties, rights of passage. But something else has been said here that in itself, without beginning to argue, is sufficient to show that the TAP project should not be implemented. I am referring to the fact that the gas from the Azerbaijani reservoir would not stop in Italy. This means that we do not need this methane, since it is going to Northern Europe. But if we don't need methane, we don't even need the infrastructure network that should carry it. Entering into the detail of the issue, we see how in fact we do not need it either in itself, as a concept of methane supply, or within the very painful national energy strategy that someone sold us as the panacea of all evils and that it is a revisitation of the energy strategies of the 1970s, when it was said that we had to go looking outside energy sources because we did not have them. Later, it was said that we had to diversify, and so we went to get methane, that now we have to unpack into so many "metanini" that come from the various regions where there is still some. Premise. There are 13 major lines of methane supply for Europe. In Italy two arrive and this would be the third. This third director currently has a transport capacity of ten billion cubic metres per year, which can be carried up to twenty. This is in contradiction to the mining capacity of Shah Deniz, which has a capacity of 2 billion cubic meters, so the work is "lightly" oversized, of a factor 5 or 10. You don't understand why you should spend more money carrying something that would easily pass into a tube or tube. As has rightly been pointed out, Europe's methane needs are 500 billion cubic metres per year, so the famous TAP is also irrelevant from the point of view of European supply; but it is also irrelevant for Italy, because consumption (source of the Ministry of Economic Development, and therefore incontrovertible data) is equal to 78 billion cubic metres, of which 28 billion for domestic heating and 30 billion for electricity generation. The 28 billion for domestic heating is far beyond the transport capacity of that single pipeline. So if it really were worth the reasoning of the utility of that methane, through a job that would create employment, energy redevelopment, we could say that we have spared the equivalent of that amount of methane and therefore not needing the TAP. That would actually create employment. The TAP, on the other hand, would also create for us a passing bondage. We would be forced to have this tube, owned exclusively for 25 years by a private consortium, passing through the garden, and looking at it we would say: "How beautiful it is!." On the limit, we could pay someone to come and watch it, and maybe we'll come back with environmental costs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, the reasoning for using methane for domestic consumption does not even apply. But neither does the reasoning that methane serves us as part of a painful energy strategy. In fact, just as we don't need methane, we don't need coal and oil, at least not from the point of view of a sensible strategy. Another argument in favour of methane was that methane is a cheap source of energy generation. Unfortunately, the Americans have put in place legislation on the emissions of coal-fired power stations that has actually put them out of the market. So they set emission limits for mercury, which means that no coal-fired power plants can be built anymore (and that's a good thing!) and flood the world market with their damn coal because they don't know who to give it to anymore. They then sought the shale gas (the shale gas) not because it is good, but because they went to seek a local satisfaction of their energy needs. There is therefore a low-cost coal and we spend more than EUR 3 billion around the world to buy coal from both steam and industrial use. Therefore, when we talk about an energy strategy that involves going to buy something at high cost outside our country we could also think about how to better invest all this money. By the way, electricity generation and the production of thermal energy from fossil sources cause numerous pathologies and several deaths. Some have counted: 22,500 deaths each year in Europe are caused by the emissions of clean coal-fired power plants that the national energy strategy wants to carry on. We are therefore talking about all the health costs associated with 22,500 deaths. When you think about where to find the money, just think about where to throw them away and maybe stop throwing them away. Let's move on. Some say that renewables cannot be properly integrated in this context, because they are too expensive. Then someone made the bill: our energy bills, secondary energy and electric noble, have increased by 177 percent in the last ten years. Given that the renewable component is 13%, it means that it alone should have been increased by 875 percent in the last ten years, which clearly has not happened. As a result, all theories supporting fossil fuel supply for energy generation against the competitiveness of renewables also do not hold up. I want to close with a consideration for those who say it can't be done. Professor Mark Z. Jacobson, of Stanford University, in 2009 developed a plan to make the State of New York energy-efficient, which is notoriously not a small state (140,000 square kilometers of extension and 19 million inhabitants) and is very energetic. With a clever mix of renewable sources, the plan plans to cover the entire energy needs, both primary and electric, for a total of 110 gigawatts of power. So when you say you can't do it, the answer is, someone has already done it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Another thing that could be done to reduce and thus invest our money better would be to simplify or better remodel the system in which the exchange of renewable energy is managed. In fact, for you to know, if on the roof of my building I decide to put the photovoltaic panels and generate electricity I cannot self consume: I have to sell to the net and buy back, because it is a shared user. If we really want to find a way to invest, another way is to encourage the rent of the roof, as is already done in other nations. Investments can be hijacked in the following way: I rent you a roof and you put the photovoltaic panel there; for all the years I do maintenance and I do not claim anything, but at the end of time I have recovered my investment; I have earned it, after which I give it to you: it is yours for the rest of your life. So there are ways to generate energy without the TAP and without fossil sources, and they create many more jobs, and especially local jobs. As has already been widely said, the workforce required for the construction of these infrastructures is provided directly by companies. Statoil brings its staff (who is overpaid) to do those jobs. They would never dream of hiring local staff with contract staff. To conclude, I don't know how many of you have ever seen how the process of laying methane pipelines happens, because when they do rendering, i.e. computer simulation, they always show the first and the next. It seems like something nice: before there was the lawn, now there is the lawn, so nothing happened. No one ever shows what happens in the passageway. The impact is devastating. The dragons they have to dig are enormous and this - as my colleague Mr Cioffi rightly said - does not only concern the landing point of the gas pipeline, the cliff in San Foca near Melendugno. It covers the whole national territory, because the gas pipeline should interconnect with several points, since Italy is not the source of methane production. The points of origin are: Algeria, Morocco, Norway, Russia and all areas of the oil fields of the Caspian Sea, because where there is oil there is methane. The moment you're not the source, you're nothing but the last ring, that is, the one that suffers. So, we will have a passing bondage, we suffered a devastating impact on the territory, maximum negative costs and externalities, and we don't even need it! Therefore, I invite you to reflect on the realization of this work that is of no use to us at all. We don't do it either; Snam Rete Gas doesn't do it, Saipem doesn't do it, but a private consortium does it. Who's making the money? What are the promises under this Agreement? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u98	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak as a spokesperson by means of a joint text with activists from Umbria, activists from the No-Tube Committee and, of course, activists from the Apulian No-TAP Committee. The TAP pipeline has long been presented to us as a major work of European and national interest. Another great work. But the company proposing the TAP is based in a nation not part of the European Community and, however, known as a tax paradise (Switzerland, in the canton of Zug). It is therefore appropriate to consider at this stage at least doubtful, or not certain, the use of the enormous gains from the marketing of gas. The company structure of the TAP, among other things, was clarified only a few moments ago. The ratification of this agreement would now mean putting a mortgage on a project that has recently passed the authorization process despite the contrary opinion of the Region Puglia, phase during which the first track was rejected by the competent bodies. The second track, presented on 10 September last, presents a clear incomplete and deficient design, while the ratification of the trilateral agreement Italy-Albania-Greece would instead impose a positive decision on our country in the environmental impact assessment, which is currently not taken for granted. We are taking some future steps for granted without a concrete basis of work. As reported by the CEO of ENI, Paolo Scaroni, again, on September 24 last, the price of gas in Italy is aligned with that of France and Germany, but compared to a transport capacity practically double compared to consumption. This additional infrastructure should, given the features borne by Snam Rete Gas, have an impact on the infrastructure voice of the Italian users' bill, which aggravates market conditions. The populations concerned have expressed themselves contrary to the work, even with junta resolutions of many municipalities, such as Melendugno, Caprarica, Castri di Lecce and Vernole. Everyone has spoken against and a number of other municipal councils are preparing to do so. The Italian gas distribution paths are not yet clear. The area in which TAP's project of competence ends has not yet been equipped with sufficient infrastructure to receive the work. The gas pipeline that ends in a depressurization station occupies an area of 12 hectares, is 80 kilometers away from the connection to the national network and is located at a distance of 1000 kilometers from the point of delivery of the European gas hub located in Austria. The areas affected by the current project, with a port between the protected oasis of the Cesine and the Messapic excavations of Roca Vecchia, have a strong tourist vocation, and in these years have been awarded several times with the 5 sails of Legambiente, and with the Blue Flag for even 5 years in a row. Not assessing the social and economic environmental impact would mean condemning to death a sector that has guaranteed work to more than 4000 employees in the 2013 summer season alone. In the explorations aimed at documenting the environmental impact, the TAP has already caused environmental damage that are the subject of an ARPA Puglia information and the opening of a file by the Lecce Public Prosecutor for the crime of damage. In the aforementioned exploratory explorations TAP has severely damaged fish workers of the marina of San Foca, with which a dispute has opened relative to the damages. The TAP pipeline, which reaches the north of the San Foca marina in an area of high tourist and environmental value, winds for about 8 kilometers between pine forests, olive groves, woods, farms, with a huge belt of servitude, stopping in an area located between the towns of Calimera, Melendugno, Vernole and Castri, where an industrial area of 12 hectares will be built to decompress, measure and heat the gas with concentrated emissions to the combustion gas chimney for about 6,6 megawatts and emissions into the atmosphere of unburnt gas resulting from the safe operation of the still unquantified plant. In addition, the distance of urban agglomerations in some cases is less than 200 metres. Snam currently has no plans to bring gas from the area to the delivery points of the national and European network. In conclusion, we are therefore very concerned about the ratification of this agreement, which is still lacking in design and does not offer guarantees and sustainability to the communities concerned. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u100	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u101	Mr President, since we are at the political and parliamentary level, I think it is appropriate to respond in political terms to all the remarks made by the nostalgics of peasant civilization, when the average life expectancy was 30 years, there were diseases, there was misery. And it is clear that the development of the country has been closely linked to a development also energy that has allowed to lengthen the average life span and to have resources for health care, for the assistance and for that economic take-off that we have known above all in the post-war period. I would like to remind my colleagues of the fact that Italy is a country that has given up nuclear power. I did not agree, but I note that, while nuclear power stations have them all over Europe and we faint to buy nuclear power from the French, we have rejected it. I would point out that we have also rejected the energy plan of Passera, which covered the extraction of gas and oil, because throughout Italy the regions and committees are opposed to the extraction of gas or oil on land or at sea. So, no nuclear, no gas extraction, no oil extraction. The United States has been reminded that they would sell us coal. But the United States, thanks to gas extraction, the technologies that the 5 Star Movement rejects, have reduced the cost of energy by 90 percent, are self-sufficient and risk - they do - with the low costs of energy to colonize the world. But it's not enough. We are talking about alternative energy sources, photovoltaics: of course, we are talking about the 7, 8, 10, 20 billion euros that come from the pockets of Italians to finance public contributions to those who buy Chinese technology. As long as there are Italian families to pay, photovoltaic works, when the public contributions will end the photovoltaic will be totally out of market, it will no longer work, and the costs of disposal you do not understand who will have to support them. Let us then recapitulate the reasoning of those who oppose the fact that gas comes from abroad: nuclear no, oil extraction no, gas extraction no, coal no, alternative energies that cost an eye of the head. [[Comments of the 5 Star Movement Group.]] We must depend on Libya and Russia. I would like to inform my colleagues that the ceramics sector is closing down, as well as that of metal engineering. Our companies are out of the market because they have an infinitely higher cost of energy than other European countries, and Italian families are choked by a cost of bills that is prohibitive, because alternative energies are very beautiful, but when it is night or when it rains they do not work. So we need an alternative circuit that doubles the possibility of intervention. I would like to conclude by reminding those who want to accuse those who look ahead with this pipeline that with their recipes would lead the country to misery and families to despair. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u102	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u103	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u104	Madam President, we have heard a lot of arguments; I would not like to expand the debate by addressing the issues referred to by Senator Giovanardi. Surely the problems have always been the subject of discussion in recent years and surely some things that have been said by Senator Giovanardi have an actual importance. Two, mostly. The first energy in Italy has an average cost of 30% higher than in other European countries. For a thousand reasons, but it's a fact. The price of energy is higher because the non-industrial costs of energy, i.e. incentives also related to renewables, but also the costs of execution and those induced are significantly higher than those of other countries. I remind the Senators of the 5 Star Movement that the photovoltaic and solar system operates on average for 1,500 hours in the Southern Regions and for 1,000 hours in those of the North on 8,760 hours total annual. That is the problem of renewables. However, the system of incentives applied has allowed to reach today a percentage of production from renewable sources, including photovoltaics, very high, comparable to that of Germany, which has brought an advantage: in certain hours of the day the industrial cost of energy tends to zero. However, there is another problem related to renewable energies, especially solar ones, which cannot be accumulated: experiments have been carried out, in-depth studies have been carried out so that we can reach the accumulation, but at the moment it is not yet allowed in the terms in which the industrial system would need it. If we were to deal with this, we would have hours and hours of discussion. However, I wanted to focus, if possible, on the intervention of Senator Cioffi, who had focused on Article 12 of the Agreement, in whose final part it was said that, in case the trans-Adriatic pipeline was not selected by the Consortium Shah Deniz for the transport of natural gas, TAP will identify, in agreement with the parties, alternative sources of supply. This is not in connection with the South Stream project, which is quite different, because it goes farther and will hardly be able to connect with the TAP project. Among other things, that project, even if a memorandum of understanding between Russia and Italy has been signed and could theoretically represent a major contribution that would go far beyond the Italian needs, from a direction that would however be balanced with respect to the overall panorama of the supply of gas in our country, very hardly could connect to the TAP that we are talking about today. I believe, by reasoning on general energy policy, beyond the National Energy Strategy (SEN), which still needs to be defined in detail and which perhaps this Government will succeed in bringing to conclusion the study and deepening, that our country needs diversification, because it cannot remain without energy: our country is a country projected in the Mediterranean, and objectively, structurally and geographically it is an energy hub of Europe; therefore it is obliged to take gas from all sides (from the East, from the North, from the South: not from the West because there is no possibility of supplies from that direction). I believe that this project is also part of this reasoning and strategy and I think that this measure, with all the necessary guarantees that are contained in it, is very useful to our country. [[Applause from the PdL and LN-Aut groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u105	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u106	The government has followed with great interest the discussion that has developed in the Senate Chamber already in previous sessions and then in today's. I would like to respond to some of the points that emerged in the discussion, highlighting some features of the TAP project, which, in the opinion of the Italian Government, make it a strategic project for our country. First of all, clarification about the role that gas supplies have in the National Energy Strategy. The National Energy Strategy provides for two fundamental axes of the energy mix in Italy in the coming years and in the medium to long term: gas and renewables. We believe that the role of oil must be reduced, not least because it has a higher environmental impact and because we think that in promoting renewables there is still a long transition period in which other energy sources will be needed. The rapporteur, Senator Paolo Romani, has just clarified this that I believe is a fundamental point to take into account in order to guarantee our country energy in quantity, at prices and in safety conditions. Hence the role that the gas sector plays within the National Energy Strategy, the role that plays the diversification of sources of gas supply, that in the strategy passes mainly for two international pipelines that are the TAP and the GALSI and for the development of the regasifiers, that they allow ulterior differentiation of sources of supply also from Countries not connected through pipelines. The key point is the diversification of sources of gas supply, for the sake of the country's strategic security of course, but also for competition purposes. In particular, the procedure for exemption from third party access has been critically invoked; I recall that this is a European procedure, conducted by the Italian Electricity and Gas Authority, together with the Authorities of other countries, under the coordination of the European Commission. It is a European-wide procedure to facilitate the diversification of gas supply and supply sources. It is therefore fully part of the European strategy of security and competition, because it multiplies those who can bring gas to the European area. I stress a second aspect, represented by the fact that in the national energy strategy it is essential that our country, besides to cure the diversification of the sources of supply, cares its full integration within the single European market, from which comes the attention to the interconnection of the Italian networks with those European and the role of Italy as hub of the gas for Europe. This means a fully integrated Italy in the single market (and therefore prices leveled at European level, which means for our country the reduction of the price of gas) and also an Italy that becomes a country of transit and export of energy and not only more of import. This is a very important step forward in terms of competition and market contensibility. I would like to add a clarification regarding the advance pricing agreements provided for in Article 9 of the Treaty. Article 9 does not prescribe that prices will remain stable for twenty-five years, but that the criteria for the correct allocation of revenues by the TAP consortium for tax purposes vis-à-vis the countries crossed by the TAP will remain valid for twenty-five years; then, within those criteria, the situation will evolve on the basis of data that, from time to time, will be realized, for example in relation to prices, and so on. I have already focused on the strategicity of the TAP. As mentioned in some speeches, it is confirmed by the fact that the TAP is considered a priority project by the European Commission and plays an essential role in the security of our country and Europe. I add only a few indications about the role that the Government intends to play in the implementation and then, in the coming weeks, in the conduct of the ongoing public consultation on the project, in particular in the Puglia region. We will pay close attention to the characteristics of the project and its environmental impact: this is a priority concern of the Government, together with the Apulian community. I remember that the project, from an environmental point of view, today uses the most advanced technologies both in the construction phase of the pipeline, and in the safe management of the pipeline. The economic benefits that can derive from the project are first of all for our country; as I mentioned earlier, it means differentiation of sources of supply, greater liquidity of the market and therefore reduction and containment of prices, as well as competitiveness of the market. Not surprisingly, leading Italian companies such as ENEL and Hera have concluded supply contracts from this pipeline. I would add that, in addition to the - I repeat - strategic advantages for Italy, there are economic benefits also for the Apulian territory, which we will discuss and evaluate in the coming weeks with the local communities. The studies available give us a significant impact on the investment costs side during the construction phase of the project, with significant effects in terms of jobs - we speak of at least 340 employed in the province of Lecce alone - including also the effects on the induced throughout the Apulian territory, with more than 2,000 jobs. In addition, even in the management phase, the pipeline will ensure investments, the creation of gross domestic product and revenue from gas transport services, as well as jobs related to gas pipeline management. We have these significant benefits. There is nothing to say that it will be essential to ensure the utmost attention on the environmental impact side, and this is exactly the assessment being carried out through the environmental impact assessment process, which is conducted with public evidence in these weeks. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u107	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u108	The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the draft law in title, expresses, as far as its competence is concerned, a non-obstacle opinion, on the assumption that the Ratification and subsequent implementation of the Agreement will not have direct effects on the revenue from it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u109	We shall now proceed to the agendas, which have already been discussed during the general debate and on which I invite the representative of the Government and the rapporteur to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u110	With regard to the G100 agenda (text 2), the Government gives a favourable opinion on the arrangement, which corresponds exactly to what I said in my reply. The acceptance, however, is conditioned by the fact that the premises and the considered are expunged in full, because they recall positions completely different from those that led the Government to promote the TAP project that I recalled in my reply. With regard to the G200 agenda (text 2), I would first of all ask that the premises and considerations be removed from the agenda, which are again going in a different direction from the positions of the Government. With regard to the operative part, the Government gives a favourable opinion on the first commitment provided that it is reworded in the sense of eliminating the words that follow the word "VIA". It would sound like this: to apply strictly national and European environmental impact assessment (EIA) legislation. I would like to take this opportunity to explain that the strategic environmental impact assessment is not planned on the individual structure, but on overall plans (e.g. on Terna's investment plan). I repeat, it's not on the single structure. The second commitment is not accepted, while the third one would be accepted if the adjective "normative" were removed; therefore, it would act as follows: "to intervene with all the instruments necessary to assert itself" etc. The fourth commitment cannot be accepted because it runs counter to European legislation relating in particular to the single energy market: no European country is asking for economic counterpart to Europe for the transition of energy infrastructure networks. Therefore, with a request such as the one provided for in the fourth commitment, we would immediately go into infringement proceedings. In conclusion, the G200 agenda (text 2) can be accepted only with regard to the first commitment to the environmental impact assessment and the third commitment by removing the adjective "normative". The Government cannot - I repeat - express a favourable opinion on the second commitment because consultation is ongoing and not even on the fourth commitment because it is contrary to European legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u111	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u112	I ask the first agenda presenters, Senators Mussini and De Petris, if they will accept the rewordings proposed by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u113	I would like to confirm to the Undersecretary whether I understood correctly: the G100 agenda (text 2) would remain the mechanism by expelling all the considerations and premises. It's a curious request, however we accept it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u114	Madam President, I find it a little unbelievable that the government can accept the agenda provided that all the premises are deleted. Among other things, I do not understand why that part of the mechanism concerning the presence of an ongoing public consultation should also be removed from the agenda. Among other things, I would add to the Undersecretary that this is a consultation that does not include the zero option, that is, it is not a real discussion, as with the Anglo-Saxon system. Frankly, it's a bit of a curious request. So, as far as we're concerned, we can't accept the government's demands. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So, the government's opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u117	DE VINCENTI, State Secretary for Economic Development. I would like to make it clear that the opinion is against the G200 agenda (text 2). To clarify, just as the consultation is in progress I want it to come to an end; then, on the basis of what the consultation will tell me, I can also think of changing the project. The zero option is unacceptable by definition, because the project - as I said - is strategic for the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u118	Having been accepted by the Government, the G100 agenda (text 3) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G200 agenda (text 2). MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G200 (text 2), presented by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of discussion of draft law No. 384
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u121	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I will be annoying, but I repeat to my fellow Members: I will always be here, with my breath on my neck! Among the benches of the People of Freedom Group, on my left, there is yet another pianist who voted. If you like, Mr President, I will come in person and tell you which card I refer to.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u122	Thank you, Senator Santangelo. However, it is not for you to verify in person: for this reason there are the Secretary Senators. SANTANGELO (M5S). However, I would ask the Presidency to take the appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u125	MARTELLI (M5S). We are calling for a roll-call vote by simultaneous electronic ballot of all the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u126	Senator Martelli, unfortunately you cannot make such a request for articles. Nominal voting by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, must be required for each article and this says the Rules of Procedure. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 2. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No. 884 PRESIDENT. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 3. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Resumption of the debate on the draft law No. 884 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote Rule 4. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Colleagues, no request has been made for a roll-call vote on Article 4 by simultaneous ballot, so that the vote was taken by show of hands. I invite you to have a little more ready reflexes! [[Reiterate protests from the M5S Group.]] Colleagues, as I mentioned earlier, nominal voting by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, cannot be requested for all articles: if anything, you can ask for all the amendments relating to an article.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u129	SANTANGELO (M5S). Excuse me, Madam President, please be kind. If it's a speed race between my reflexes and yours, I can assure you that mine are ready. I am here on every item, and please look at me: I will always ask for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot. I did it again this time, but she didn't look at me. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u130	Senator Santangelo, I am courteous, and indeed, in some cases, your request for simultaneous voting was followed up even if the Presidency had not seen it. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of Article 4. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Comments of Senators Marino Luigi and Airola.]] Senator Marino, I invite you not to overreact. Resumption of discussion of draft law No. 384
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u133	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, our Group will vote against ratification of the Agreement when we consider it. All the replies that have been made to the various requests for explanation, both from the Roman rapporteur and the representative of the Government, as well as those that have been given now on the agenda, have strengthened us even more in the idea that we are not talking about a strategic work for national interests. Evidently, we have very different ideas about the interests of the country. Moreover, Secretary De Vincenti, considering the matter from an environmental point of view, the real aspect of the matter is that with the ratification that we are proceeding today we are committed to authorising, however, the construction of the pipeline. Therefore, even if you have spoken in favour of compliance with the EIA legislation, in the end, even if there is evidence of a significant environmental impact on the coast and the sea - as it is - we would still be in some way obliged to provide the authorisations; so much so that you have just said that you will carry out a public consultation with the local people, with the citizens and with the associations, but the only solution that is not conceivable is that of the zero option. The Secretary also referred to some experimental technical issues, but if these were not feasible, it is not clear - and we have already discussed this - what alternative options might be. However, these are technical issues. In his opinion on the last item on the G200 agenda (text 2), the Under-Secretary also stated that it is absolutely impossible to ask Europe for compensation for the territories involved and for the country, as there would be a European infringement procedure. Also recalling the attention of my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, I would like to point out that what is being done by many (also members of the majority) at the territorial level is propaganda, not only with the usual vague promise of jobs but also of who knows what repercussions and economic compensation on the territories themselves. The government's rejection of that item on the agenda also makes it clear once and for all the terms of the matter. The rapporteur and the Undersecretary have given a great deal of thought to the issue of national strategic interest. I would like to remind everyone that the National Energy Strategy was last-minute approved by a government that had already fallen, as the elections had already been held. We have repeatedly called for a debate at last in this House and in the Commissions to take a decision on the National Energy Strategy, because we believe that there are many issues that need to be addressed. It is not possible, even considering the text of the bill, not to realize that Italy already makes its contribution from the European perspective of the differentiation of energy supplies: we are talking about an annual consumption of 78 billion cubic metres of gas while in the national network we already have 117 billion. We must accept the infrastructure, so we are in fact imposing on Puglia a real servitude, moreover with the combined arrangement that you now consider to be subject to militarization all infrastructure works of national strategic interest. It is as if we were in fact going to the territories to impose some sort of military servitude. In reply to some of my fellow senators about the issues raised about the role of the Puglia Region, I would like to remind you that when you do a battle to achieve a goal you should also build a system of alliances, in this case to prevent a certain work from being carried out. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, allow Senator De Petris to speak. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). In this regard, the contrary views expressed by the Region on the project have also been mentioned, not least by Senator Lucidi. As for the National Energy Strategy for gas pipelines, it is good to remember the failure to convene, at the time, the Region itself by the Ministry. Here, however, we are trying, even after this vote, to ensure that that work does not represent an economic damage to that Region. As I mentioned by explaining the suspensive issue, in that area we had an increase from the tourist point of view, precisely because of the quality of the landscape and the territory, which this work risks to question. I would also like to point out that there is already an ongoing investigation because, as a result of the carrots and the surveys carried out to evaluate the work, damage has already been found. That means... (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u134	Colleagues, the volume of the bustle in this House is too high and does not allow Senator De Petris to make his speech. I would pray to those who are not interested in explanations of vote to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u135	.. .this means that we are very concerned, and I hope that the commitment to environmental impact assessment and compliance with the legislation is very binding. I repeat, we are really concerned about the environmental impact on the territory. I repeat again, since it was all the cornerstone of our reasoning, that it is an environmental, economic and social impact that risks being highly negative. With regard to the National Energy Strategy, I would like to respond to the rapporteur, Mr Romani, who has been very distinguished in his work as Minister for putting the development of renewable energy at risk (maybe someone will remember that). I think it is necessary to re-examine the SEN and do a serious job in a serious country, which begins to discuss, to put the dots on the "s" and to indicate the path for its energy transition. Senator Romani, maybe you're distracted even when people are talking. [[Call the president back.]] You do not care, but be careful, because fortunately some agenda is adopted, even if you, because you are very distracted, notice it at the last minute and also try to interfere, as happened on the spot trade. Accumulations are a real possibility for our country. When I say that we have to discuss, as we have proposed many times, I mean that incentives must start to be oriented on the systems of accumulations, because today know how we can have it and we already have it in Italian companies; if we wait again we will repeat what happened with photovoltaic panels, which we import entirely from China. In fact, we must finance and support innovation if we want to be serious people and not rely on ourselves, because a serious national energy strategy for the country means first of all not to sanction dependence on foreign countries. On this we must choose, and the measure under consideration is a further limitation to sovereignty and the possibility of achieving a true and renewable energy transition, respectful of the Kyoto Protocol (this is in fact a ratification, but that does not respect it), worthy of a country that really wants to look to its own future. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u138	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, the Lega Nord Group has already stated that it is in favour of the draft law in the vote, but, as has happened before, we had pointed out to the Government (which took note of this and asked for a postponement of the examination of the measure) the errors and criticalities that we have found within the text under consideration. In summary, these were three points: the first concerned the company composition, the second concerned a clarification on Article 9 concerning taxes and the third point, perhaps the most important, was related to the presence or participation of our country in this project. Let's go by order. As for the company composition, we thank the Undersecretary for the answers; in fact he said what we had pointed out to him in the previous session in a more articulated way, but to make everyone understand well how things are, in essence, the consortium, that is, the group of companies that at this moment constitutes the drilling consortium, has moved within the shareholding of the Trans Adriatic Pipeline AG, with headquarters, precisely, in the Swiss Confederation. This is the synthesis. Unfortunately we have not been clarified the doubt, which persists with regard to Article 9, about this contract that the three countries, signatories of the Agreement go to sign with this company, the Swiss TAP AG, that - I remember - will have sent to build and manage this important infrastructure. Article 9 of the Agreement, which refers to taxes, expressly states that for the determination of the tax base of the investor of the project, i.e. of the TAP, for the revenues and costs of the Investor of the Project, the allocation criteria will be defined in the agreements concluded with the tax authority of the Swiss Confederation (being the jurisdiction of the statutes of the investor of the project). In a nutshell, our country must have fiscal relations in determining profits with the Swiss Confederation. Let's get to the point here. We have emphasized to the Government the criticality of this passage because at this moment our Country still holds the Swiss Confederation in the famous black list, and this determines great problems regarding the satisfaction of article 9. Prime Minister Letta said that shortly he and Brunetta will go to the Swiss Confederation to beat the cash in order to see to heal the fate of the country, because surely we are not doing it with the law of stability. We hope that on that occasion, at last, bilateral agreements can be entered into with the Swiss Confederation in order to be able to follow up this Agreement, otherwise it will be very difficult. That being said, we come to the heart of the matter. It is certainly not our Group that has shone through the years in this House for exalting Italianness within all the measures that are being dealt with, but I would like to remind you, Mr Undersecretary, that this important bill concerns an important and strategic project, in which someone will invest 24 billion US dollars, we will build 800 kilometers of pipeline, will be transported immediately 10 billion cubic meters of gas per year and under regime there will be the possibility of transporting 20 billion per year. We had said this at the previous session that within the company based in Switzerland, in all the mechanisms we went to seek, there is no participation of any Italian company, not even private. Here the Norwegians sing it and laugh at it, which you know very well, better than I do, Mr Undersecretary, at this moment they say a lot about the energy issue. There are the Norwegians, the British, the French, the Belgians, the Germans and even the Swiss, but we are not there: we do not exist. After that, I am sorry to hear from the Undersecretary that we have reserved, through ENEL, for gas quotas. We must not confuse gas quotas with active participation in the project, which is something else. In fact, even on this big game, this government can only do us once again colonize. We had no illusions that you, the Undersecretary, would come to this House today to enlighten us or to bring strong solutions in relation to this request. There are no solutions. We're not deluded. We are dealing with this important operation as this Government always does and I believe that this operation is the mirror of this Government: we are there but we are not there, we try to do something by buying a little 'gas, but in the end we are not masters of even a meter of tube, just to say brutally. There are others, though. This is probably the industrial policy of our country and, even more so, of this Government. I repeat: we have not deluded ourselves and we do not deceive ourselves that this Government can satisfy us. We are in opposition and we can say that we saw it yesterday on the proposal for a stability law. But on this important game, which will determine much of the energy policy and, consequently, industrial of our country, we are not there. We shall vote in favour of it because it has been decided so. Fortunately, despite the pressure of Europe, Nabucco fell, so the tube will not arrive in Vienna but in Puglia, and that's fine. We will vote in favour, but the regret is that our country, because of this government, is still absent. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u141	ROMANO (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I am voting in favour of this measure. I would also ask you to attach the text of my speech to the shorthand report of today's sitting. [[Applause from the SCP, PD and PDL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u142	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u145	DE PIETRO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, today's draft law No 884 provides for the ratification of the agreement between our country, Albania and Greece on the Trans Adriatic Pipeline project. As is widely known, the TAP, the result of an intense negotiation activity among the graduates of the countries concerned, was preceded by the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding, signed in New York in September 2012. Among the main reasons that led the Italian Government to the signing of the agreement is the conviction that the TAP project is a useful tool to diversify energy sources with consequent positive effects on both the so-called cost of the bill and on the employment level. In addition to all the considerations expressed by our Group in the debate, there is an obligation here to remember that the 5 Star Movement is not contrary to the construction of works and infrastructure; however, we want, together with the citizens of whom we are the spokesperson, to evaluate carefully the costs, benefits and, above all, the impact they will have on the environment. We are opposed to the waste of public money even if the funds come from the European Union. We are opposed to useless and harmful works such as the bridge over the Strait, the TAV, the Grunda and the Third Pass. The most significant precedent remains, in this respect, the construction of the Turin-Lion high-speed railway line: well, we do not want the Trans Adriatic Pipeline project to become a new bitter confrontation between the state and the citizens. Unfortunately, the premises are all there. We strongly contend with the modus operandi which, in these and similar circumstances, the Commission (passively followed by Parliament) has adopted: little consideration in the protection of the environmental heritage combined with little or no attention to the demands, needs and fears of the populations involved. Citizens are confronted with the fact that agreements have already been made, decisions that are falling from the top. The same Region Puglia has defined the agreement that we are going to sign a ratification in the dark. The main reason is to be found in the prolonged lack of official documentation approved by the various technical committees (national and regional). Documentation that, as has been announced by the same TAP (in this case the company that will manage the works), has become official only on 10 September, the date on which the TAP has delivered the study of environmental and social impact (ESIA) to the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. Both the Municipality of Melendugno and Vernole in the EIA committee had expressed an opinion against the work. Moreover, the observations of the Confcommercio di Lecce and of the town association Tramontana of Melendugno also leaned for rejection. Perhaps it is for this reason that in the process of approving this draft law the problems relating to the environmental impact resulting from the construction of the pipeline have not been addressed. To deliberately neglect such arguments is not only shortsighted, but absolutely inconceivable, as it means endangering the environment and, therefore, the populations living in the territories concerned. The TAP project has also collected two negative resolutions from the Municipality of Melendugno, the negative resolutions of Vernole, Caprarica di Lecce and Castrì, the negative opinion of the Puglia Region, several Salentine associations and 5,000 citizens who signed a public petition to demonstrate their opposition to the planned pipeline. Not only citizens, but also local institutions are unheard of. The only certainty that we have therefore, faced with indeterminate positive repercussions in terms of employment, more vague than real, is the intervention on the Apulian backdrops that will almost certainly have negative repercussions on what currently constitutes the only real resource in active for that territory: the tourism sector. But let's relax here and clear the field from so many prejudices: we are not against the reduction of energy costs, indeed; we are not suffering from NIMBY syndrome (not in my backyard). Instead, we are against the systematic violation of procedures aimed at protecting the environment; we are against everything that tramples on citizens' rights; we are in favour of participatory training and decision-making processes that comply with the Aarhus Convention, signed in 1998, which in its Article 1 provides for the rights of access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters. When a new infrastructure such as TAP is put in place, the population must be properly informed and listened to; citizens must be protected; the environment must be protected. In this case, or rather in this case too, all this has not been taken into account. That is why, in the face of serious reasons for dissent and perplexity, Madam President, our vote on the draft law before us can only be against it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u148	AMORUSO (PdL). Madam President, I too, like my colleague, Mr Romano di Chosta Civica for Italy, expressing a strong vote in favour of the draft law under consideration by the People of Freedom Group for all the reasons that have emerged in today's debate and in all the in-depth discussions that we have conducted in the Foreign Commission, would like to hand over the text of my explanation of vote so that it is annexed to the shorthand report of today's sitting. [[Applause from the PdL and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u149	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u150	Madam President, by announcing the vote in favour of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I also ask the Presidency to be able to attach the text of my explanation of vote to the shorthand report. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u151	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk. BATTIST (M5S). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Martelli had asked to intervene before you. MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, it was to ask for an electronic vote, but if there is an explanation of vote in dissent, clearly my request is later. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Baptist. I take note of your request and give you the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u153	Madam President, first of all I would like to reply briefly to Senator Giovanardi. Senator Giovanardi, when he talks about the United States, I don't know if you've ever been there and I don't know if you've ever seen air conditioning shooting in offices and in all commercial stores, I don't know if you've ever seen the size of cars, the number of cars on their motorways. Then, when it comes to nuclear... [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] I didn't interrupt her. When you talk about nuclear power, you also count the cost of waste disposal, because this aspect is never mentioned. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are now talking about building a pipeline: do you not realize that this is yet another decades-long failure of your non-political choices in the field of energy? [[Warm protests from PD and PdL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u154	Excuse me, Senator Battista, but you must justify your dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u155	BATTIST (M5S). Can I say something? Then I will make the dissenting explanation of vote. When you talk about energy supply, do you realize that this is yet another decades' failure of your non-political choices in the field of energy? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from PD and PdL groups.]] When you talk about the TAP, say you want the TAP, the South Stream, the North Stream, the Nabucco: everything and more. And say you want regasifiers. [[Protests from PD and PdL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u156	Senator Baptist, you have to justify the group's dissent vote, otherwise you have no right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u157	BATTIST (M5S). That is why, Madam President. In my city, then, you wanted to put a regasifier near an oil terminal that supplies all of Bavaria, and forget that on August 4, 1972 there was an attack in Black September at the terminal of the SIOT. [[Protests from PD and PdL Groups]] Borioli (PD). Stop! It's a shame! BATTIST (M5S). But you don't give a damn about the environment, like you don't give a damn about the damage of the open circuit regasifier. When you fly on the coast of the province of Rovigo, look at the foams that are poured into the sea. [[Protests from PD and PdL Groups]] VACCARI (PD). Madam President, the two minutes have passed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Baptist, I repeat that you must justify your dissenting vote, otherwise I will take your word for it. BATTIST (M5S). But you don't care about the environment! And then finish with the occupational blackmail of having to give work! How many people are you gonna give jobs to? Ten Albanians? How many? And then there's gonna be a turbogas plant. Because we haven't said anything yet about CIP 6. And we pay for this... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] CASINI (SCPI). Bravo, Madam President!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u158	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, previously made by Senator Martelli, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the draft law as a whole. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u161	DE VINCENTI, State Secretary for Economic Development. Madam President, in agreement with the presenters, I would like to ask for a postponement of the debate on the motions relating to the democratisation process in Myanmar, so that we have time to discuss them properly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u162	Since there are no comments, the request for referral is deemed to have been accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u163	I inform you that the required number of senators has received a request to insert an argument in the calendar of the Assembly's proceedings, pursuant to Rule 55, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure. He asked Senator Capacchione to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask that draft law No 54, amending Article 3 of Law No 654, relating to the fight and repression of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, as defined in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, be included in the current timetable. I would ask that, in line with what has already been established by the Conference of Group Presidents, next week there be the possibility of adding this bill, which aims to counter the recent and worrying spread of racism and anti-Semitism and, in particular, the denial of widely documented historical facts such as the extermination of Jews and other minorities. I therefore call on the House to support this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u165	Pursuant to Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, the resolution shall be adopted by vote by show of hands after the intervention of no more than one speaker per group for 10 minutes each. As there is no request for intervention, I put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda of the Assembly the discussion of draft law No. 54. It's approved. It is therefore established that bill No. 54 adds to the other arguments provided for in the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u168	ROMANI Maurizio (M5S). Madam President, I would like to talk about the announced death of the largest historical library in Pisa. In a few days will be announced the transfer of the university library of Pisa, which today belongs to the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, to the University of Pisa. Is the library okay? No. It has been closed for a year and four months and maintenance is not done. Are the books catalogued? No. Whole funds are in the old tab catalog; to take a book just destroy its tab. But, at least, have work been done to secure it? Not even these. Neither before nor after the earthquake has the competent body carried out safety work. I remember that the earthquake dates back to 2001. Will the library work better? That, too, is not given to know. Have the local authorities put in place any surveillance? No. Mayor and majority in the Commune have said several times that it is not their business. Will the workers be protected? You don't know. The university has already stated that it does not have the money to hire them. They remain in the Ministry for cultural goods and activities and, therefore, the operation will be in pure loss for the Ministry, that is for those who pay taxes. Will the city have more space and reading possibilities? No. Access to the university library, loan, computer tools are reserved for students and staff and will not be open to the public. Will the students have more services? No. Will scholars have more services? No. No university library has specific structures for the preservation, enhancement and restoration of ancient books. It's just not their job. Will the books be moved? You don't know. If they are treated as law books, they should be placed in the Montacchiello warehouse without any cataloguing or restoration. How much is this solution? You don't know that, either. The workers of the library cost MIBAC about one million euros a year, the university and library heritage will presumably be sold for free. However, no one has proposed, nor - to be honest - requested any documents in this regard. Who publicly proposed this solution? Only the rector of the university. Who has publicly discussed this solution? No one. Who pays for the transaction without any prospect or improvement project? All those who research: the students and the workers of the library itself, first of all, but also all the citizens of Pisa deprived of a common good for which they pay taxes and tributes. In fact, the dismemberment of the library began without any expertise justifying it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u171	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, yesterday the first female entrepreneur killed herself. We have reached such a level that even women, who usually show that they have more resistance, get to give in. So the problem becomes more and more serious. I take the floor briefly to read to this House one of the many e-mails that flood our e-mail addresses daily, and I also imagine your requests for help and stories of daily discomfort that we have a duty not only to bring to the House, as a spokesman for the citizens, but also to resolve, especially to resolve, so that no one can remain behind. I have been an entrepreneur since 1996, I am 47 years old and I have always paid full social security contributions and taxes. I work for a lifetime and currently around 550 euros per month in Equitalia. I will have to do it 72 times because my debt from the initials 21,000 euros has risen to 39,000 thousand euros: 18,000 euros of interest that to you seem few but for me, small entrepreneur, that every month has to decide whether to pay the employees, the fictitious, the home mortgage, the current taxes, or the interests to the banks, are a ballast. Many honest entrepreneurs are in the same situation as me, people 50-60 years old, who have always given work and are faced with an enemy state. We need to be careful because these people are experiencing excessive pressure. For not having paid in March 2009 the social security and social security claims of employees, amounting to 49 euros, I received from the court a criminal decree of conviction with the request of 20 days of imprisonment and 50 euros of fine or, alternatively, the payment of a fine of 5,050 euros. Having chosen the abbreviated rite, on October 18th - tomorrow - he knew if after 25 years of sacrifice my criminal record will still be clean or for the Italian State I am a criminal. (...) But does this seem normal to you? In Italy a small entrepreneur is forced to do business defending himself from the State. And then they say entrepreneurs commit suicide. What should we do in the face of this continuous stylicide? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude your speech. BLUNDO (M5S). It is this dear colleagues, as I said at the beginning of my brief speech, one of the innumerable messages we receive and which, once again, confirms one thing: we are in a country where the tax system is strong with the weak and weak with the strong. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , in which they continue not to hit the big evaders, instead preferring to persecute the small and very small entrepreneurs who, despite the serious economic recession, courageously continue to do business in a thousand difficulties. If we do not give them answers in a very short time, recreating a feeling of trust in the institutions and in justice, we will not be able to safeguard or perhaps even recover, given the situation, that pact between state and citizens that is the basis of every democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u173	You have the right to do so. I recommend, however, that you stay on schedule.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u174	BENCINI (M5S). Maybe I'll do it sooner. However, Madam President, thank you. The results of the OECD survey on the fundamental competence of the population are pitiful to us: in short, we study and work badly. Complex procedures, variable norms and opaque behaviors force us to waste resources and energies. We don't spend enough in school, but we spend badly. We are in line with other OECD countries as expenditure per student, number of teachers and hours of teaching; in fact, however, the results are somewhat lower. We have a high school dropout rate of about 1.2 percent: 31,397 students leave school. The school year has begun and hundreds of institutions are without managers: of the 2,386 places in competition from the Ministry to date have been employed only 1,402 principals; almost 100 schools have begun the school year without the head of institute. Let's talk about the university, too. Do we think that events like those investigated by Bari's attorney are isolated? Probably not. If an assistant convinces himself that to get into the chair counts more the servility of teaching, when and how much will it be available for his students? How many hours will he spend with his students to train them? Another problem arose last week when, on Friday, it was published in the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) news that 600 Italian students were preparing to go to Tirana to do a competition and enter the school of dentistry. This university, which is in Tirana, has entered into agreements with the University of Tirana (Tor Vergata) in Rome. This is the Catholic University of Our Lady of Good Counsel and is - I repeat - in Tirana. The students go to Tirana paying about 7,000 euros to attend it. This is already discrimination, because those who have money can afford to go there and buy, probably, a university title that they have not been able to access here, perhaps also because they did not deserve access, I don't know. In fact, in Italy there is a closed number to enter the university; probably these boys were excluded from the competition and then went to Tirana. I fear, however, that these degrees and these types of professionalism that are acquired outside the country have a lower professional value than ours. These students then return to Italy and compete unfairly. This does not help to grow in our country. Therefore, governments must work to ensure that people are rewarded for their merit and have the opportunity to study, perhaps with goals. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bencini, you must finish your speech. BENCINI (M5S). Instead of predicting the number closed, you could leave the number open; then, through the objectives required of the students, the deserving will remain to study, while the others will leave. The speech is long and we will also have the opportunity to deal with it in a measure that will soon be before us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u177	GIOVANARDI (PdL). Madam President, philately, postal history, historical documentation on manuscripts are about millions of enthusiasts, auction houses, an important philatelic market, magazines. The whole sector, however, is paralyzed by the fact that a restrictive interpretation of the historically established possession for centuries by collectors of these goods has not found a complete definition. More than a year and a half ago the Ministry was interested in this problem through the Minister and the Legislative Office worked on it, drawing up a document clarifying how the market should be protected and how historically important it is, such as archive objects. However, despite the announcement of the imminent release of a circular to be sent to all the peripheral offices of the Ministry, this has not yet been issued. I would therefore urge the Government to issue this circular. There are no economic difficulties; there are entire sectors that do not need resources but that clarify some regulatory aspects that would allow this very important economic reality to develop without risk of interference due to unclear legislation. I therefore urge the Government to issue this circular through the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u180	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, I would like to bring to the House the voice of protest of the families of people with very serious disabilities who cannot personally protect themselves against a strong Commune with the weak and weak with the strong: the Commune of Parma. The Municipality of Parma is carrying out a reorganization of these services, essentially creating a ghetto, i.e. concentrating in a single structure all patients with very serious disabilities living in residential structures. In this way a chronicory is carried out, uprooting from structures with more than thirty years patients who have begun their residential experience in them. This could lead to serious inconvenience for those people, as the specialists who work in this area are well aware. Among other things, a structure is created that is not man-made, necessary for realities that, as far as possible, must be concerned with improving the quality of perception and life of people with very serious disabilities. The opposite is happening in Parma. The municipality is not listening to the voices of these people, but it is realizing a concentration responding to not better defined budgetary needs, not knowing how to contrast in an appropriate way to the instances of opposite sign that have instead interest in the concentration. I want to bring this protest to this House, because it is a violation of Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution and a regression in relation to the traditions and socio-assistance models that Parma has always realized and that have often been at the forefront. Realizing this concentration means moving from assistance in the true sense of the term, with the promotion of the person and the elimination of his disability as far as possible, to an old-fashioned welfare. In this way it will be a matter of giving to those people only a shelter, but not a dignified hospitality and a true care, respecting their dignity that should never be harmed, especially because they are unable to defend it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u183	CIRINNA' (PD). Madam President, I assure you that I will remain in time. As we all know, we have for a few days converted into law the decree-law presented by the Government on the criminal rules that intervene on the feminicide. As is well known, there has been a long-standing public utility number "1522" to which victims of gender-based violence and stalking can be addressed for information on existing legislation and services on the territory. In the light of the recent conversion into law of the decree, it would be appropriate for the Department of Equal Opportunities to give directives to the contracting entity that manages the number "1522." I wonder why, moreover, the statistical data offered by the contracting entity has not been published since May 2013 on the website of the Department of Equal Opportunities. It would also be appropriate that the statistical data that the service offers monthly to the Department and that represent a concrete vision of the phenomenon violence in Italy can, in some way, be used. I also wonder why the web portal of "1522" has been deleted, which has not been active since December 2012. Finally, I would like to ask why there is no longer a working group made up of executives and officials of the Department who are experts in the fight against violence and in the issues covered by the "1522." Given that the "1522" we pay citizens with our taxes and from this number we have a huge return, a precise photograph, city by city, of what happens about the phenomenon of violence against women, I ask the attention of the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy with delegation to equal opportunities, Cecilia Guerra, so that he can somehow relaunch this service. The same will be done shortly in the Commissions meeting 1a and 2a, where it will resume the process of the broader bill dealing with feminicide, not only in the area of criminal law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u184	The reports contained in the various interventions will be sent to the attention of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-127.ana.u185	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 14.16 a.m.
