ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 11 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00008, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 1-0057, tabled by Senator Casson and other Senators, 1-00082 (text 2), tabled by Senator Battista and other Senators, and 1-00107, presented by Senator Zanda and other Senators, on the participation of Italy in the F-35 project. I would remind you that yesterday's sitting saw an illustration of the motions and the general debate. Following the conclusion of the general discussion, the continuation of the examination of motions was postponed. I therefore call upon the Minister for Defence, Senator Mauro, to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motions before us, which reflect the thread of the debate recently concluded in the other branch of Parliament, basically address two issues of considerable sensitivity, such as the national defence model and the Italian participation in the aircraft acquisition programme F-35. The foundations of our model of defence are - as is well known - contained in the articles of the Constitution and are the repudiation of the war of aggression and active participation in international organizations that ensure peace and justice among nations; the sacred duty to defend the Homeland; the obligation for all citizens to provide military service in the manner provided for by law, and therefore including the dimension of civil service; the armed forces informed to the democratic spirit of the Republic. It is Parliament that has defined, over the years, the other pillars of our defence model. It is Parliament that has ratified the international treaties. Let us think, for example, of the North Atlantic Treaty, establishing NATO, and above all of the Treaties which, over time, have created and progressively transformed Europe into the reality we know. With the Lisbon Treaty - and I quote Article 42 in particular - the Member States have solemnly committed themselves to gradually improving their military capabilities and making them available to the Union, to ensure peacekeeping, conflict prevention and the strengthening of international security. But Parliament continually adapts its national defence policy also by releasing the participation of our armed forces in international operations carried out under the mandate of the UN Security Council, by resolutions adopted under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. These are deliberations which enable Parliament to honour Italy's commitment to a peaceful and just international order. It would really be alien... (Senator Morra converses with some of his group's senators.) I would like to thank Senator Morra if you would pay attention to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I ask you to avoid confusion in this House as the government intervenes and to stand in its place. Mr MAURO, Minister for Defence. It would really be alien to our history and our political culture any hypothesis of self-defense or any attitude of self-isolation with respect to the surrounding dynamics. It is our duty to contribute to the security of the international system. While during the Cold War period the priority was the defence of national territory, in the current globalised security scenario all responsible countries are called to make their contribution by participating both in the decision-making mechanisms in multinational fora, in the United Nations, rather than in the European-Atlantic context, and in the burdens associated with the operations of maintaining or restoring peace and international security. It is clear that it would be desirable to demand participation or even more determination of such decision-making processes by subtracting us from the commitments resulting from such decisions, including the adoption of military measures aimed at restoring or maintaining peace. For this reason, I do not believe that we can evade our precise responsibility to maintain at an appropriate level the capacity of the armed forces to carry out their institutional missions in the homeland and abroad. For over two decades, the priority task of the Armed Forces, in the spirit of Article 11 of the Constitution, has expanded widely, including participation in the numerous international missions under the aegis of the various international organisations (NATO, European Union and UN), in order to contribute to the collective efforts of the international community to maintain the world order. In each of these missions, from 1991 to today - I would like to stress this - it has been necessary, both to protect the local populations as well as to give cover to the forces on land and at sea, to employ our aero-tactic component: that aero-tactic component that we are renewing in order to continue in the future to interact with the same effectiveness in multinational contexts. It is recent memory - and I remind everyone - the intervention in Libya, where the employment to the air tactical forces has been intense and decisive, with almost 1,700 rise, for more than 6,200 hours of flight; I also want to clarify that in Libya, as in many, indeed on all the previous occasions, the entire operating line of our aerial force has been engaged, therefore both the Tornado, AMX and AV-8B aircraft, that we are replacing with the F-35, and the Tornado ADV and F-16 aircraft today replaced by the Eurofighters. This shows that these last aircraft, which have as their priority the defence of the national territory, are also used in the new scenarios to operate also in international missions. To be clear, there are no offensive or defensive weapon systems, bad or good aircraft: instead, there are adequate or inadequate military instruments, but always functional to implement the political will - I repeat - expressed by the democratic institutions, which of the country are the guide and the reference. It is clear that if Italy has been able to play a significant role in this new geostrategic reality and if it has shown that it is able to honour its international commitments, it is due to Parliament's willingness to respond to the needs of periodic modernisation of the Armed Forces. It is clear that if this progressive modernisation of the military instrument had failed, Italy would not have been able to honour the commitments related to the decisions taken and shared in international fora. It is Parliament that has also expressed this need when the law on the overall revision of the military instrument, promoted by Minister Di Paola, my predecessor, is adopted, with a broad convergence of political forces, in the light of the inevitable need to secure the accounts of the armed forces as well. With regard to the reductions in the defence budget, I would like to mention, as many colleagues have done, the independent and accredited study of the international research institute in the field of military spending, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), which recently noted that military spending in Italy has been reduced by 19% between 2003 and 2012, implementing what is by far the largest reduction among all the countries under consideration. The latest data show an even more marked negative trend for 2013, with expenditure 7.7% lower than in 2012. Faced with this minus 19 per cent Italian, over the same period SIPRI recorded a 32 per cent increase in US spending, and in Western Europe the trend is that of a modest swing of budgets: in fact, in the period mentioned, France marked a 3.3% decrease, Germany a 1.5% decrease, while the United Kingdom an increase of 4.9%. These are analyses based on specific data and aggregations, because the SIPRI is known to adopt a broader definition of military spending than that generally used in the accounts of individual countries. Nevertheless, the absolute uniqueness of the minus 19 percent of Italian military spending, also detectable by the examination of our official data, stands out in a very clear way from this international comparison. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the military instrument is today a reliable resource available to the institutions and to the country, but in order to remain so it must continue to be consistent with the overall and balanced policy in its components and qualities in order to offer the right degree of flexibility and therefore of options that can be exercised to those who decide on its use. The choices made today, in short, are destined to reflect on the coming decades and therefore must be meditated always and carefully, and the system F-35, the subject of the motions under consideration, is an important part of the overall air capacity of the military instrument as a whole. The exercise of balancing the military instrument in all its components, and above all balancing it with respect to financial resources, is a complex and delicate exercise that involves, as is logical, that it is, first of all Parliament, which exercises its constitutional prerogatives through the activities of direction and then control over the Government; then it involves the Executive, holder of the power of political-administrative direction, which elaborates the choices in the matter of military policy and arms, in harmony with the choices of industrial policy, in compliance with the constraints of public finance; finally, it involves the Armed Forces themselves, which obviously have the best technical and professional competence to define some purely technical choices. This is exactly what happened in the case of the modernisation programme for our aviation component. As everyone knows, because repeated many times in recent weeks both in Parliament and in the media, the JSF F-35 has a history that has its roots in the 1990s. Since then, on several occasions, in different legislatures and under different governments, supported by different parliamentary majorities, the programme has been submitted to Parliament every time a new, further step was taken and new and additional burdens for public finances were emerging. This was the case, for example, when Italy joined the programme as an informed partner, expressing the favourable opinion of the Defence Committees on 9 and 15 December 1998. The Government again submitted its decision to proceed with the second phase of development of the aircraft and its multiannual funding: the decision received the favourable opinion of the Commissions on 14 May and 4 June 2002. Finally, the Government has submitted to the Defence Commissions the decision to proceed to acquire, reducing the program, up to 131 F-35 aircraft over a period of time extending beyond 2027, indicating obviously also the financial burden of such program. The Commissions gave a favourable opinion with comments to this acquisition programme on 8 April 2009. The procedure followed was in those cases the strict application of the so-called Act Since. The amendment of Article 536 of the Military Order Code, implemented by Law No 244 of 2012, intervened at 31 December of the same year. It is, therefore, clear that it does not affect the acts carried out and perfected many years earlier. On the other hand, the new rule is obviously binding on all the acquisition programs that, from the moment of its approval, the Government intends to pursue, thus regulating new procedures of information to the competent Commissions, as well as the modalities of their operation. As far as I said, the Government has expressed its conviction - I repeat: convincedly - that its opinion in favour of the motion already presented to the Chamber of Deputies whose first signatories are Mr Hope, Mr Brunetta, Mr Dellai, Mr Pisicchio and Mr Formisano, since it commits the Government to full respect of the provisions of the new legislation introduced by the Law of 31 December 2012, n. 244, in order to guarantee Parliament to exercise its prerogatives, and in particular, with regard to the F-35 programme, to proceed to no further acquisition, except after having conducted all the prescribed passages, just as happened in 1998, then in 2002 and again in 2009. If the Government were to proceed with further stages of the programme, different and further than those submitted to Parliament from time to time, it would follow the procedures laid down by law. In order to fully understand the Government's argument on this point, I think it would be useful to spend a few more words. The Commission's choice of military spending in the current form of parliamentary government is put back to the political direction of the Houses. This means that, as my colleague Mr Tonini also mentioned, the logical and legal parliamentary orientation phase precedes the implementation of the government's choice. Subsequently, following this choice, Parliament is expected to exercise powers of inspection and control. In the formation of the political direction in the field of defence, there is no doubt that the act of government initiative, among other things often due and not discretionary, also because of the constraints of international relations. Therefore, the parliamentary direction in the matter of arms, technical-military matter, must be decided also taking into account the position of the Government, which, in turn, evaluates international constraints and technical profiles concerning the adequacy of security and defence systems. As regards the general planning of the investment covered by the F-35 programme, the political direction has been reflected so far in the budget laws, as Senator Nencini recalled, with which the financial resources for the implementation of the planned programmes, including the F-35, have been allocated. The provision of the Di Paola reform, in fact, outlines precise timings, both in the presentation of the modernization programmes to be submitted to the evaluation of the Commissions, and in the modalities of expression of the opinion, even if this is obstructive. The position of the Government is clear: against the announced downsizing of the purchase program of the F-35 carried out by the Government and Minister Di Paola on 15 February 2012, the Hope motion and others represents an inhibiting act every further acquisition, and does not seem, as Senator Tonini recalled, to have to be understood as a general and retroactive ban accident on policies of purchase already determined. In the absence of different regulatory choices, the Government has a duty to fully exercise its competence in the field of arms policy, in line with a legal framework that remains unchanged. In our constitutional regime, the Government is subjected to the precise constraint represented by the constancy of Parliament's confidence and by having the distinct responsibility for the choices regarding the planning of the military instrument and arms policy. The Government, precisely in order to allow Parliament to exercise its prerogatives fully, has precise information obligations regarding the choices it intends to take in the field of defence. These obligations existed, in some form, even in the past; even more so today they exist with the new laws. Each year, at the time of the presentation of the bill of the budget, the Minister of Defence, the only member of the Government, held by a specific legislative provision, ex Article 12 of the Code of Military Law, presents to Parliament, in addition to the reports annexed to the budget table, a detailed document (the so-called Additional Note to the State of forecast of the expenditure of the Defense), in which all the activities of the Dicastery are highlighted, with the relative allocations previewed. The obligation to provide detailed information to Parliament has been further defined and strengthened by the intervention of Law No 244 of 2012, which, in Article 4, provides, firstly, that the Minister of Defence shall transmit to Parliament a multiannual deployment plan detailing both the general framework of the operational needs of the Armed Forces (including strategic guidelines and capacitive development lines), and the list of ongoing weapons and research programmes and the related financial programming plan, indicating the resources allocated to each of the programmes for a period of not less than three years. The Act also provides that the modernisation programmes financed through ordinary budget appropriations are to be approved by decree of the Minister of Defence, in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance if they are of a multiannual duration. These decrees are submitted in advance to the Board of Defense of the Chamber and Senate. The latter, if they wish to express an opinion at the end of a consultation process with the representatives of the Government (detailed process in its stages by law), can also, by a majority of its members, express a negative opinion with respect to the decree of the Minister: opinion - I quote the law - motivated with reference to the lack of consistency with the multi-annual plan of employment. It is therefore, in all evidence, the exercise of control by the Commissions on the coherence between what the Government has declared to Parliament in terms of the operational needs of the Armed Forces and weapons programs, including financial programming, and what is contained in the decrees of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Economy. This law, therefore, enhances the constitutional prerogatives of the Government and Parliament, called upon to interact, according to the principle of loyal collaboration, respecting the different roles, on an issue of obvious interest to the community. Indeed - and I say this with the comfort of the very authoritative opinions of constitutional experts who in the last few hours have felt they had to express themselves in this regard - all this matter has in no way the possibility to alter the balance between Parliament and Government as defined by the Constitution. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to return to the most strategic and military aspects. It is known that the aircraft F-35 is subject to criticism of various kinds. Starting from the alleged technical problems, it is essential to consider how the disadvantages that have emerged are typical of all the aeronautical programmes of recent decades, both military and commercial, since the introduction of a new generation of systems, with the associated highly innovative technologies, implies by definition a phase of testing and correction of defects. It would be impossible to detail the progress achieved by the development of the aircraft, also because the tests continue at a tight pace and now involve dozens of specimens on different bases. Almost every day there is a new step forward in one of the required capacities or performances. It is correct to believe, therefore, that all the drawbacks that emerged during the development phase, besides being able to consider themselves physiological of every advanced aeronautical program, are not such as to affect the operation of the system according to a timetable that is widely compatible with the needs of our Armed Forces. Another highly debated aspect is that of costs. In this respect, I must point out that the costs are associated, as is the case in every field, with the intrinsic complexity of the programme, which is also characterized by a very high content in terms of research and development. However - and this is the key point to note - the most recent estimates among those drawn up indicate costs in the future falling and not already growing. With regard to the attitude of some partners, which are also the subject of special media attention, I would like to point out that even recently the partner countries have confirmed, in the appropriate multinational board that governs the program, the total number of aircraft to be acquired, in some cases varying their acquisition time profiles. I would like to point out in particular that Japan's first order was registered, a country that had not originally participated in the project, but that chose the aircraft as the best solution for its defence after a long selection. Other additional countries compared to the nine that participated in the development are considering the plane for a possible acquisition: this is the case, for example, of South Korea. All this - it is worth remembering - even before you reach the operational capacity of the first flight department. The reason for this interest in the F-35 system must be researched in the technological content and, therefore, in the capabilities that can be expressed by the aircraft that have no comparison in the other existing or planned systems. There are no credible alternatives to the F-35. It is not technically possible to transform into a new generation aircraft a system designed on the basis of the technologies of the previous generation. If a European programme for a fifth generation aircraft were to be launched now, a very high price would have to be paid, similar to that borne by the United States over the last 20 years. It is not possible, then, simply to adapt an aircraft born as an aerial defense fighter, such as the Eurofighter, to assign in the future the tasks assigned to the Tornados and other aircraft that we are replacing with the F-35. Finally, there are no alternatives to the F-35 aircraft to meet, for example, the needs of the Navy, which cannot operate with other aircraft from the bridge of its only and only aircraft carrier. The choice to acquire a fifth generation aircraft therefore meets the needs of the Navy and the Air Force, both finally, but not for minor importance, the requirements of growth and competitiveness of our industry. Many of these aspects, although they have already been dealt with on previous occasions of confrontation between the Government and Parliament, deserve further consideration in order to make things clearer. First of all, I think it is useful to be more aware of one of the characteristic features of each multinational programme for the production of complex systems. When Italy, with its industry, is part of a multinational programme, it does so in the first place by virtue of specific political commitments to all other partners in that programme. As a result of this political commitment, we adhere to a productive mechanism that involves both a reduction of the total costs, thanks to economies of scale, and an explicit and conscious interdependence between all the partners of the programme. That is why everyone is required to communicate adequately in advance to all other partners both the number of aircraft they intend to acquire and the timing of this acquisition. Only in this way, in fact, is it possible to organize a production chain based on production plants located in different continents, in turn fed by a plurality of suppliers of the small and medium-sized industry. Under these mechanisms, which have a technical and industrial need, each country must then operate multiple contracts with suppliers and industries, according to a complex roadmap embodied in the production mechanisms that I have described. In the case of Italy, after the aforementioned opinion of the Parliament in 2009, the contractual procedures necessary to fit, according to the common rules, into this multinational production mechanism were initiated. I think it is clear from what I say that the operation of this multinational production mechanism involves the fulfilment by each partner of the political commitments entered into. We must also bear in mind how our country has seized an important opportunity by investing in the so-called FACO (Final assembly and check out), however always in the presence of a favourable opinion expressed by Parliament, obtaining an undeniable technological advantage over all other international partners or customers in an industrial program that is projected over the next forty years. The FACO is the only industrial company able to compete in the production of the F-35 now operating outside the United States, with all the positive consequences that result. But Italian involvement is not only represented by FACO. In the last few months important contracts have come for the industrialization and the start of the realization of the wings and other components of the fuselage at the plants of Alenia Aermacchi of Foggia and Nola and near the national production chain, constituted essentially from the small and medium industry of field. In a few days will begin the assembly of the first Italian specimen, whose components have already been produced. In short, after the production activity of the other industries, will begin also the operational activity of the FACO. The activities started in recent months are therefore of crucial importance in industrial terms, because they represent the starting point of what is called the learning curve in jargon, that is, the process of development and improvement of the productive capacities obtained while the production is carried out materially. The sooner this learning process is started and the faster it is (i.e. the speed with which this learning curve rises), the better the prospects for the national industry to win contracts for the production of the various components of the aircraft. In this regard, it is appropriate to reiterate the truly historical dimension of the programme which, as already mentioned, is already involving many countries and for US needs alone implies the production of thousands of aircraft. The national industry will not be involved only in the construction of components for Italian aircraft or in their assembly at the FACO. On the contrary, it will contribute to world production, precisely thanks to the production capacity resident in the different Italian plants, many of which are small and medium-sized industries, and to the know-how that it will have accumulated in the next crucial years. It is absolutely vital, therefore, not to lose the position acquired today because, if we let ourselves be overcome in terms of involvement in the productive activities and therefore of progress along the industrial learning curve, other countries could win those orders on the various productive lots and take away opportunities and loads of work from our industry. Returning to FACO, in addition to the activities related to the production of the aircraft, it will be able to arrive in due time also the center for the maintenance, the overhaul, the repairs and the modifications of the Italian aircrafts and the partners that will use the system in Europe and in the regions of the enlarged Mediterranean. Press to emphasize that the set of the aforementioned maintenance activities will also determine a workload and therefore an extremely high turnover of the duration of several decades, that is throughout the waiting life of the aircraft, estimated at least until 2050. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the choices of Parliament and governments, Italy has played an active and positive role in the context of the alliances of which it is part in the international community as a whole, both by competing in collective decisions and by honouring the commitments that have resulted from them. It was also able to do so because it had at its disposal modern and interoperable equipment (such as those allied), capable of guaranteeing the highest degree of survival for the crews. An essential part of our military instrument is represented by the aero tactical component used by Marina and Aeronautica. This component, today represented by the flight line of Tornado, AMX and AV-8B, dates back, as a design, to the seventies. About fifteen years ago Italy joined the GSF programme, then became the F-35 system. With farsightedness he sought, more than any other international partner, a strong involvement of the national industry, realizing the only assembly line existing outside the United States and competing in the production phase, that is, obtaining orders immediately. We now have a duty to pursue consistently the solutions, which can only come from international cooperation, which will enable us, on the one hand, to respond to operational needs by ensuring interoperability and, on the other hand, to support our industry also in terms of technological growth. All with the right attention to the associated costs. If we do, we will meet both the operational needs of the Armed Forces and the chances of success for our industry. If we decide not to do so, we will in a single blow compromise our ability to compete in operations conducted by the international community to safeguard or restore the peace and survival of one of the few technological and industrial sectors of our country still characterized by high competitiveness. In the course of the intervention, I would like to point out that I did not deliberately address the arguments of an anthropological nature, that is, all that concerns the decision on peace and war. Much irony has been made about some expressions that I used in my speech to the House on the necessity, which involves wanting peace, to go through a period of containment of conflicts. I remind everyone and myself that we have been in Afghanistan for more than ten years, in Bosnia for more than twenty years and in Kosovo for fifteen years. Hence, contributing to peace involves responsibility and sacrifice with very complex and highly structured burdens. Contributing to peace, as more than one colleague has mentioned, also means understanding that sometimes not intervening has a greater cost: it was true in Sarajevo, it was true in Srebrenica, it was true in Rwanda, when the inertia of the international community resulted in 800,000 deaths in 54 days, not caused by bombing planes, but by machete strikes. On that occasion, few soldiers were missing and little deterrent to obtain the protection of the civilian population. Building peace is therefore a clear responsibility. In this sense I will quote a politician - I do not like to quote pontiffs, so I will not do so again - who was also Minister of Defence and whose memory we celebrated yesterday, dedicating to him the plenary room of the training structure of the Armed Forces: Beniamino Andreatta. The phrase goes back not to when he was Minister of Defence, but to when he was Head of the People's Group in this Parliament: In conclusion, there is no prospect of a more civilized world if the powers escape their responsibilities, if the Munich surrender syndrome were to take possession of the peoples and their rulers, if collective security did not find weapons and soldiers to make the reasons for peace live on the ground. Arming the reasons for peace is not a choice to be taken lightly: arming the reasons for peace is a necessity that has changed the scenario from the cold war to a scenario in which the international community intervenes with obligations and tasks (in fact) of international police, which serve to prevent the deflagration of conflicts, not to allow them. We are part of this project. Let me close by addressing Senator Marton. Senator Marton, yesterday you wanted to emphasize my expression to love peace you must arm peace as a flagrant contradiction, and you wanted in this circumstance, rather than opposing the reasons of a father, to involve a child through easy emotions. I tell you, in order to be a person born in a small country in the South, that when there is a fight going on so many times it is actually necessary to intervene. And when you do it in an alley, in an alley in a small town in the South, you don't have to take a punch or a stab. But precisely for this reason, because you love the destiny of the people, you love the destiny of a nation, you love the destiny of those who are close to you and also of those you do not know, you can take, as a nation, the responsibility to intervene also for those who live 10,000 kilometers away and who, as little Malala taught us at the UN, sees in your intervention the only possibility of being free, the only possibility of having peace. [[Applause from the PD, SCP, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, LAG and PDL Groups.]] With regard to opinions, Mr President, in view of what has been said and in the spirit of full and loyal cooperation with Parliament, I am opposed to motions nos. 8 (text 2), 57 and 82 (text 2). On the other hand, the opinion is in favour of motion No 107, as put forward by the authors.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u8	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make a point. In the course of yesterday's speech, evaluating the solutions and determinations contained in the various motions, I felt closer to our position those indicated in motion 107, to which I had asked for the signatures of myself and the Parent Company. The Group to which I belong, however, has taken a different decision: although it supports the motion in almost all, it considers that it maintains a more neutral position, of abstention. Therefore, I would like to ask you to return the motion to the status quo ante by withdrawing our signatures.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u9	I take note of that, Senator Divine.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u12	Comrade (GAL). Mr President, I rise to declare the vote in favour of motion No 107, already announced in the speech yesterday afternoon. This morning we listened with gratitude and appreciation to Mr Mauro's reply. It seemed very correct to us the reconstruction of the legislation and spirit of Law No 244 which the Minister made. Law 244 gives Parliament the right to adapt national security policy, but Parliament can respond to this task set out to it by the legislator at least lags behind in the prejudices or in the wrinkled philosophy of guns (in this regard, I thank the Minister for the elegance with which he has pinned down some vulgarity of yesterday's debate). It is primarily a task of continuous verification, and in order to do so it needs that great parliamentary institution which is, in democracies, the Government in Parliament. There is a consideration of Minister Mauro who seemed very persuasive to me: at some point in his reconnaissance, in the spirit of continuity with all the governments (from De Gasperi onwards) that preceded him, Minister Mauro was able to say this morning that the military instrument is a reliable resource available to democratic institutions. He was able to say this with the utmost serenity because in the more than half a century that separates us from the Europeanist and Atlantic choice, the degasperian choices of the immediate post-war period, any hypothesis of national defense founded on autarchy has been discarded. In the intelligent citation of the articles of our Constitution, the Minister also suggested that an autarchist defence hypothesis would be unrelated to the dictation of our Constitution. With this sentiment and with all the arguments that lead us back to Senator Nino Andreatta, that great democrat who militated on political positions other than ours (but this is irrelevant), our Group confirms its favourable vote to move forward in Italy's participation in the F-35 project. As the Minister pointed out at the end of his speech, it certainly represents an opportunity, technological and not only, which is projected over the next forty years. What we have appreciated most was the ability of the Minister of Defence to project backwards, over the previous 40 years, and in this way to carry out clearly the task of that parliamentary institution which is the Government in Parliament, which Law No 244 has set out very clearly. [[Applause from the LAG Group and Senator Chiavaroli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u13	I warn the Assembly that the Leader of the 5 Star Movement has called for the urgent convocation of the Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, in order to be able to schedule the examination and discussion of the motion of individual distrust against the Minister of Interior Alfano. The Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups will then meet at 3.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u16	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we announce the vote in favour of motion No 8 (text 2), tabled by the Mixed Group and the SEL component, on motion No 82 (text 2), tabled by the Senators of the 5 Star Movement, and on motion No 57, tabled by Senator Casson and other Senators. These are motions which, after much delay, were finally discussed by the Senate on this day, which was finally able to address a subject very much felt by the public and which also went through the debate of the electoral campaign. We have talked about this on a number of occasions, even in the light of the recent positions taken by the Supreme Defence Council, which, in our view, in a very serious way, Mr President, has urged Parliament to remain silent on a matter, that of weapon systems, which it clearly considers to be its exclusive competence. Well, we have said several times, and we strongly repeat this this morning, that democracy is more important than bombers. A few days ago, as the Minister recalled, the House of Deputies voted two motions on the F-35. The first, voted also by our Group, asked for the final stop and was rejected; the other, promoted instead by the majority of government and approved, postponed the decision and however blocked new acquisitions of bombers, waiting for a new parliamentary decision. This was obviously too much for the military, and it seemed that that very timid motion was also an interference in a field in which Parliament could not even operate through its ordinary functions. It is, in our view, an unacceptable position, especially in a democracy that does not accept protection. We are not, I would like to remind you with force, neither in Egypt nor Turkey, but in what should be a mature Western democracy, in which the military are not above the other powers of the State, are not above the law and are certainly subject to legislative power, executive power and judicial power, like everyone else. In addition, in the last parliamentary term, as we remember, a law on defence was adopted, which is also questionable, but which requires Parliament to express itself on weapon systems and authorizes or blocks investments and annual appropriations. The Supreme Defence Council seems to forget this law, which it must respect and to which it must submit. The same statements of yours, Minister, that you have defined the bombers (you have remembered it also now) instruments of peace, adding precisely that in order to love peace you must arm peace, seem to us not to take into account a general need, now widely hegemony within our country, that is, instead, to radically rethink the system of defence, starting from the constitutional dictation, affirming first of all a central role for European politics - all too often recalled and too little often, instead, practiced - and above all, as we have tried to say also in our motion, to devote the sums saved to an extraordinary program of public investments concerning small works and aimed primarily at the safety, for example, of school buildings and national territory from the hydrogeological risk and to the realization of a multiannual plan for the opening of kindergartens. For this reason we ask the Senate to vote on our motion: in order to stop immediately and without ambiguity the Italian participation in the program of realization of the plane F-35. As we all know, however, the doubts of all our European partners about the project are increasing: the doubts of Great Britain, Holland, Australia, Turkey, Norway, Denmark and Canada (which suspended the competition for the purchase of new fighters). Italy, in participating in this project, from its beginning, had asked, through the Defense Commissions of the Chamber and the Senate, to respect certain conditions and, among them, the conclusion of industrial and governmental agreements that would allow an industrial return for our country proportional to its financial participation, also to protect employment levels: conditions that in the state have not found any feedback in the progress of the project. For all these reasons we think that this program does not correspond to the defensive needs of the country, however with employment repercussions very far from expectations. We think that Italy does not expect this today from this Parliament: a country that is deeply in crisis, Mr President, with the state of school construction that, as we know, is dramatic, with a dramatic seismic risk, with a hydrogeological and volcanic risk close to the emergency; a country in which the social condition would need a total reversal of trend. Well, in a country in crisis like ours, one should have the courage to radically change the order of priorities, reducing military spending and investing on the nerves discovered today, which can however represent the real resource of Italy. As you can see, Minister, the ideological approach that has sometimes been called up, to be honest, has nothing to do with it. There are times, sometimes, when ordinary administration is not enough and continuity with politics is not enough either, but it takes the necessary courage that have had other countries that call into question the choices with respect to the world that changes to take up a role: the role that the Parliament of the Republic should never lose, to seek (let me say so) really to fly high. We are strongly convinced that in order to fly high, in this moment more than ever, we need ideas, we need work, we need planning, we need the courage of choices: much more than the wings of the F-35. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senators Gambaro and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u19	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to say to the Minister that we have appreciated his position and we wholeheartedly share the thoughts and principles he has set out on the road that we will have to take. We are also of the idea that, whether you write it or not on a motion, Parliament will always remain sovereign, because it is by definition so. Having to discuss every six months whether to extend or not our military presence abroad and having to approve a budget every year, Parliament has two moments to discuss whether to continue on a road, whether to approve a plan, or not, a financial appropriation; so writing it in a motion would seem almost pleonastic as it is in things. We perceive two aspects: the need to continue with regard to the modernisation of our flying vehicles, but also to take into account the difficult moment that crosses the country, the families above all. Those who talk about high-level policies only perceive what so many people in this House are exploiting: that is, that we spend so much money to arm our defensive system, while vice versa there would be, many areas, so many sectors that would need intervention, and not being irrelevant the items on the defence budget for the military modernization of Marina and Aeronautica, we wonder whether these are the priorities. Well, we can understand both opposing needs. However, we would like to be as clear as possible in our reasoning. Do we still want to be part of that pool of states that have a certain weight in the field of defence, the economy and the responsibilities to be assumed at international level? If so, we must live up to it in every way, which also means having efficient equipment. All the interventions today are now under the aegis of supranational bodies (EU, NATO, UN), so we must be part of a context, but in aid, help and not in suffering. Our planes, which are thirty or forty years old, are no longer fit to be part of these operations. There are two cases: either we decide that we are no longer interested in having a modern and efficient aviation or, vice versa, if we believe it, we must be able to deal with the subsequent phase, which is the replacement. It is an important replacement: the Harriers of the Navy are to be replaced; the Tornadoes and the AMX of the Aviation we know that they are gradually to replace. And the way to replace them are essentially two: either we go to buy these aircraft from the manufacturers, or - and that's the way this country chose fifteen years ago, as you, Minister, remembered - we decide to build them in joint ventures with the companies and industries of internal defense. If we look at the pool, the joint venture of the United States of America, Canada, Australia, Great Britain, Norway, Turkey, Holland, in addition to our country, we realize that they are the forces that have the most modern, most reliable and most important defense system in the globe. We are also involved - and the economic aspect is not in the background - in the realization of these machines. Someone spoke only of Cameri: it is true, the Alenia Aermacchi of Cameri is the first large plant, but we know that in Naples, precisely in Nola, and in Foggia, in the Alenia plants, important parts of this aircraft will be built. In Cameri, for the most part, the FACO (Final assembly and check out) will be the final assembly of all aircraft that will be sold in Europe and in the Mediterranean basin. In addition, all maintenance of these aircraft will take place in these locations. So let's think about the employment consequences of all those myriads of companies. In fact, while it is true that a total of 1,500 employees will be employed in Cameri, there will be more than 10,000 new jobs with very high added value and high technology. Our companies will produce practically without competition, with high basic research, but above all the Italian product will be known and sold in the world, with positive effects on employment in Italy, which is currently lacking in jobs. We must also remember this aspect. More than 4,000 aircraft will be built: we won't build them all because we don't have the capacity, but a large part of them will also be built in our factories. This aspect must also be taken into account, which is not secondary. To those who wanted to point out that the F-35 will be a bomber it must be said that it is true, but that we need interceptors, bombers and that the figure of the bomber must also be reduced, in the sense that the Italian bombers have acted, for example, in Libya. There we were able to dampen a war that would definitely have more bloody epilogues, because our bombers targeted and annihilated only radar and communication systems. And, by destroying the communication systems of a opposing force, it basically obliges it to surrender as the communication systems no longer manage to dialogue. That is what has been done by our means. To those who wanted to paint war as much more aggressive, I say that it has become a surgical war. Mr Minister, I may have missed a few passages in your speech, but it seems to me that you have not spoken about what will be tomorrow. It is true that we will make great efforts in terms of investment for the present, but for the future we will probably have to make it even more important and important, because, although it is true that this plane will last about fifty years on the scene and you will hardly find an aircraft that can be improved from the point of view of performance, it is also true that we are all moving towards planes that are no longer piloted, remotely piloted. Thinking of a tomorrow, of operating with an airplane made up of pilots who are on the ground and interact with remote communication systems, we must think that the next investments to ensure more and more safety and no longer put at risk even those few military that are on board aircraft today will have to be much more relevant than what we define today. I would suggest to some colleagues who had the opportunity to go to Foggia, Amendola, to visit the remote piloting center from where they fly little Predators flying over Afghanistan without risk for the pilot. These are monitoring flights that allow Italy to know exactly what happens 10,000 kilometers away, even without endangering the life of an aviator. Therefore, our conclusion is an invitation to be serious, to get out of the patina that you want to give demagogues. We must think that the problem exists: the country suffers, the needs are enormous and urgent and the fronts on which we are called to act are endless. The blanket undoubtedly fails to cover everything, but the political question we have to ask ourselves is: does Italy still need an Army? Do you still need an air force? Well, if the answer is yes - also because we act in the Mediterranean regional context which is one of the hottest areas on the globe at present, from Libya to Syria, to Egypt and we should at least protect the internal integrity of our citizens, guaranteeing it by an adequate military means of defence - we must be equipped and efficient. If the answer is no, you can live the same by hoping for God and good, as the Swiss do. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u22	Sunta (SPI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we had two ways of dealing with today's debate and ending it with a vote: the simplest way of looking at ourselves, at our problems, considering us as a monad in a universe that seeks in its everyday life the balance that it lacks, the resources it would need, and which identifies its priorities on the basis of immediate needs. Thus, the discussion on the purchase of the F-35 could not have left room for a single decision: to suspend further purchases. I believe that we have the task of raising our eyes and, even if not all, even here, we are responsible in the same way as the situation of public finance, we collectively have to bear the costs of a defence system that, although it does not appear, and for many is not, a priority over the social dramas that affect a part of the population, no less represents a primary need for the republican institutions. Not even the generation that collected the ruins of fascism and war brought upon itself the faults of the moral, social and economic disaster in which Italy was located after the war. Yet, the great political, social and democratic reforms of the years of reconstruction, carried out even without fully satisfying what La Pira called "the expectations of the poor people," pushed that great defeated country, torn but rich in dignity, towards the destiny that belonged to it: to return to being a protagonist of European and world history. Those ruling classes knew how to take the people by the hand and make them understand that, yes, there was the problem of daily bread, but that only by regaining a role as protagonists in the world and in Europe would the conditions be created to ensure a lasting civil and social progress that even today only democracies can, albeit with difficulty, guarantee. The repudiation of war as an instrument of offense, the true cornerstone of our idea of democracy, has never left room in the fathers of our democracy for the idea that freedom should not have adequate instruments of defence. These were the principles which inspired the creation of NATO, of the European Defence Community (which Spinelli set as one of the priorities of his ideal and political model of European federalism), which failed because the nationalism within us killed her in the cradle, as well as of the Union of Western Europe itself, which somehow collected her legacy, and then with the Treaty of Lisbon a new idea - as the Minister recalled in his speech - which is ripening with common defence. Technology has revolutionized the world. The overwhelming force of human history and intelligence is apparently contradictory, pushing the world to be and feel smaller, more and more global village where the enemy of the values of democracy and freedom, as a garrison of which we have imagined our defence system, is profoundly different from what our recent history has given us. Financially powerful minorities, exploiting also religious and ancient values and more recent ideological fanaticisms, often intertwined with the many more or less occult mafias that have infiltrated the many criminal businesses proper to our time, and that in some cases come to control the system of government of entire and not secondary countries, cannot be fought without new and more adequate systems of defense. In the global village turn your eyes elsewhere in the name of a not well-defined pacifism, when entire peoples, even on the door of the house, are massacred and erased in their dignity, is - this yes - the clear proof of how progressive we too are within the walls and Yankees outside, because also the renunciation of intervention to restore peace where hatred sows terror is a form of cultural imperialism, even if not military and political, unacceptable. Dividing ourselves between pacifists and militarists in this House, whose vote cannot be ignored in the complex and complex constitutional system that presides over the decisions relating to our defence system, means that we have not grasped the meaning of our common history. It is found in Article 11 of the Constitutional Charter, which repudiates war as an instrument of offense, the foundation of a vision that sees Italy committed to an order, not only Italian but also European, that ensures peace, all too often synonymous only with the absence of war, and justice between nations - as the Constitution says - and that recalls values that, not from positive law, but from natural law draw their own direct source. As the motion states, ladies and gentlemen, the Government will not have to proceed to any further phase of the acquisition of the new defence instruments we are talking about without Parliament speaking on the subject. This merit, however, must be assessed in the light of the new order that we want to begin to build for the governance of a Europe that is still paying for the failure of the European Defence Community (EDC) of almost sixty years ago because of the opposite convergence of nationalists and fake pacifists and a world in which the lovers of the multicultural approach in the economic, commercial and, indeed, political are succumbing to those who believe that the immediately aggressive shortcuts or the introspective pacifism that pretends not to see are the only ways to ensure a balance not belligerent in the world. We do not belong to those who, historically, believed that the Armed Forces were or should be a separate body to perpetuate the power of ruling classes (today you would say caste) voted only for the permanence of their power. Our idea, closely linked to that of the United States of Europe, is that of a common European Army as expressed very well, just before death, Alcide De Gasperi, claiming that: The Armed Forces are also one of the highest moral bodies (...). Their flags recall the joys of the past and are a sign of the sacrifices of the future. And to those who posed the problem of the cost of the new system, in 1953 President De Gasperi replied: History teaches us that the form of the contribution of States, as an exclusive system to bear common costs, can cause dangerous divergences and contain germs of dissolution, but this system seems to me to be a minimum necessary until the project obtains Parliament's approval and the consent of the people. We make our own this vision, the deeply democratic and republican civil vision of the Armed Forces, within which every evaluation and consideration must be placed when it comes to the acquisition and use of military instruments; a vision that is carved into our Constitution. For this reason, we shall be voting in favour of the joint motion tabled by the majority. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, PDL and LAG groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u25	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity to continue the programme of implementation of the so-called F-35 is at the heart of a debate that has long engaged all political forces, torn public opinion and at the moment has reached particular importance precisely because of the difficult economic situation we are experiencing, which is characterized by a lack of resources to be allocated to investment and especially growth. For the most part, therefore, it is incomprehensible to us to commit ourselves to the purchase of a military aircraft. It should be said, however, that the F-35 programme that we are talking about, as the Minister said, and as other colleagues who spoke yesterday and today have pointed out, was launched about fifteen years ago by the government then in office, when the economic crisis was still not perceived in its present size. However, that decision was motivated by the need to modernise the military air fleet in the process of being obsolete and more generally by the need to maintain the quality level of our defence, increasingly integrated into a coordinated system of international military alliances. The realization program was then confirmed by the successive Governments and finally also by the Government Monti, which also reduced from 130 to 90 the units of F-35 to buy, confirming the need to continue this project not only to renew the air park of the Air Force military, but also for the consideration that the commitment made allows our country to have a return in terms of direct employment and even more work, for an induced regarding some of the sectors most tormented by the current economic crisis. In fact, while we are debating, in Piedmont in a few days the assembly work will be in order. A thousand workers are already working for the supply of equipment, equipment and what else is necessary for the execution of the program for the part of Italian competence. Significant resources have already been committed which, if the programme were to be blocked by a vote against Parliament, would go up in smoke, just as other resources would go up in smoke, but above all about 1,000 jobs and all the input related to this programme. We fully agree with those who call for more resources for schools, to improve the quality of our teaching and culture, for a better social and health system, for support for employment, but we must not forget that actions are also necessary to support the Armed Forces and our defence, to guarantee quality and maximum security precisely to those women and men who are at the service of the defence of our country and not only. The change of strategic scenarios and international agreements to which Italy participates require a serious reflection on the expenses for investments, the security of our own country, the prevention of conflicts, the defence of peace itself, which can be guaranteed only with targeted support actions in favour of the Armed Forces and, in the specific case, of our military Aeronautica, which must be able to count on sophisticated means and equipment, in step with the most advanced technology. Our country's level of credibility in major international organisations such as the UN, NATO and the European Union itself is also supported by the preparation and efficiency of our defence and military machinery. It is true, however, that Parliament can no longer remain extraneous, as in the past, to the decision-making processes on military spending, which precisely entails burdens on the state budget. This vacuum has now been filled with the approval of delegation law n. 244 of 2012, which regulates the matter allowing, thanks to the new procedures adopted, to rethink any programme, giving Parliament a decisive role. At the point where we are, we think it is appropriate to set up a forum where it is possible to assess the technical and economic aspects of the programme and where it is possible to reconstruct the reasons which have led many countries to abandon the programme or drastically reduce it, as Britain has done with regard to this aircraft. I believe that the majority motion, which follows exactly the one adopted on 26 June in the House, not only highlights this necessity which I have just mentioned, but calls for the central and decisive role of Parliament in the reform of the Armed Forces, recalling what was approved by Law No 244 of 2012. We cannot totally call into question commitments made by the Government 15 years ago, but we could participate actively in the decision-making processes for the future by virtue of this law. Therefore, the Group For the Italian Socialist Autonomous Party will vote in favour of motion 107. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. (You change your jacket and wear one with the colours of the flag of peace.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Cotti (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, I strongly announce the vote in favour... Senator, I'd ask you to take back the previous outfit. Cotti (M5S). President, this is a jacket. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, but he had another jacket before. Cotti (M5S). Unfortunately, I had problems. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please put your old jacket back on. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] President, please let me finish the speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please put your jacket back on. I wouldn't want to call you back. Cotti (M5S). Can I ask on the basis of which Rules of Procedure I am not allowed to keep it, since the jacket is mandatory? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can't change your jacket in this House. Take off your jacket. Cotti (M5S). Exactly. I can't repeat the same mistake I've already made. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, Senator Cotti, I want you to intervene. I invite the Parent Company; we saw that he was wearing another jacket before. (Senator Cotti is wearing the dark jacket again. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It resumes the course of time. Thank you, Senator Cotti, you have the right to speak. Mr President, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, with conviction, the vote in favour of the motion that we have tabled, which clearly calls for the exit of our country and our companies from an irresponsible and ill-advised project, which behind the cover of a modernization of the means provided to our armed forces hides the option for an active policy of military intervention around the world, which is poorly reconciled with the letter and the spirit of Article 11 of our Constitution. The F-35, or rather the F-35, in versions A and B, are not in fact traditional bombers (fighter-bomber). The F-35 is officially defined as a s triker weapon system; the strike term corresponds to the Italian "attack." The F-35, in versions A and B, are not combat vehicles suitable to defend us from attacks of enemy aircraft. The most disturbing element of the project is the fact that the F-35 were designed to contain NATO tactical nuclear warheads B61, tactical nuclear weapon, with explosive potential up to 340 kilotons (more than ten times the Nagasaki bomb): a characteristic that makes its offensive connotation even more evident. The entire Joint Striker programme has been developed to meet the offensive needs of the various US armed forces, not the defensive ones, for which the United States has implemented the F-22A and will continue to use the F-15C and Super Hornets for many years. In order to explain the difference between our position and that contained in the motion approved by the majority in the Chamber of Deputies and also proposed to the Senate, it must be clarified that the Joint strike fighter program consists not in the simple purchase of aircraft, but in the participation in their design, construction, experimentation, refinement, production and sale. Purchasing is a different decision from joining the programme. Italy has already absent the first stages of the implementation of the programme, which is still in progress. Failure to acquire parts or all aircraft currently planned for our Armed Forces does not necessarily imply a stop to production by Italian companies, which is not called into question by the motion approved in the Chamber of Deputies, nor by the one before which Senator Zanda is the first signatory. That is why the so-called postponement of the purchase does not move by a comma the realization of the program itself, since the delivery of the aircraft is not imminent. Decreating the postponement of the purchase without giving instructions to the Government to negotiate with the partners a possible suspension of the development program would also serve little. For these reasons, we can only vote against Senator Zanda's motion: she asks not to proceed to any acquisition for now, but does not stop the Italian participation in the joint strike fighter aircraft production program. The choice of the Five 5 Star Movement is in harmony with the many associations committed to peace and non-violence. Thus recited a step of the petition, with which in line with the campaign "Cut wings to arms", operational since 2009, is asked to cancel the Joint strike fighter program. Spend 14 billion euros to buy (and over 50 billion for the entire life of the program) an airplane with attack functions capable of transporting nuclear devices, while there are no resources for work, school, health and social justice is an incomprehensible choice, which the Government must revise. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This petition sees, among the signatories, Ascanio Celestini, Luigi Ciotti, Riccardo Iacona, Chiara Ingrao, Gad Lerner, Savino Pezzotta, Roberto Saviano, Cecilia Strada, Umberto Veronesi and Alex Zanotelli. We are with these people and we affirm with them that the failure to acquire these aircraft would not create any hole in our defense, because the clear function of this type of aircraft - the attack and bombardment of other territories - does not fall among the vocations of the Italian people. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u29	Alicata (PdL). Mr President, I would like to thank my group for giving me the opportunity to speak in an explanation of vote on such an important subject. Mr Minister, Mr Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, defence choices have always been historically shared by a large majority in the institutions, but also in civil society. On many occasions Parliament has intervened and intervenes to decide the Italian position on issues relating to international security or on the organization of the resources of the Armed Forces. It is worth mentioning Parliament's intervention on the suspension of compulsory leverage and the introduction of voluntary military service. Today Parliament is speaking on the F-35 aircraft acquisition programme which Italy has been following since 1998. The F‐35 are bombers who, as is known, will replace other aircraft arrived at the end of their operational life. Tornado, AMX, AV-8B aircraft are starting to suffer from project seniority, being based on today's obsolete technologies. For this reason, in view of the approaching end of the operating life of the current aircraft, Italy has screened and chosen the F-35 as a system capable of replacing the Tornado, the AMX of the Air Force and the Sea Harrier of the Navy. In view of the 254 machines acquired in the past, it is expected today to acquire only 90 F-35 aircraft in two subversions to be assigned to the two Armed Forces. The aircraft to be replaced have been conceived, as it has already been clarified, in the seventies, have entered into service in the nineties and in a few years will finish their life cycle. Up to now they have guaranteed not only the defence of the national territory, but also contributed to the international role of our country in the maintenance of peace and in the containment of conflicts. That is why Parliament, if on the one hand it deliberates the participation of the armed forces in international missions, on the other, has a clear responsibility to ensure that they are adequately equipped to deal with any threats. It takes more than ten years to design a combat aircraft. They are therefore products that cannot be purchased when needed. Therefore, just as the Armed Forces now employ the weapons systems acquired in the past decades, in 2020 and 2030 will only be able to operate with security and efficiency if we are sufficiently forward-looking to support the long-term modernisation programmes. In other words, we have a responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, to allow Parliament in 2020 to choose whether or not to engage in international conflict management. In order for that choice to be effective, we must now ensure a process of modernisation of military equipment that is stable and forward-looking. We live in times of undeniable crisis and, however, there is the need not to neglect the international context that sees our country engaged in the construction of a European force that gives authority and credibility to Europe itself also in the system of defence and security. For this to happen, therefore, we also need to talk about operational instruments. Today, as the Chief of Staff of the Air Force has recently explained at the hearing, there is a 70% reduction in the aeronautical system and also the resources allocated to the defence and security sector in recent years, as is well known, have been reduced to 20%. However, there is no mention of the F-35 as additions that would penalise other sectors. Much disinformation has been diffused, mainly by that ideological anti-militarism that has always been fanciful in some areas of Italian politics. In fact, it is not true that this year EUR 13-14 billion will be spent on F-35s and that by cutting them you will have money for kindergartens, schools or the elderly. It is a distorted vision, fruit of ignorance or, often, of bad faith, for the sole purpose of intoxicating public opinion. Indeed, it is money that will be spent in the next 25 or 30 years, because the planes will be bought four or five at a time. Italy then reduced the order of the F-35 to 90 specimens, from 131 expected, and however, since they are investments, it is not money that can be used differently. However, these 90 aircraft will be delivered by 2027 and by 2020 we will be to 34 aircraft. On the other hand, through participation in the industrial programme, Italy is already gaining a significant return in terms of know-how that cannot otherwise be acquired, because it is not available at national and European level. In fact, in addition to the access to technologies so far exclusive to the US industry (in particular for the construction of Stealth aircraft), we will benefit from production processes conducted at the highest quality levels in the world today. The JSF (Joint strike fighter) program was immediately marked by the American will to allow other nations to participate in the development with various levels of partnership. Italy is a second-level partner, with a spending commitment of 4%, which allows for significant participation in development. This international collaboration will allow our country, through state-of-the-art equipment, to contribute to the Euro-Atlantic defensive system at a time of growing instability in many areas of Africa and the Middle East. In addition, in order to strengthen the opportunities for success and significantly expand the volume of activities carried out in Italy, Parliament has decided on industrial choices starting with that relating to the realization of the final assembly line (FACO), near Cameri, which place Italy in a position of advantage over the competitors. In this site already operate the excellences of the Italian aviation industry, about sixty companies that will be engaged for the next 40 years. In addition to ensuring a strong involvement of the national industry in the assembly of the aircraft, the FACO lends itself to being a center of maintenance and updating of the aircraft in service not only in the Italian Armed Forces, but also to the European users and in the Mediterranean region. Our duty today is not to disperse the already enormous resources that we have invested in the programme and not to undermine the considerable opportunities that open up for our production system. It is a great contribution to the economy of a territory, but also to the Italian high-tech industry as a whole. To give up this project would mean to downgrade our Air Force, as well as the cancellation of industrial opportunities and the loss of jobs in the sector. Providing its soldiers with state-of-the-art equipment and adequate equipment is a starting point for ensuring a sound national security and defence system. In this respect, the European Council in December will become the time when European countries will be called upon to find operational and industrial convergence, and to generate common operational and training structures. The president of the Senate Defence Commission, Senator Nicola Latorre, should be noted for the excellent preparatory work he is doing in view of the important summit. Having said that, the motion that we are going to vote on responds to the demands that come from many parts of the public for an additional reflection, transparency and parliamentary verification of the defence models and weapon systems of the country. At the same time, it must be clear that Italy cannot escape from the scenarios of industrial synergy and technological research from here to 2020. The risk would be to lose credibility and authority in a strategic sector. In this respect, the recent speech by the President of the Republic, who pointed out that the need for knowledge and union of the Defence Commissions cannot result in a right of veto on operational decisions and technical measures on the modernisation of armaments which, by their very nature, are among the constitutional responsibilities of the Commission. The recent law n. 244 of 2012, Article 4 regulates the modalities and contents of the information that the Government is required to provide to Parliament in the matter of military and arms policy. An innovation that exalts Parliament's ability to exercise control over government acts, examining the coherence between the planning of the military instrument and the spending decrees that materially initiate the acquisition of weapon systems. Parliament now has the power to verify that there is such consistency and to block spending decrees that are not consistent with the multiannual plan already submitted to Parliament by the Government. This innovation took place a few months ago, at the end of 2012, and it is therefore clear that it does not affect the acts carried out by Parliament and the Government many years earlier. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Alicata. Alicata (PdL). Yes, thank you, Mr. President. The F-35 programme started in 1998, with the agreement of all governments that have since succeeded each other. As far as I said, the PDL Group will vote in favour of the majority motion, as well as its determination to continue to participate in the debate at the next stages. [[Applause from the PdL Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u32	LATORRE (PD). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, dealing with the debate on such a delicate and complex subject, such as the F-35 programme, is certainly not easy, not only because it is only natural that any discussion on the programme of acquisition of a weapon should objectively push the voice of a feeling of peace, of a culture of peace, which fortunately is so strong in our country, but also because it is almost obvious, at a difficult time like this, that any expenditure not aimed at tackling the economic and social crisis that we are going through is considered questionable. These objective difficulties therefore impose on Parliament a moral duty, even more than a political one: to deal with the debate rigorously and, above all, using the language of truth, without giving anything to easy demagogies, short-sighted political exploitations and even useless folkloristic manifestations. In this debate, I say this with respect for all positions in the field, we are not faced with a choice between peace and war. I want to say it here, clearly: the Democratic Party has not diminished and does not intend to lower the flag of peace. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] If there is a connection in this debate, it must be sought in an increasingly intense relationship between defence policies, foreign policy and industrial policies of the country system. It must be said immediately that a modern, industrialized country, part of an international assembly, such as Italy, cannot and must not give up a defence system; nor can we oppose the expenditure aimed at supporting the defence system to the needs of welfare or other items of the state budget. I want to say to my colleagues in the Left and Freedom that we do not need to change our priorities: our priority, of course, is to devote all the resources that make themselves available to public policies to support growth and combat unemployment. The Defense then has its own budget, the allocation of which is part of the financial programming and expenditure, which already for some time provides for a reduction and rationalization much greater than those envisaged in other sectors of the State and those previewed also in the other Countries. To put it clearly, we are already reducing military spending. No additional resources, therefore, far from it. This budget includes the planned expenditure to reorganize our Armed Forces, to adapt our Army to the increasingly delicate functions, and not only military, to which it must absolve, in order to modernize our weapons instruments, the fleet of our Navy, our Air Force, since most of the planes are going into disuse for reached limit of flight hours. Here, the F-35 programme must be assessed in the context of these needs. This was well explained before me by all the colleagues from the Group of the Party of European Socialists who have spoken and whom I thank here, starting with Mr Vattuone, who presented the motion. Of course, now it is necessary to verify that the finished product is really perfected by every defect that, of course, has all prototypes. We really need to check the final costs in order to modulate any further decisions to be taken on the basis of our financial resources and at the same time try to achieve a greater return in economic and employment terms than those that have so far been registered. Therefore, the deepening provided for in the motion that we are going to vote on is fundamental and will also avoid reducing the complexity of these issues and choices that are difficult to achieve in terms of simplistic solutions. It is worth pointing out, however, how wrong it would be to address this issue, regardless of the awareness about the historical passage that the defence and security system is facing today, not only in our country. I say this because this emerges clearly from the discussion that we have heard here in the Senate, from that turning point in the House and from the one that is taking place in the media and on the Network. We are paying a very high price for the absence of a serious and long-term political reflection on our defence system. Among other things, many of the factors that guide and influence our defense model have changed radically in recent years. The change in the geopolitical scenario, the economic crisis have been factors that have made a radical reorganization of the armed forces necessary in Europe and in the United States. All major European democracies have already carried out a review of their defence systems, while our military instrument has in fact been redesigned in the absence of a genuine elaboration of a clear unitary strategic design. I believe that the lack of a public and transparent debate by Parliament on the new model of defence makes the choices relating to this area unintelligible and also leaves room, as we have seen in this debate, for incorrect statements and assessments. You can imagine how much this lack squeals with the increasing importance that today take on the policies of the defense of a country. Think of the importance for us of the engagement of the Armed Forces in international missions abroad (the Minister also recalled it here), not to mention those on national territory in emergencies, in national disasters. This gap must be filled and it is Parliament's job to take on board this need. The issue is, therefore, how to combine the existing programmes, including by remodulating them, with the need to complete Law No 244 of 2012, by activating all the measures that can follow European integration and reaffirming the centrality of Parliament on the choices that concern our defence system. In this sense, the reform introduced by Law 244 is particularly important, which finds an immediate link with two absolute needs for our country: to actively contribute to the process of defining European defence and to develop a new model of defence. Parliament remains the seat (it was well done by the Minister to underline this) where these decisions will be taken. We, as we are doing today, will continue to face this step by paying attention to the different sensibilities that are manifested and that have also manifested within my party, our parliamentary group and feeling the full weight of the responsibility of those who know, however, that there is a border between politics and witness. Who like us is in the government of a great country cannot and must not cross that border: only in this way is it possible to protect the constitutional value of peace, together with the same constitutional value of the protection, defence and security of our country. In short, we know that a great reformist force, such as the Democratic Party, cannot escape today, let alone escape this challenge tomorrow. It is in this spirit that we will vote in favour of motion No 107. [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u34	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u35	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order as a result of the Minister of Defence's opposing opinion on Amendment No 57, of which I am the first signatory. I am sorry that it has not been accepted, and perhaps not even understood, our indication, expressed yesterday in this House by myself and other Senators of the Democratic Party. I therefore disagree with my Group, inserting myself in the beehive of the so-called historic decisions of the Democratic Party. This is a dissension not only due to the fact that until now the MPs of the Democratic Party - or what was called a few years ago - had never voted in favour of participating in the F-35 programme (at most they had not participated in the vote, leaving the Commissions' classrooms), but also to the fact that, in the Democratic Party's electoral programme, which I read in part in the Assembly yesterday's sitting and which I released at the time of the recent political elections, it was written that the PD literally shares the public's concern about arms expenditure, that we absolutely need to review our commitment to the F-35s and that our priority is work. Having taken note of these positions, I must say that I am not convinced of what the Minister of Defence has just said about the inhibiting nature of motion 107 tabled by the Senators of the PD and the PdL, for the future. This does not seem to me to be the case, because expenditure has already been planned for this year and for the next two years and purchases are also planned for these months. I certainly do not presume to represent the pacifist demands in Parliament, but as I am part of that pacifist coffin so widely spread throughout the country and as I believe in the need to support and spread the culture of peace and pacifism in all social, party and political areas, I will vote in favour of motion 57. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u38	D'ANNA (PdL). Mr President, I apologise because I do not want to waste your time: I was pleased that you allowed Senator Casson to justify your dissenting vote by the Group, which, however, prevented me, with great nonchalance, at a previous sitting, at the time of the vote on motions concerning the companies participating in the State. I would just like to remind you of this, unless you feel that you are taking different attitudes on the basis of the notoriety and political depth of the senators who are calling for this type of intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u39	Senator D'Anna, we do not know that anything like this has happened, because on that occasion you asked the Presidency to intervene not to make an explanation of vote in dissent, but did so without giving any justification, while colleagues had previously spoken in an explanation of vote. If next time you have the kindness to notify the offices of your intentions, you will have every opportunity to take the floor you want. Thank you, Senator D'Anna. Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 8 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 8 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 8, 57, 82 (text 2) and 107 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 57. SANTANGELO (M5S). We ask for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore call on Senator Casson and other senators to vote simultaneously by electronic ballot on motion No 57. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 8, 57, 82 (text 2) and 107
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u42	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that I wanted to abstain, but I voted against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u45	GIROTTO (M5S). I too, Mr President, wanted to abstain and voted against.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u46	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 82 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 82 (text 2), tabled by Senator Battista and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). Resumption of the debate on motions Nos. 8, 57, 82 (text 2) and 107 president. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 107. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of motion No 107 tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We thank Minister Mauro for his cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u47	The next item is the debate on draft law No 843, already approved by the House of Deputies. (Brusio). Excuse me, but this is no time for recreation. We're moving on to another topic on the agenda. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The speakers, Senators Sacconi and Marino Mauro Maria, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Sacconi. ( [[Brusio]] ). I call on the House to put an end to this moment of relaxation.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u48	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, Senators and fellow Senators, this measure has been dismissed by the Labour and Finance Commissions in the same content as approved by the House of Deputies. The Commission, although welcoming some of the amending proposals, nevertheless considered that the most timely final conversion of the measure under discussion was necessary, in the belief that the effective delivery of social shock absorbers by way of derogation is urgently needed. However, they are not the only content of this measure, but they have long been expected by workers and workers as a result of a critical condition which occurred in the final phase of the past year, when the disbursements have reached a dimension not covered by the available resources, so that they have been interrupted by the Ministry of Labour and the National Social Security Institute. The Commission has also examined the critical issues which have arisen in particular during 2012 and which have resulted in the loss of control over the size of the disbursements in relation to the financial availabilities. Not surprisingly, the Government has warned of the need to refer to a secondary standardisation measure, after consulting Parliament and the social partners, for the definition of delivery criteria. Obviously, this measure will have to be produced on the basis of an agreement with the Regions, although I would like to remind you that, for the first time since there has been intensive use of these extraordinary instruments, the Regions will not contribute to the financing of these additional resources, as happened from 2009 to 2012. This can result in less careful and responsible management of these flexible tools. I would like to reiterate to the representative of the Government the concerns that some have expressed in this regard in the Commission and I myself, as rapporteur, have been able to express. Concerns that have been mainly determined by some manifest pathologies, such as the relationship between the employment of the so-called mobility in derogation from the integration fund, which in some Regions has reached almost 80%, unlike Regions, such as Emilia-Romagna, Tuscany or Lombardy, in which this percentage has been attested correctly around 7%. In fact, the exemption mobility allowance should be a tool to be used sparingly, to some extent ancillary, compared to the main purpose of allowing the continuity of jobs and productive activities which in workers have their main resource. In addition, a pathology consisting of significant payments to workers under the age of 60 and already receiving subsidies for more than five years was found in 2012 in particular. These pathologies have been highlighted above all in some regions and indicate a contradictory criticality with the purpose of these instruments and above all with the need of people to be accompanied to a return as timely as possible to the labour market. These subsidies, where so insistently paid out, have clearly played a negative role in order to lead to a sort of trap of exclusion from the labour market. I shall conclude with a reference to one of the refinancing cover of the Integration Fund by way of derogation, the one relating to the Fund for the detaxation of productivity wages. The Government has undertaken to re-integrate these resources in a timely manner, so that the fund has all the capacity envisaged to encourage as much as possible those neighbourhood arrangements which should result in wage increases linked to greater efficiency. I call on the Government to reiterate this intention and I will indeed end by asking the Government for the best attention to be paid to the numerous agendas presented, also in relation to the fact that I hope that this House will approve without amendment the text that the Commissions have fired for the reasons that, for the part of the work to which I have said, have been first illustrated by me.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u49	I call the rapporteur, Senator Marino Mauro Maria.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u50	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Joint Commissions have not proposed any amendments to the text already adopted by the House at first reading on 18 June 2013: this is a choice that has taken into account - and I would like to highlight this - a precise request from the Government, which also justifies a series of decisions that we will consider later in the discussion of the subject itself. This choice is also the result of the awareness that the few changes made by the Chamber did not affect the overall meaning of the decree. It contains measures aimed at suspending the payment of the first instalment of the own municipal tax - which is the part that most affixes to our competences - in addition to those that serve to protect the income of the workers through the refinancing of the social shock absorbers by way of derogation; it also contains provisions on the maintenance in the budget of sums relating to solidarity contracts, as well as fixed-term contracts in the public administrations, as well as as as well illustrated by my colleague Sacconi. The measure finally introduces the prohibition of cumulation for members of the Government of the salary treatment due as members of the Executive with the parliamentary allowance (or with the economic treatment in enjoyment, if civil servants). In the matter of municipal tax own the decree allows the Parliament and the Government to analyze thoroughly the complex matter of the real estate tax, giving for acquired that it will necessarily have to face, in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 1: the reform of the discipline of the municipal tax on the waste and the services; the modification of the articulation of the tax authority at the state and local level; the introduction of the deductibility for the purpose of determining the income of the enterprise of the municipal tax own relating to the properties used for productive activities. As rapporteur and President of the Commission, I would add that the revision of the levy in terms of greater equity and support for economic growth must be accompanied by these profiles, including the land register, the levy on rental income and real estate transfers. These elements of discussion have emerged clearly from the numerous hearings held in the context of the survey on real estate taxation which saw the Finance and Treasury Commission engaged from 15 May to 25 June, and which should be concluded after the hearing of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, which is due to take place next week. It is a commitment to offer the Commission a proposal for action, hopefully shared, in which the lines of the reform are outlined. It is precisely in the light of these considerations that our will has been to consider this as a bridge measure pending a more comprehensive vision of a matter that we consider important and significant to which we must put our hand by paying attention in general terms and not only with reference to the case of the IMU which is the one we are dealing with here. In this context, there was the conviction that the decree-law under consideration was a mere legal requirement that would give time to the legislator to address the issue. Moreover, the simple list of subjects and numerous agendas accepted by the Government in the Commission takes into account the various issues that will have to be addressed in the reform. Therefore, it is not the logic of precise and punctual interventions in the substance of the amendment, but rather the desire to outline a path to which the subsequent measures will have to refer. With regard to the issues of the 6th Commission's greatest interest, the first two articles of the Decree-Law are highlighted. In particular, the article 1, paragraph 1, is aimed at the suspension for the year 2013 of the payment of the first instalment of the IMU, expired on 16 June, for certain categories of buildings: main dwelling and related appliances, excluding buildings classified in the cadastral categories A/1, A/8 and A/9; real estate units belonging to the building cooperatives with undivided property, used as principal residence and related appliances of the assigning members, as well as housing regularly assigned by the autonomous institutes of popular houses (IACP) or by the entities having the same purposes as the IACP; agricultural land and rural buildings referred to in Article 13 (4), (5) and (8) of Decree-Law No 201 of 2011. As stated above, paragraph 1 also provides that such suspension shall be carried out in the context of a comprehensive reform of the rules governing the taxation of property assets, to be carried out on the basis of the following principles. Paragraph 2 introduces a rule of derogation from the provisions of Article 222 of the Single Text of the Laws on Local Government Laws (TUEL), regarding the granting of treasury advances by the treasurer at the request of the local authority, providing for a temporary increase of the maximum limits for the use of advances for the Municipalities until 30 September 2013, in order to guarantee to these institutions the liquidity necessary to compensate for the lower revenues resulting from the suspension of the payment of the first instalment of the IMU, which should have been made in June. It is remembered in fact, but I think it is plionistic, that according to the current discipline, of article 1, paragraph 380, of the law of stability 2013, is attributed to the Municipalities the entire IMU revenue, to the exclusion of that deriving from the real estate for productive use, that instead remains destined to the State. The maximum limit for the use of cash anticipation is extended, compared to the ceiling defined in Article 222 TEU, by an amount corresponding, for each municipality, to 50% of the total IMU revenue for the year 2012, as indicated in Annex A to the measure. Paragraph 2-a, inserted by the Chamber, allows instead the municipalities that resort to the anticipation of treasury exclusively for the suspension of the payment of the IMU, ordered by paragraph 1, to use, for the year 2013, the administrative surplus not bound by derogation from what established by article 187, paragraph 3-a, of the TUEL. Paragraph 3 provides that interest charges resulting from the use of the largest treasury advances are reimbursed to each municipality by the Ministry of the Interior. For the modalities and the terms of the refund is referred to a special decree of the Ministry of the Interior, to be adopted within twenty days from the date of entry into force of the decree under consideration. Paragraph 3-a, also inserted by the Chamber, allows to extend also to the unions of Municipalities as provided by paragraphs 2 and 3 regarding the extension of the use of cash anticipation. For the unions of municipalities therefore, at the request of the municipalities concerned, reference must be made, in whole or in part and as an alternative to its use by the individual municipality, to the increase of anticipation allowed and recognized to each common component of the union. With regard to the repayment of the advance, this will be the responsibility of the individual municipalities which are members of the union, to an extent equivalent to the share of the advance requested by each. Paragraph 4 provides for the financial cover of the charges. Article 2 provides that the reform of the rules on real estate taxation referred to in Article 1 will have to be implemented in accordance with the primary policy objectives set out in the 2013 Economic and Financial Document, as a result of the relevant parliamentary resolutions and, in any case, in line with the commitments made at European level. I should like to conclude with a very delicate passage, because it is prodromic to the activity that we will have to carry out at a later stage. If the reform is not adopted by 31 August 2013, the current rules on the taxation of real estate will continue to apply and, to this end, the deadline for the payment of the first instalment of the IMU is set at 16 September 2013. This deadline is therefore an incentive to find a quick and, above all, as well as a shared solution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u51	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the IMU, if it were not for the consequences it has on citizens and businesses, would be a case that psychiatry should take care of. Today's is yet another postponement of the decision: it is played with numbers hoping that God will send it good. Read in a press conference he explained that the most difficult problem is to find coverage and that the 2013 budget is still rigid and does not enjoy the flexibility guaranteed by the decision announced by Brussels. The government is like the IMU: suspended, even hung by a thread, and Berlusconi holds the wire in his hand. Do you remember Berlusconi on the IMU? By letter he had informed us on how and how to access the refund of the IMU paid in 2012 on the first house and on agricultural land and buildings. He said, "If I wasn't sure a thousand percent that the IMU could be returned, would I have sent a letter to nine million people who, having the letter in their hands, could legitimately sue me by asking me to return the four billion paid? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Our Prime Minister succeeds in overcoming Berlusconi too when he celebrates the grand results achieved in Europe: we have done it! Too bad that the verb to do is used more as a wish than as a conviction, because the great conquest at European level actually allows only a small temporary deviation within the year from the 3% constraint in the deficit-GDP ratio. This does not allow the remaining EUR 100 billion of debts owed by public administrations to companies to be repaid; it does not allow the tax wedge to be cut by at least 5 points in order to breathe the economy; it does not allow anything, except to issue decrees of not doing. This government ignores a real economy made up of men and women who have no reason to celebrate, with the productive base reduced to the minimum terms, with levels of unemployment to be shivering, with a welfare in vain, with research costs below the European average, with an enemy tax, intrusive and unsustainable. Great reforms continue to be promised: even the one announced regarding the IMU will turn into new taxes for Italians, because they will introduce the service tax, or they will finance the abolition or remodulation of the IMU, shifting the tax burden on existing taxes, perhaps increasing the rates. The game is always the same. Why all this? Because, beyond the government's small demonstration actions, the raw truth is that we intend to deal with the emergency by proposing austerity again. We do not want to admit that austerity policies, which have already been extensively tested, have not produced the expected effects in terms of either growth or public finances, as the debt-to-GDP ratio continues to rise dramatically. The government insists that it wants to keep its commitments with Europe, so much so that the future premier candidate, Matteo Renzi, as a good schoolboy, has already run by Chancellor Merkel to take notes on how to continue to hurt us as much as possible. The Court of Auditors pointed out that Italy must have a nominal growth rate of GDP of more than that required of other European countries for the next 20 years in order to ensure a balanced budget and respect for debt constraints, and that Italy's primary surplus must be higher than that of other European countries, defining this path as unrealistic. Letta is destined to pretend to do, to permanently postpone and to launch the reform of the IMU. In fact, we find ourselves with the IMU postponed to September; it is a mini extension of three months. The companies, which have now collapsed, have not even been considered in the postponement: the IMU imposed on the industrial sheds or on the shops of the historic center or still on the unsold properties of the construction companies represents for them the gas pipe. We of the 5 Star Movement are ready to assume our responsibilities: we have a great desire to put an end to this horrible show. Once and for all, stop lying to the Italians, delude them with the 'zero comma', with insignificant support for companies, with delays financed by shifting taxation from one side to the other. We call for the abolition of the IMU and for businesses (agricultural and non-agricultural) to return to the level of taxation prior to its introduction. The resources must be found and there are several measures that can be taken immediately. I would like to mention a few of them: the cut-off of unnecessary agencies; the abolition of tax concessions which affect few to the detriment of many; the abolition of intermediate bodies and apparatus between municipalities and provinces; the abolition of Provinces; the abolition of electoral refunds to parties; the abolition of public funding to publishing; and the reduction of parliamentary allowances. If you want to help the country, the recovered resources must be used to reduce public debt and tax and contributory rates. The savings of the expenditure review must be returned to the citizens. We're here: if you don't want to keep teasing the Italians, step forward. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Uras]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Angioni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senators, Mr ISTAT has recently released the May data on the state of unemployment in our country and, once again, a dramatic and alarming picture of the situation in the Italian labour market comes out of it. The unemployment rate is 12.2%, 0.2 points higher than in April and almost two percentage points higher in the twelve months. The unemployed in the age group between fifteen and twenty-four are 38.5%, down by more than one point compared to the previous month, but rising by almost three points compared to 2012. In different regions of the Mezzogiorno, then, as in my region, Sardinia, for example, the percentage of youth unemployment exceeds 50% (the percentage of unemployment for girls only exceeds 50%). In this context, the measures contained in Article 4 of the provision to the attention of the Senate today were and are particularly expected, although of course, it must be said immediately, the provision does not represent the definitive solution to the problems of life of the subjects who will benefit from it, but contains some instruments that can, albeit partially, safeguard the maintenance of their dignified condition and avoid their falling towards absolute poverty, loneliness and despair. Let me briefly review the measures contained in Article 4 of the measure, as amended by the House of Deputies. First of all, the refinancing of social shock absorbers is provided for by way of derogation. On the one hand, the amount of resources already allocated is confirmed and, on the other hand - it was not at all obvious - a further increase of EUR 250 million from the Social Fund for Employment and Training is foreseen. It is also possible to accelerate the administrative procedure for refinancing and the further increase in the resources of the Social Fund for Employment and Training totalled 219 million for 2013, in addition to 288 million from the reprogramming of the Structural Funds co-financed by the Regions. It is then entrusted to an interministerial decree of the Minister of Labour, in agreement with that of the economy, to be adopted within sixty days from the date of entry into force of the decree-law, the determination, in compliance with the planned budgetary balances, of the criteria for the granting of the same social shock absorbers in derogation. On this point, the absolute delicacy of the matter and the need for particular attention also by Parliament must be stressed. That is why, in my opinion, the House of Deputies has appropriately included, among other subjects called upon to express binding opinions, also the competent parliamentary committees, not initially provided for by the Government's decree. We also welcome the introduction of the monitoring of expenditure under the INPS, which will allow the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Economy to intervene in the sector with appropriate measures on expenditure developments. As a Democratic Party we express satisfaction to the Government for having managed to find the resources to refinance the shock absorbers by way of derogation and also to allocate new ones. However, we are aware - the Government has begun a serious reflection on the point - while also these additional resources will not be sufficient to satisfy all the needs, but also the urgent need to review if not to reconceive these instruments in order to arrive at measures that, on the one hand, are always consistent with their purpose and that, on the other hand, they can have a general value and are able not to leave only workers and unemployed of all the productive sectors, of every age, of the public and of the private, of the employed but also of the self-employment. Returning to the measure, the resources already earmarked for solidarity contracts are re-committed and not yet spent, with over 57 million; then the public administrations are allowed to extend until 31 December 2013 some fixed-term employment contracts in the public administration. In addition, with an amendment to the decree presented to the House of Deputies, it is possible to extend certain fixed-term employment contracts for educational and school staff working in nursery schools and nursery schools of municipal authorities. Finally, the deadline for fixed-term employment contracts due to expire on 30 June 2013 is extended to 31 December 2013 by the workers employed at the single desks for immigration of prefectures, government territorial offices, and at the immigration offices of the police stations. These are, in summary, the measures of the Government contained in Article 4. When I come to the conclusions now, I do not think it is unnecessary to mention one fundamental point: those of the measure at our examination, which someone called buffer (the President of the Commission also mentioned a few minutes ago), are instruments that try to address the employment emergency by looking at the living needs of real people and their families, not only - and therefore - with statistical approaches. However, the main problem remains - and always - how to activate and promote policies of development and economic recovery; how, in essence, to make the soil more fertile for the revitalization of the productive fabric of our country. From here you don't run away: the problem of Italy is still this. We must not forget that the crisis hits our country by a lustre, but that our economic system does not substantially grow and is cast by more than three lustres. The problem of how to reduce the drama of those who have lost their jobs cannot be tackled unless the theme of how to promote a strong recovery that creates new productive initiatives and - therefore - new opportunities for work is at the centre. On the other hand, workers and citizens do not ask the government and this Parliament to be mere witnesses and do not even ask for verbal expressions of solidarity; they ask for proposals and solutions that are not superficial and can give hope for their future. That is why we can say that, with the scarce resources available and within the limits we have said, the measure we are debating today, although it is not the final solution, tries to give concrete answers for the quota, at least to some great and serious needs of the citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u55	She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, with reference to your bill No 843, we see a timid attempt to lengthen the agony of this country in rubble: an extenuating expectation of a solution to the real structural problems, which we do not see. We are faced with a further attempt by the Government to try to repair a situation that is now torn: far-sighted and far-reaching policies we do not find: we suspend the IMU for a while, but then who knows; we suspend the TARSU for a while, but then who knows; they give back some social shock absorbers by way of derogation, but then who knows; we continue within the set deadline and take time. To be malicious, it would seem to witness a further action of melina (called in football terms), not to displease and please a little 'everyone. Here the game is stretching far too far and you don't understand which team will win, while you know very well who is losing: the citizens lose. Note of praise is the elimination of the salaries of parliamentarians members of the Government. But, even here, we allow ourselves to say that we can do better and more. We of the Five Star Movement have already given certain rules without the need of decrees-laws. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let's face it, we jumped into the chair when we read where you want to get the $10 million to extend contracts to employees working at immigration counters. You want to get them at the fund for solidarity with the victims of the mobs? Oh, my gosh! Even Superciuk, who stole from the poor to give to the rich, would not have been more diabolical! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Only here he takes the poor to give the desperate. What if we take them from parliamentarians' end-of-term checks or gold pensions? What do you think, we're gonna do this crazy? A blow to the head; for once we take to who has and give to who has not? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In short, definitive solutions to the points you have pointed out are not there and, at a time of such high economic difficulty and high social tension, sugar can serve up to a certain point. Let's face it openly: the situation is explosive, this is the comment that comes from almost all regional administrations. And we refer above all to Article 4 of this decree-law: the Integration Fund in derogation that cuts the country across, without exception. So yes to refinancing of a billion: it is a necessary and vital measure for hundreds of thousands of households. But, gentlemen, it takes more courage. Article 34 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union already provides for the solution and also our Constitution provides for forms of protection aimed at the citizen; one for all Article 3. Europe's demands to conform to its dictates are not only to be observed when it calls for sacrifices, but also when they themselves define rules to guarantee dignity and social cushions by way of derogation as fundamental expressions of the right to citizenship. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The urgent decree must no longer be the rule or the alibi to hide a systemic disease of lack of foresight. Living in the day destabilizes the mood and anxiety of a society that sees increased day by day the Cassaintegrati, the exodati, the unemployed, the unemployed, the young migrants and - olè! - the exuberates. Semi-fresh news: Public administration wants to take out another 7,800 heads. The crisis we are experiencing is, according to everyone, the most serious one recorded after 1929. How are we gonna get through this? With the patches and the referrals? Or do we really shake things up and change everything? Every day the line of people eating at the Caritas cafeteria is enlarged. What are we waiting for? The income of citizenship at this point is a duty towards the citizen. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] In 1966 FIAT CEO Vittorio Valletta earned sixty times more than his workers; Today Marchionne earns four hundred times more than one of his workers, who in the meantime also had to give up, under blackmail, most of the acquired rights. In the name of flexibility 34 new contractual formulas and various applications have been introduced: a downward race to make better use of the worker; a free fall and new social risks that a lacked and atrophied state will not be able to heal in the absence of other patches and caps. While poor pensions are at risk of crack, Mr. Mastrapasqua, President of INPS, holds 24 or 25 billionaire positions endorsed by this policy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Damn it! There is a deep iniquity in the distribution of wealth. But do you not doubt that someone eventually gets tired of being caught by the neck? Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. Time's running out. We have a duty to overturn this shameful system. However, we wonder how we can find solutions from those who caused the disaster. Gentlemen, the Titanic is here and it's sinking, and we think it's looking if the tendons are well ironed and starched and if the brass of the musicians are polished. Make sure the champagne serves it well frozen! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u57	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u58	Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of taxation in our country is a burning and complex matter, applied with difficulty and understood by the Italian citizens taxpayers with as much difficulty; its extension and extent in all fields is a matter of great concern, not only for those who do not pay taxes, but also and in the first place for those who pay them and want to continue paying them and it is clear that a speech of greater clarity and even greater equity must be made on this subject. We believe that, in the first place, the issues relating to the world of work and production and, at the same time, also those relating to large assets, which in our country have not been adequately considered from the point of view of taxation, should be put under the magnifying glass. IMU is a controversial issue, also used to develop electoral campaigns of illusion of voters and public opinion. Nevertheless, it must be dealt with with with fairness and justice. We believe that taxation on the first non-luxury house is unfair and therefore that this type of taxation must be reviewed, in the light of a different balance that must be found with respect to the higher incomes and, especially with regard to IMU, those assets that are of particular importance and that certainly do not receive severe penalties with regard to income capacity. The first non-luxury house must therefore be exempted from all taxation; the same must apply to the sheds and to buildings intended for industrial activity and in particular to the places of production, whether industrial or agricultural. In fact, production is one of the fundamental elements of our country's economy, in terms of both converted materials and agricultural productions. We also consider it necessary to exempt from taxation buildings built and not sold, owned by construction companies, because in front of a warehouse, such buildings, it would be a mistake to apply a tax that also affects the future production capacity of the companies themselves. There is also a need for rapid updating of cadastral incomes, because there are too many shadow areas, particularly in high-quality areas, as well as in some important historic centres. The fairness of this taxation is achieved, firstly, by hitting those who have not contributed in the past or who contribute to the present in a very limited way. However, ladies and gentlemen, the overall tax burden must be lowered. The process must be compatible with the real situation of our country, with particular regard to revenue and public expenditure. There can be no demagogic flight, as is invoked in many parts, because we must prepare this possible future through a concrete and real approach of the present. Strict public spending is therefore the first element we need to address in order to make a reduction in taxation compatible. Again, there are too many grey areas; too many are the generalized cuts still applied and no longer acceptable. The symbolic cuts in the policy and functioning of some representative institutions are useful to give a sense of direction, but they are not enough. Demagogy does not produce concrete and lasting results over time. The resources available must be devoted to reducing labour costs and supporting employment. We all say that, but we must have the capacity to propose concrete measures. Then, well, the initiative in the direction of detaxation and cost reduction with regard to start-up and permanent work. We must abandon ideological prejudices and face with realism the difficulties of integration into the world of work, which are not always linked to negative choices of entrepreneurship, but often arise from the objective difficulties of the economic situation. A special consideration with regard to IMU and relations with municipal administrations. The municipalities, as is evident, are in great difficulty. They must be guaranteed adequate income in order to guarantee citizenship services. We must give credit to good administration and make the municipalities responsible, but we must make it very clear that it is also necessary to make the voters responsible. Too many administrations get approval simply because they do not apply appropriate taxation. On this side we are not willing to go. Therefore, greater realism, less demagogy and more sense of responsibility. [[Applause from Senators Berger and Mastrangelo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u59	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u60	Mr President, I should like to begin by making a fundamental point. Exactly four months have passed since the establishment of the new Parliament, which is systematically, if not exclusively, examining measures prepared by the Government. We are faced with a huge production of decree-laws that deal with the most varied issues, many of which I have the doubt that they are neither indifferent nor urgent. This obliges Parliament, therefore, also this Senate, to work with the amending proposals on those measures and to renounce, at the same time, its function of producing rules that are consistent with the needs, even the most significant ones, of our national community, passing through the confrontation, the discussion and the deepenings, which are possible in its own right. I say this not because of past behavior, but because of a behavior that is even more significant in the future. I say this because we are coming from a session on institutional and constitutional reforms during which many of us, and also many of you, have said that we do not touch the centrality of Parliament. So, if you don't touch it, let's figure out how you don't touch it. The demands for confidence on government measures are beginning to appear on the horizon. The government in office is not a Government in full health, nor, despite the vast majority, very free from the objectives for which it was born. Yet the demands for confidence in measures are on the horizon. But what are we looking at today? We are examining a measure which deals essentially with three issues. The first question is the postponement of taxes, taxes on buildings and the postponement of taxes on municipal services (collection and disposal of municipal solid waste and anything else relating to the activity of local authorities). The second point we are examining is a sort of trick, a propaganda, and it concerns the cancellation of the additional allowance of Members of Parliament who perform government functions. The third question we are going to examine is the extension of precarious public contracts. I can understand that these issues had a political urgency because a new government is in office. However, I do not understand what kind of economic urgency they have, except that this measure also deals with the issue of treatment by way of derogation from the Integration Fund. It would have sufficed to say that the fund allocated to the integration fund was increased by means of a measure fulfilling this task, also declaring the responsibility for having provided insufficient funding to cover this need throughout the year. That's not the reality. First. This is yet another measure that intervenes intently on a complex system of rules to which local authorities are called implementation, the enlarged public system, especially the decentralised public system: municipalities, provinces and regions. This is the umpteenth time that we intervene with a body of rules with a leg tense on a system that is suffering, and it is for the type of relationship that it has with the citizen, because there is a systematic intervention of the Government that does not take into account those operators, those institutions, their functions and the relationship with the citizen and thinks exclusively of managing itself politically and in terms of the agreements that have already been concluded with other institutional levels. Second question. This is the umpteenth time that the accounts are wrong, because also the coverage of the integration fund by derogation provided for in this measure is already - everyone knows - inadequate. The reference that is made is right (I address, in particular to the rapporteur, Senator Sacconi): the Regions had to share, because the exclusion of the Regions, although it has been asked by many Presidents of the Region, does not allow those who want (in fact, it is for them a justification) to intervene with own financial resources to cover the deficiencies of a forecast that is inadequate already today. I wonder, and I ask the government: who does the math? Is that how you do the math? Because in one or two months we will have to come back to this House again to discuss a government measure and update those financial allocations that have not been updated today. Yet we know very well that the objective conditions will not change, if not for worse. The third question concerns the precarious and, in particular, the precarious in the public sector. For years, systematically, within the provisions of the government or the stability law, which used to be called the financial law, we have established that the organic endowments of public bodies must be squeezed down. After we have established this, we begin to make temporary hirings and, since provisions that make it difficult for us to make such recruitments, we begin to make supply contracts with temporary employment agencies, with a trick that is used by the national health system and, systematically, by the system of local self-governments, but also by the Ministries: we employ staff to perform ordinary functions of the public system through the supply contracts. This is therefore a country in which the Government - as well as the previous one and many before him - and Parliament are forced to approve things based on absolutely false statements and false considerations. In this way you do not get out of the current condition. If there is no other government measure, which Parliament will approve as a notary (I say so to the majority parties), the municipalities will approve the budget on 30 September of the current year. What is there to establish, as a budget, on 30 September of this year, compared to the current financial year, will explain to me those who do the accounts and the Government that proposes these extensions. Maybe the government will also come to say that, since on September 30 it is not possible to approve the budgets (since we do not know how the IMU will be orchestrated, and we must also consider the TARES, so probably we will intervene on the cadastral parameters and therefore it will take time), the budget of the local authorities for 2013 will be done on December 31. A budget that is made on 31 December is a problem: but is it conceivable that in the laws of the State lies, lies, even from the technical point of view, are affirmed? But what credibility do we have towards the citizens, whom we ask for rational behavior? What authority do we have if we don't tell them what they're like? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Uras, because your time is running out. I'm finishing, Mr. President. So it could well have been said that to make the budget in time, within a logical date, the economic benchmarks of the previous year are used. [[Applause from the SEL, M5S and Candiani, De Pin and Sangalli senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u61	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u62	Mr President, representatives of the Government, dear citizens, all of us today, tourism in Italy, is a sector that is growing in international demand, even in times of global crisis. It therefore seems appropriate that this Government should bear in mind the right measures to help companies overcome the decline in turnover of the internal market, increasing its competitiveness. In many regions and especially in many Italian cities and localities, tourism is the most important voice of the economy. From the reading of the data reported by the Bank of Italy on international tourism it is found that, just in the period between January and April 2013, the expenditure of foreign travellers who have visited Italy has remained substantially stable compared to the same period of 2012, thus maintaining the trend of the average national turnover. Therefore, it would seem appropriate to consider, as already referred to the Committee on Industry, Trade and Tourism, of which I am honoured to be a member, the inclusion of a special provision allowing, in the context of an organic review, significant reduction measures of the IMU for buildings for industrial use and instrumental in the exercise of business activity, for commercial use and for the use of tourist-receptive activities. This tax measure for buildings used for tourist-receptive activities is also crucial in terms of employment, in order to support and encourage enterprises towards new recruitment. It should also be considered a type of social shock absorber which, at times of crisis, does not exceed four months, provides for an allowance equal to that of unemployment and the maintenance of social security and insurance charges for workers. The bill also appears as a perfect mirror for allodoles: the so-called government of doing is shown by the Government of extensions, referrals, the Government of omnibus decree-laws, as said by my colleague Uras. One wonders when this Government will decide to take effective measures, because an extension or postponement often appear too convenient means to avoid taking responsibility for it. Yes, precisely those escapes of responsibility of which we are accused of the 5 Star Movement. We take them, you, we are still waiting for you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Speaking of responsibility, I would like to say to all of you that when there is a need to tighten the belt it is good that they all do so and it is good to start by taxing more those who have more, and therefore, why not intervene by taxing higher assets, or by beginning to name terms such as "the Church" that perhaps no one here wants to name? There is a situation of blatant violation (so I define it) of the fundamental principles of our Republic, such as freedom, justice, equality and secularism of the Republic. Charging the IMU to ecclesiastical bodies on real estate or parts of real estate in which commercial activities are carried out means recovering resources to be allocated to sectors such as education, for simple things, not complex. Among other things, removing from the payment of the IMU the part of property used strictly for commercial activities means obtaining the Church an exemption, think well, that varies from 600 million to 2 billion euros, amounts of which instead, if taken with the measure in question, we could benefit and could benefit mainly the municipal administrations, who no longer have resources to administer. Italians can no longer accept that in a period of crisis such as the present one someone can escape his tax duty. Yes, because paying taxes is a duty, and it is a duty of all, including the Church. Someone made the abolition of the IMU a winning political horse, someone else made the exemption from the IMU a real dogma. The first helps the second and the broad understandings are doing the rest. In the end, it's hard for you to pay the taxes that no one wants to tax. I'm done. IMU, amen. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u63	Senator Munerato is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u64	Mr President, representative of the Government, fellow senators, it is difficult to share this provision, because, as the first act of the Government in office, we expected more, especially after the speech of the Presidents of the Council of Letta, full of courageous promises revealed by this decree proclaims ephemeral. We point out that the North League shares the aim of the measure: stop at the IMU, reduce the costs of the policy and extend the shock absorbers by way of derogation. What he does not agree with is the mockery of the citizens, families and workers that this decree puts into effect, because it is a measure with good intentions, but no immediate and structural intervention. There is no measure to lighten the tax burden on businesses and households, no guarantee of income cover for workers who have lost their jobs. On the IMU, in fact, the decree is limited to previewing a suspension of the payment of the first installment 2013 until next 16 September. Afterwards it is not given to know what will happen: if the tax on the first house will remain or if there will be another one, or if instead, at best, it will be abolished. But with what covers? Where will the 4 billion needed for the total abolition of the first house tax be found? And will the buildings used for the main activity be included or excluded from the abolition? As you can see, the questions are many and this decree offers no answer. Similarly, the measures provided for in Article 4 concerning social shock absorbers by way of derogation buffer the emergency for three months and then, for those concerned, the darkness. The Regional Councillors at work have launched the alarm cry: there is still 1 billion left to cover the needs throughout 2013. The resources allocated in the decree are hardly enough to guarantee the shock absorber by way of derogation until the end of July (i.e. until now), and in less than fifteen days the problem will arise again. It is paradoxical: we are debating and approving a text that allocates resources that have already been completed. The same representative of the Government, the Undersecretary of the Aringa, intervening in the debate of the Commissions combined finances and work, to which I and my colleague Bellot took part, in taking note of the complaints of the Regions regarding the resources destined to the supply of shock absorbers in derogation not yet available, admitted that the issues addressed in this measure are only partially resolved, and that further interventions of an organic nature are necessary. Other than bridge decreto, as the Government has called it: we could call it smoke decreto or vile decreto. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Orellana]] , since there was no courage to undermine positions and privileges in order to find the resources necessary for the derogation fund, as could the provision of equalization on high pension treatment and with remuneration calculation, or by setting a ceiling on public pensions paid with remuneration calculation, as we in the League proposed with our amendments which we are proposing again in this House in the hope that they will be accepted. It is clear, in fact, that the resources for priority measures, such as the extension of shock absorbers by way of derogation, must be found through a cut in public expenditure and not by reducing the resources allocated to work and businesses, as this decree does. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Paglini]] , drawing on the appropriations provided for reductions in productivity premiums. You, like Monti before, have proved helpless in making some decisions that could affect the so-called gold pensions and the public maxitributions. There are men and women without work, exodus who often think about suicide and sometimes put it into practice, and your answer is always: Article 81, there is no cover. If you look well, the money is there: just take away some money from the gold pensioners. You always talk about solidarity but you show great selfishness. For these reasons we express our concern about the text and we hope that it will be improved in the course of the debate in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Bencini and Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Orellana. You have the right to do so. Orellana (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law No 843 on the IMU and much more (I will be allowed the line: the title of the same bill seems to be that of a film by Lina Wertmüller), as amended by the House, now also contains the question of the approximately 100 thousand fixed-term workers in public administrations with contracts due to expire on 31 July: the decree now contains an extension to 31 December for these contracts. The cases laid down by law for fixed-term employment in public administrations concern the temporary and exceptional nature of the duties to be performed by the worker. Time limits are also established (a worker may have a fixed-term contract with the same public administration for no more than 36 months in the last five years) and quantitative (public administrations may have fixed-term staff for a percentage of all staff not exceeding 6%). The rules on fixed time are somewhat controversial because it is easy to ascertain and demonstrate how the legislation leaves ample room for abuse: recruitment for tasks that are neither temporary nor exceptional; the most obvious case, in this decree-law, is that of educators in kindergartens and municipal schools, whose tasks, being the average stable birth rate, are not subject to significant changes over the years, making the so wide recourse to fixed-term contracts unjustified. The extension included in the decree-law is certainly necessary, but at the same time it shows the limits, contradictions and also the hypocrisies of recourse to atypical contracts in public administrations. The Government should intervene to simplify the regulatory framework on flexibility, which too often masks precariousness, and also impose much more stringent constraints on public administrations and companies controlled by them on the recruitment of these contracts. The 5 Star Movement has among its founding principles the abolition of the precarious and the reform Biagi, but the demand for a true reform, that is not the umpteenth counter-reform, of the labour market comes not only from us, but from Italians and above all from young people. Italians are tired of being told the lie that flexibility helps youth employment: it has been repeated as a mantra for twenty years, since the Treu package with the first Prodi Government, and the results are before everyone's eyes. And even public administrations, which should set an example, use atypical contracts instead to underpay employees and to save on the contributions to be paid. Returning to the case of the one hundred thousand workers for whom the decree-law introduces the extension of contracts, the emergency is due to the fact that obviously, in contradiction with the determined nature of the contracts, these workers do not perform exceptional and temporary tasks (some go back to 2002 and with various extensions we have arrived to 2013), but continuous and structural, to the point that the measure proposes as a solution an extension of another six months (apart from the case of the kindergartens' staff), according to the spirit of timer that seems to distinguish the "Government of doing". They are in large part one hundred thousand precarious young people who have been working in public administrations for years, carrying out structural and continuous tasks, and now risk being expelled from them. It is not enough for us the albeit laudable exception introduced with paragraph 4-a of Article 4 for the only educational and school staff for which it is possible to extend to 31 July 2014. These workers deserve more. In order to give them greater security, it would be appropriate for the Parliamentary process of the bill to extend the extension of contracts from six months to at least one year (even more) for all and to introduce criteria whereby, by way of exception from the current legal criteria, contracts from time to time should be transformed where necessary (i.e. where the tasks carried out are not really temporary and exceptional). Public administration must set an example: Parliament and the Government must give a clear and responsible response about the future of these 100,000 workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Mussolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u66	Mr President, I have felt the need to speak on this point because some Members have complained that while we are talking about the centrality of Parliament we continue to go on with conversions into law by decree-laws. But this has always been done and, I must tell you the truth, with these rules that allow colleagues in some parties to extend further the debate - given that the Rules of Procedure of the Senate allow each vote to request an electronic vote, after verification of its support - it is not easy to avoid doing so. Clearly there is a further lengthening of time, which I find frankly inconceivable: I do not know whether it is a new way of doing a new obstructionism, or anything else. It was also important to make it clear - and I would like to do so with this very brief speech which will take a few minutes - that it is difficult to oppose when we are faced with a measure that puts into practice, with the resources found, what has been said not only in the electoral campaign by the parties that make up the majority of the Government, but also by the President of the Letta Council itself, when he stated the priorities that were then implemented in ways that were also part of the emerging situation and crisis that we are experiencing. It is certainly difficult to make an intervention with a form of opposition, because some parties have one opposition in this House and then another outside. Then it is difficult to make an intervention against, when we said that it was necessary to eliminate - in any case not to make the citizens pay - the IMU's instalment, and this has been achieved. They say it's just a suspension. The suspension, however, means - to put it simply - that the Italians did not throw a euro out of their pockets, when instead they had to prepare to pay this tax that affects their assets, their substances, that is, the first house. This has been done. Let us not forget the TARES, another extremely delicate and very heavy tax, and the same VAT. So, I am sorry, but it must be said that it is not demagogy: what was announced by President Letta was accomplished and it was also carried out by the PdL not only during the election campaign but above all at the first steps of the Government. Not only has this measure dealt with the very delicate issue of social shock absorbers, that of shock absorbers by way of derogation (which I consider not to be marginal), the ban on the accumulation of salaries for those who are part of the Government and is also parliamentary or plays a role in the public service has been put in place. These are important facts that I believe should be underlined otherwise it seems that we are playing here. This is a measure that will have to find resources, but it is the result of a great responsibility. I remember that it is extremely difficult at this stage to maintain what has been said and to give clear and immediate answers to the citizens. Therefore, there will certainly be broad convergence on this text which - I repeat - keeps its promises, without demagogy and with a great sense of responsibility. Someone said you're making melina: I want to remember that often making melina (and they made you great football players) you win the games. Therefore, let us go ahead and work together to give answers to the citizens and not to make melina on other fields. [[Applause from the PdL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u67	She is registered to speak Senator Fabbri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis in our country - as is well known - has no precedent. The economic difficulties of families are affected by the economic and productive fabric of small and very small enterprises that are still struggling on the market. They have to be helped, rewarded, listen. Attempts to relocate should be avoided. New forms of promotion of their knowledge must be experimented. Small entrepreneurs and their employees must be safeguarded. This state of affairs, in addition to leading to strong social instability, risks abandoning citizens in the arms of easy populist pushes that promise to compensate for a state considered too often distracted. The Commission and the whole Parliament have a duty to protect workers and with them small and medium-sized enterprises through the most appropriate forms of depreciation and social compensation. It is also clear that, despite the efforts made and the EUR 250 million increase to the Social Fund for Employment and Training, the allocation is insufficient and does not cover the real needs for the year 2013, starting in July this year. The instrument should be further funded, as mentioned, but the criteria for the distribution of resources should also be reviewed, and the actual applications submitted to the INPS territorial structures should also be assessed. Last but not least, it is appropriate to establish uniform criteria for the use of the same shock absorbers by way of derogation, considering the possibility of identifying different financing paths for the earnings, mobility and identification of beneficiaries. These criteria, not being the same in the various regions, lead to situations of obvious disparity that affect - precisely - the most virtuous regions and, consequently, also thousands of workers and workers. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u69	Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u70	Mr President, the decree that we are about to convert into law represents one of the political issues most heard and debated within the majority that supports the Letta Government; therefore, more than a vote of ordinary management of the state budget and territorial tax or an urgent intervention of public health in times of crisis, it is a real attribution of trust to our Premier and his Executive. Although this measure has the sole intention of procrastinating to a later stage a series of fiscal policy decisions that sooner or later this Government will have to take on the primary tax lines to be adopted for Italian citizens, it is appropriate that an assessment of the merits takes place already here. The concept of substantive law on which to focus the spotlight of the debate is always the same: do we believe that the legal institution of property in the classical sense in our legal system needs greater protection and subjective regard to the general interests, and therefore we must leave it free from forced taxation; or do we believe that this is now a principle passed in such a situation of public financial default? Do we think that the basic nucleus in which the Italian family is formed and evolved, the first house, the one where one normally lives, is such an important and indispensable individual asset that it is removed from the state tax levy, in order to allow the citizens to use that "jectito" in consumption; or do we suppose that in a modern Western democracy we cannot assume in the new millennium a tax-immobiliar exemption so guaranteeing? Here again it is the same text of the norm that provides us with valuable elements to have clearer ideas about it. The regulation underlines that it is necessary to adopt measures to support work and strengthen social shock absorbers in order to cope with the continuing crisis situation of the productive sectors; that the condition of unemployment in the country is such that the conditions, at least for this moment, that generated the adoption of the famous law n. 214 of December 2011 are not fulfilled. So the economic assumptions that determined the need to enact that law, which imposed an unprecedented tax burden on the first house in Italy, certainly did not fail. In Italy, apart from the growing hope, the aims of generational innovation and the collective mentality, of some basic legislation in this sense and of the efforts that may be commendable of some sector of Italian politics, it is not even better than a year and a half ago. So, what has changed so that you can derogate from those inspiring principles that seemed to give us no choice but to sacrifice our accounts for the country? The objective observation point has simply changed. The financial problem remains; everyone's perception of the problem, including politics, has changed. It is no longer irrefutable that the rigour and systematic withdrawal is the only vademecum to emerge from the crisis. The political debate has shifted to different positions. Many argue that over-taxation is the prodrome of recession and the antithesis of growth. The downward consumption and therefore the downward production confirm these thesis. Italians have understood that recipes without side effects do not exist; they know that sooner or later the needle of the State will return to sting, a pain perhaps necessary, but that it will have to rationalize and perhaps addressed where it will cause less social damage. It will be up to this Government to identify the care with the least possible side effects, trying to safeguard as much as possible the primary goods, that is those found in society and the Italian family, savers, pensioners, elderly, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, private individuals who have invested in the house the fruits of their work and where they lay substantial part of their future prospects. It remains to be understood where to find the necessary funds to cope with the shortage that would open in case the Government identified tax paths other than taxes on the first houses. And here the path will become very impervious, but we will need an effort in the strategic field of economic and financial policy, which will probably give its results in the medium and long term, which this Executive has the obligation to face, and even in very short times. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Senator Mastrangeli Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u71	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u74	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am only speaking today with discomfort and embarrassment. Yesterday I was not present at the debate that took place on my statements made from the stage of a meeting and I regret them, statements which I have no difficulty in defining as wrong and offensive. President Napolitano has rightly been indignant, and I apologize to him too. I have not been present because, as the Presidency has long been informed, I have been detained in Milan for the political secretariat of the party to which I have the honour to belong. As I have already recognized to the press and to the live interested, taken from the heat of a rally addressed to 1,500 warm militants, I have made a serious mistake, very serious, because I have moved the confrontation from the political plan to the personal one. For this Sunday I made my personal apologies to Minister Kyenge, who immediately accepted them, and for this I am grateful to you, having understood the same my sincere regret, the context in which the episode took place and that phrase, however horrible, did not want to have racial meanings or, worse still, racist. Today I apologise to the Senate and to you, President, for in my words I have made no mention of the image of the institution to which I am honoured to belong. I have, however, followed the debate that took place yesterday in this House from a distance and have listened to a number of requests for my resignation. I believe I am one of the few that the courage to resign has already shown this and I resigned as Minister for a shirt that no one in reality has ever seen in its contents. Only after years has it been discovered, once the Gaddafi regime fell, by the mouth of its ambassador in Italy, that in Libya no one knew the undersigned and its shirt, that the demonstration had been organized against the Gaddafi regime and that the same had placed snipers in the Italian embassy to shoot at the protesters. Calderoli had nothing to do with it: the creator of everything was Gaddafi who, through blackmail on oil and Libyan gas, asked for my resignation. Resignation that I gave. I, who am a convinced independenceist, then demonstrated what the sense of the State and the institutions was, resigning myself without any motion of distrust, for the good of the country that was in a moment of grave difficulty for international tensions. I would like this to be recognized by you and by history. I have already demonstrated the courage to resign, and I would have been prepared to do so even today, if the political forces through whose votes I was elected as Vice President had asked me to do so. I'm a Vice President of opposition and I should have answered only those who voted for me. However, while I did not have a motion of no confidence in a member of the Presidency Council, I would have been prepared to resign if, on the basis of the statements made by the Leaders, there had been a very large majority who had asked me to do so. It wasn't like that. I have done a silly thing: I recognise this, but I would ask that the judgment on me, my third-party and my impartiality with regard to my role as Vice-President be given on the basis of my behaviour or my statements made in this House or when I have the honour of chairing it. On my role as a politician, it is up to the voters, because that is democracy. Minister Kyenge accepted my apology and, as Senator Comrade suggested, I will send you a bouquet of roses. Let the Senate now accept my apologies to my colleagues. On my honor I tell you that I will never again attack a political opponent with offensive words, but I also guarantee you, on my honor, that I will never make discounts to a government that allows and almost encourages, as is happening, the illegal entry of foreigners into our country and that has allowed a child and her mother to be deported, handing them into the hands of the tyrant from whom they are persecuted. "Senators boni viri, senatus mala bestia," said Cicero. I have always given loyalty, work and fairness to the viri boni. Today I ask the Senate for the same loyalty and understanding. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and the Senators Mastrangeli and Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u77	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I have to point out a very urgent case, unfortunately yet another. On June 10, 2013 the multinational company TNT By letter, Traco informed his employees that 854 employees had been put on the move, with the ultimate aim of termination of the contract. With reasons still to be clarified, the company announces that in the next period 2013-2014 the subsidiaries of Avellino, Belluno, Chiavari, Ferrara, Firenze Centro, Massa Carrara, Omegna, Pavia, Pordenone, Potenza, Rieti, Roma Centro, Roma Eur, Rovigo, Savona, Sondrio, Teramo and Terni will be closed. In the program there are then the closures of Aprilia, Asti, Cuneo, Pistoia and Prato. We have received the communication that this week there will be two hearings: 17 at the Ministry of Economic Development and 18 at the Ministry of Labour. I would like to ask the Presidency, if possible, to take action to ensure that the Government comes to report to the House in order to inform the Senate of what control and guarantee measures will be implemented to ensure that none of the 854 employees are left behind. I would like to conclude my speech with an African proverb. In life you will meet three types of people: those who change your life, those who ruin your life and those who become your life. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mastrangeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u80	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, fellow senators, representative of the Government, I would like to draw the attention of the Assembly and especially of the Government to the fact that the authorities responsible are considering the request of Italferr SpA on the extension of the declaration of public utility of the definitive project of the Milan-Genoa high-speed railway line (the so-called third Jupiter pass). The Court of Auditors, with its own determination, has already drawn attention to the fact that litigation proceedings and problems related to the execution of works and the application of the successive regulations on the choice of contractor are far from final. In addition, the parameters, assessment criteria and estimates of freight flows on the basis of which the public utility was at the time considered to be favourable, as well as the subsequent extensions already granted, have appeared at least overestimated from the outset and have never found support in the development of actual data. Furthermore, there has never been a detailed and real cost-benefit assessment of the infrastructure, which makes us suspect that it does not exist. Finally, I would like to point out that in recent months opposition to work by the resident population and local authorities has increased considerably. I have asked the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport a specific question on this subject (inspective act 4-00211) and I have already asked him once to answer it through the Assembly's services. In view of the imminent expiry of the declaration of public utility, I renew my call to respond to my act of inspection union and ask the Presidency to take action on this matter with the Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u83	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I would like to make a very brief request and to point out, in the time of spending review, a waste which I believe should not be reproduced. We were handed today the new card in a very expensive box, with inside a holder that each of us could buy, with a sheath... [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] No, friends of the Five Star Movement, you can't applaud me! You have a place in the College of Senators Quaestors. Your Senator Quest was elected by our vows. You preach what you rocket and you rocket what you preach. We will soon have the Christmas agendas: let's not repeat the same mistakes! SACCONI (PDL). But think about the serious things! MARINO Mauro Maria (PD). It's a bearer! SANTANGELO (M5S). Return the electoral refunds!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-07-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-67.ana.u84	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.56 p.m.
