ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.36 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 15 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (15.40 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u4	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before starting the work of the Assembly, I would like to draw the attention of all of you to the disappearance, on 12 May, of a man very dear to me, a noble protagonist of the recent Sicilian political and trade union history, which has made a decisive contribution to the contemporary historical thought of the island: Francesco Renda. Francesco Renda summed up his life in a few precise words: "Born and raised in the peasant world, I became a participant and leader of his collection." The exceptionality of his figure stems precisely from his being a passionate witness and participant of some of the fundamental moments in the history of my land. He should have been in Portella della Ginestra on May 1, 1947 to speak of latifundism, of just cause for the occupation of the uncultivated lands, but for a fortuitous event (a mechanical failure to the bike caused him to arrive late at Piana degli Albanesi) he arrived when the massacre had now worn out. That day fate wanted to spare him at death. This tragic event did not distract him, however, from political and trade union commitment and support for workers' struggles in a land where the exploitation and repeated violations of the most common standards of prevention and safety continued to be on the agenda. He was, in fact, regional secretary of the miners of the CGIL, then president of the regional office of the National Cooperative League. His militant passion led him to assume for six times the position of deputy to the Sicilian Regional Assembly, first in the lists of the People's Block then in those of the PCI, a political experience that was completed with the election as a member of the Senate, where he was a member of the bicameral commission for regional issues in the 5th legislature. He retired from politics in 1972 to dedicate himself to research and university teaching, to becoming emeritus professor of modern history at the University of Palermo. A choice, this, based on a reading of historical reflection as a point of arrival, the final goal of an experience lived on the field. In 1978 he helped to establish, and then direct it for more than 15 years, the Istituto Gramsci Siciliano, a cultural institution dedicated to the collection, preservation and provision of historical research of documentary materials concerning the history of Sicily, and in particular of the workers' movement, peasant and autonomous island. His historical thought offered a fundamental contribution to the study of the Sicilian peasant movement and to the reconstruction of the reasons and dynamics of a recovery that undermined the roots of the Sicilian latifundo and the baronial power, presuppositions of that social and cultural obscurantism without which the mafia could not exist. It is to these issues, moreover, that Francesco Renda dedicated his major contributions as a scholar. Just think, among others, of his volumes on the Sicilian Fasci, the biography of Salvatore Giuliano, the massacre of Portella della Ginestra and the dynamics of the cold war, the implementation of the agrarian reform, the mafia phenomenon and the popular struggles for liberation from it. His "Political Autobiography," published in 2007, is a valuable testimony to the struggles engaged by the Sicilian popular classes in the laborious process of transformation, according to the expression of Renda himself, of their needs into rights. At the same time, it restores the image of a political man whose action was always guided by a critical spirit and autonomy of judgment. Over the years his reflections have not lost their grip on the present and their relevance. He was among the first to understand that to be effective the contrast to the mafia requires consensus, popular participation, the revolt of consciences and a decided cultural change. It is to pay homage to this very important figure of politician, trade unionist and scholar, that I address, therefore, on behalf of the whole Assembly, a heartfelt greeting to the family members, collaborators and students of Professor Francesco Renda and I invite colleagues to observe, in his memory, a minute of silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u7	MAURO Giovanni (GAL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are commemorating an important Sicilian. I hope I don't have to use other adjectives, because usually the adjectives try to synthesize concepts that for Renda are not limitable in the anguish of an aggressive. We are talking about a man who, loving philosophy, abandons it in favor of history, because this allows him to better combine the theory of studies and the practice of existence. A man who lived Sicilian history as a protagonist and then tried to tell it, but with the love of those who were born in that land, there lived, of those who suffered the contradictions that came from a peasant society - that of the late nineteenth century - that he admirably described: that mafia linked to the campaigns that were the subject of his sociological-historical analysis, going from denunciation and the story of the facts to the attempt of moral and interior involvement of the Sicilian population. We are talking - therefore - about an important Sicilian: important for today's Sicilians and for today's Italy; important also for what he has been able to represent and testify. I have to tell you that my generation is far from the time that Renda lived, yet still today we feel the overall importance of the character, who wanted to tell about Frederick II together with the peasant struggles (it was - I believe - his last effort as a historian). In the same way, he wanted to write the history of Sicily: but writing the history of Sicily requires, on the one hand, the suffering for the problems that are seen afflicting his own land and, on the other, the love and pride of belonging. Francesco Renda wrote the story with these traits and with this love. So, we participate convincedly in the memorial. We are moved to participate, because we have lost an important person, but we know that, with its more than 50 publications, it will continue to live in the memory of Sicilians. I want to remember an anecdote, an interview that he wanted to leave us. He grew up in the climate of the fierce communist religion, but was capable of great openness. He said that "the man now competes very little manually to the production of goods and services, but his life continues to be completely conditioned by the work: nervous shifts, tiring shifts, almost like those peasants who worked "dark to dark," from early morning until evening very late. "And then let us free the workers," he said, "let us enable them to fill their lives with other interests." When someone pointed out that those same things supported her the sociologist Domenico de Masi, the theorist of the social usefulness of creative idleness, replied smiling: I have read de Masi, but my inspiration is not him. It is the utopian philosopher from Calabria Tommaso Campanella who four centuries ago claimed that to ensure the prosperous development of society, four hours of work were enough, leaving the remaining twenty to be devoted to sleep, rest, family, leisure and reading. The professor preached well and scrambled badly, since he four hours rested and twenty hours worked. Now he can rest forever and, with this, we greet him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u10	MUNERATUS (LN-Aut). Mr President, with the death of Francesco Renda one of the most important scholars of the Sicilian peasant movement disappears. Among his works are the one on the Sicilian Fasci and his "History of Sicily," in which there is a particular attention to the peasant movement, for which he fought personally, participating directly in the social and political struggles of the 40s, 50s and 60s. Since 1951, for six legislatures, he has been a Member of the Sicilian Regional Assembly, first with the Block of the People of Togliatti and Nenni, then with the PCI. For a legislature, from November 1967, he was also a senator. Professor of Modern History at the Faculty of Political Science of the University of Palermo, he chaired and organized the Istituto Gramsci Siciliano for 15 years, since the foundation, in 1978, leaving an indelible mark. His activity took place at the turn of two centuries. He escaped the massacre of Portella della Ginestra, organized by Sicilian landowners in accord with the mafia led by Salvatore Giuliano, to suffocate in blood the riots of the workers. In its long existence, it has been able to offer with its political, trade union and cultural commitment an important contribution to the economic and social progress of its land, denouncing the evil relationship that has always existed between a part of the Sicilian political system and the parasitic mafia system. A man, a trade unionist, a politician who has been able to maintain contact with his own people, not forgetting the weaker classes and fighting for the affirmation of workers' rights. An example for all Sicilians, especially for the youngest. The Lega Nord and Autonomie Group expresses its condolences to the family members of Senator Renda and colleagues of the Democratic Party Parliamentary Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PD and PdL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u13	GIANNI (SPI). Mr President, the Civic Chosen Group for Italy is united in heartfelt condolences you expressed in this House for the disappearance of Professor Francesco Renda, former Member of the Sicilian Assembly and Senator of the Republic, in the ranks before the Communist Party and then of the Democratic Party, a political and cultural man, whose long and intense biography offers us today the opportunity to transform this commemoration from a rite of celebration history, as is often the case, to a stimulus for current reflections. The comprehensive description of Renda's works and political actions, which you have done, Mr President, does not allow me to go back to this point. I would like to add two specific aspects that particularly affect those who, like me, have not been lucky enough to know personally the scholar and the politician in reading his thought and translation - which is desumable from the commentary of those who have also celebrated it in these last days, not long after his disappearance - of such thought in political action. In particular, I believe that the commitment of the scholar in the foundation of the Sicilian Gramsci Institute and the exercise of a constant scientific activity, always and in any case related to open and non-doctrinal political action, offer us the starting point to remember still today as the cultural openness towards a renewed sense of pluralism, which to Senator Renda probably came also from his Croatian and Marxian formation at the same time, and the precious reunion of culture with politics, whose divorce has brought devastating consequences also in our country, can be the fruits and the most significant legacy that we can grasp from his teaching. In this sense, we sincerely express our heartfelt condolences to his students, to his family and to all those who remember him these days. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u16	SCOMA (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Members of the Government, the Group of the Party of European Socialists joins in mourning the death of Professor Francesco Renda. He was the protagonist of all the great political and social events of the post-war Sicilian period. Born and raised in the peasant world, participating witness and managing director of his recovery, Francesco Renda from 1943 onwards, and up to our day, has been a protagonist of all the great social events that have made Sicily the laboratory of Italy. Protagonist and witness, then! He was a participant in Sicilian history and the peasant movement, a movement for which he personally fought in an important phase of his life; in fact, he spent a great deal of time telling the history of Sicily, a story that helped to create not only with his numerous writings (about 50 publications), but with his direct participation in the social and political struggles of the 1940s, the 1950s and the 1960s. Illustrated intellectual at the turn of two centuries, he has been able to offer union, political and cultural commitment. There are many publications that recall the various experiences of the most important years of his life, dedicated to the recognition and valorization of strangers, peasants, zolfatari (an ancient Sicilian profession), simple workers who of those actions were the real protagonists and to whom Francesco Renda does not hide his passion, which is passion for the redemption and the overcoming of needs, for freedom. Historical, political, university professor, graduate in philosophy, enrolled in the Communist Party, trade unionist, secretary of the Confederal Chamber of the work of Agrigento, general secretary of the miners of the CGIL, in 1951 he is deputy of the Sicilian Regional Assembly, re-elected five times with the Communist Party. In 1967 he was senator in the fifth legislature; in 1972 he preferred university to politics and returned to his studies. Historic of Marxist formation, one of his most famous and already mentioned works, "The movement of the Sicilian Fascists," written by Renda in 1977, represents one of the crucial nodes of the history of Italy. In it you can see the new and problematic characters that it was taking on in those years, and not only in Italy, the agrarian question; and therefore it can certainly be said that on the whole this peasant movement bears the sign of the historical fractures of the process of national unity. So Renda meets communism and it is the peasants of his country who want him to represent them. And so Renda struggles day by day, case by case. But the policy of needs is seen by Renda in the general framework of the transformation of rights, as a link to the need for law, as a reformist policy, as a cooperative phenomenon, leading to the peaceful peasant revolution that turns into a overwhelming reformist movement. Note how Renda can legitimately be called a professional revolutionary. The location of Renda has always been between second and third level, but it has never had a national outlet. He never even had it in Palermo, a city where he lived and worked, and in his living rooms, having gained no political leadership in the Sicilian capital over the years, but instead an important cultural weight. In the last years of his life we remember Francesco Renda for his wands a few years ago, for the remarks he addressed to famous people of Sicilian politics, pushing them to claim for his land a national role of primary importance. He said: if you move Sicily, you make Italy. I end by remembering a gesture of great generosity by Francesco Renda, who about two years ago left at the Central Library of the Sicilian Region, and therefore to the public enjoyment of students, scholars and free citizens, his historical library, which consists of thousands of volumes, many of the history of the workers' movement, collected during his life as a scholar. [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u19	MINEO (PD). Thank you, President Grasso, for the commemoration you made of Francesco Renda. As a Sicilian, I fully recognize myself in the things you said. I then throw away the intervention that I had prepared, to add - if I will be able - some notation on this personality. By Francesco Renda I can say that he was a lucky man: he lived 70 years in Sicily and for Sicily and in these 70 years he lived two and a half lives (then I will explain why half). The first life was that of the witness and the fighter, which was discussed in this House. I would just like to recall the context of this battle of Francesco Renda. At that time, it was said, the wind of the North, the wind that came from the experience of workers strikes under fascism, and then of the war of national liberation, of the Resistance. Sicily participates with an extraordinary peasant movement and sharecroppers in 1946 and 1947. Francesco Renda is a member of the Chamber of Labour. You said it, President: it arrives late, due to an accident, in Portella della Ginestra, but there begin the bitterness of the communist political militant Francesco Renda, because the peasants know that that is not just a massacre, the peasants know that that is the gift of the mafia to the stabilization of the power of our country. In its own terms, today we could call it the first massacre in the history of Italy. Renda knows this, but he is a leader of the opposition: he is a regional deputy for five successive legislatures, he is committed to giving meaning to the peasant movement and also to anger for what happened in 1947 and 1948. Let us remember, dear senators, that there was not only Portella: there was a series of assassins, country by country, of labor leaders, of sharecroppers, of political leaders of the People's Block, who ended up intimidating and weakening the opposing front. It was a beautiful gift to stabilize the democratic power of our country, but there are those who paid for that gift. I would like to remind everyone that President Napolitano wanted State funerals for Placido Rizzotto, who is only one of the victims, in addition to Portella della Ginestra, of that period. When Renda continues his political activity in Sicily, he does so as a disciplined leader of the Communist Party. He disagrees with Operation Milazzo: it seems to him a transformist operation that, for those who did not remember it, brings to the government of the island also the Communist Party and the Social Movement and breaks the Christian Democrat hegemony that had established itself after Portella and after the victory of 1948. But disciplinedly it goes on. He goes on for a long time in the Sicilian Regional Assembly and goes on in the Senate Chamber; then he gives himself a second life, beautiful, since 1972: he reopens, philosopher, with the history of Sicily, because history allows him to discuss the Sicilian culture. What is the relationship between Sicilian culture and the Mafia, is asked Sciascia? Is there a relationship between Sicilianism and the Mafia? And where does this particular culture of our island come from? You mentioned the Sicilian Fasci, but I would like to talk to you about the history of Sicily. The "History of Sicily" of Renda is to be read: from the tu to the great scholars of the past. One that is very dear to me is Michele Amari, a great Sicilian Arabicist. Renda does not share Michele Amari's point of view, does not think that Arab culture was fundamental to build Sicilian identity, considers it a parenthesis, believes that Sicily has always been autonomous and European. This is the historical-philosophical legacy that Renda gives us. Then he studied the Inquisition period, one of the blackest periods in Sicilian history. I invite you to go to Palazzo Chiaromonte, called Steri, in Palermo and to see the wall paintings of the Arabs and Jews who were persecuted by the obscure Inquisition. There are beautiful pages of Renda on this. Finally, the last half-life, President Grasso, is that of his political autobiography. In the end Francesco Renda, and this is perhaps the legacy of this extraordinary Sicilian, wanted to put together two things: his militancy, until 1972, with so many renunciations, out of a sense of responsibility, out of a sense of discipline, in order to avoid that to insist too much on the Sicilian element, regional and peasant could break the complex balances of a democracy in the world of the Cold War and at the time Cold War, and then his phase of scholar, of historian, of man who takes it with the "cuffarism" (you surely know the personality of which I speak) because it seems to him a re-edition of a transformist form that damages Sicily. These two realities, what has been as a great historian and what has been as a communist militant, wanted to put them together in his autobiography and (who knows it) talking with all of us asked what we thought, because this is our task: we must relive those years and reason again together of the history of Italy. I end with what may be the most important legacy. These aren't distant stories, it's not 1947, it's not the 1958 Milazzo operation, it's not what's happening since 1972, and we're still talking about it, or since 1992 (which you well know, and you know what I'm talking about). Of all this, on this red thread of our history, in which Sicily played such an important role, Renda invited us to reflect by putting together the two things: the historical Marxist inspiration (Renda said: It is still a great idea and subjective militancy in a difficult period. Let's deal with our past. [[Applause from the PD, Misto-SEL and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders, which met this morning, approved the new timetable for work until 30 May. This afternoon the general discussion of the decree-law on health matters will take place, already approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. The vote on the amendments, the deadline for which was set for tonight at 7 p.m., will take place from tomorrow's afternoon sitting. Today's afternoon sitting also provides for the continuation of the debate on motions on genetically modified crops. Therefore, the duration of the sitting may extend beyond the closing date laid down in the previous calendar. Tomorrow afternoon, at 4 p.m., the secret ballot will take place by electronic procedure on the resignation submitted by Senator Ignazio Marino. Next week the Assembly will come back to meet starting from the afternoon session on Tuesday 28 May for the examination of the decree-law concerning environmental emergencies and other urgent measures. Motions will be discussed on Wednesday 29 May on the start of the process of constitutional reform. In the afternoon session of Thursday, May 30, in addition to the possible follow-up to the examination of the decree-law on environmental emergencies, the Lucidi motion on the boards of directors of companies with public participation will also be discussed. In the afternoon, at 4 p.m., with direct television transmission, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy will reply to immediate questions under Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u21	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met this morning with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following programme of the Senate's proceedings for the months of May, June and July 2013: - Drawings of law for the conversion of decrees-laws - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the competent Commission - Budgetary documents - Settlement and Statement of the State's budget - Internal budget and statement of the Senate - Documents defined by the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities - Motions - Interrogations and questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u22	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new timetable for work until 30 May 2013. [[Tuesday, May 21 pom. h. 15,30 - Drawing of law n. 298-B - Decree-Law n. 24, laying down urgent health provisions (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 25 May) - Following the discussion of motions on genetically modified crops - Vote on resignation submitted by Senator Ignazio Marino (Vote by secret ballot by electronic procedure) (Wednesday 22, 16) Wednesday 22 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16 Thursday 23 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 23 May pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to bill No 298-B (Decree-Law No 24 on urgent health provisions) should be tabled no later than 7 p.m. on Tuesday 21 May. [[Tuesday, May 28 pom. h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 576 - Decree-Law n. 43, environmental emergencies and other urgent measures (Presented to the Senate - expires on 25 June 2013) Wednesday 29 May (times to be defined) - Discussion of motions relating to the start of the path of constitutional reforms Thursday 30 May ant. h. 9,30 - Possible follow-up of bill n. 576 - Decree-Law n. 43, environmental emergencies and other urgent measures (Presented to the Senate - expires on 25 June 2013) - Motion n. 33, Lucidi, on the boards of directors of companies with public participation Thursday 30 May pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies]] Amendments to bill No 576 (Law No 43, environmental emergencies and other urgent measures) should be tabled by 7 p.m. on Thursday 23 May. Time distribution for discussion of draft law n. 298-B (Decree-Law n. 24, laying down urgent health provisions) (6 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 45' Government 45' Votes 1 h. Groups 3 hours and 30 minutes, of which: PD 49' PdL 43' M5S 31' SCp 20' LN-Aut 18' LAL 16' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 16' Mixed 16' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 576 (Decree-Law No 43, environmental emergencies and other urgent measures) (8 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 10' PdL 1 h. 02' M5S 44' SCp 29' LN-Aut 26' GAL 23' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI 23' Mixed 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u23	The next item is the debate on draft law No 298-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. I would also like to point out that the timing has been divided between the various groups. The rapporteur, Senator De Biasi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. (16.11 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u24	Mr President, as we know, the measure comes to the Senate at second reading and let me first of all thank the special Commission very much for the work produced at first reading, which has been very important and carried out under conditions that are obviously not simple, not yet in a phase of complete start-up. In any case, the work carried out by the Senate at first reading was very important because it allowed the continuation of experimentation and allowed to foresee some initial forms of control. The House of Deputies, which I also thank for the great work done in a short time, has further specified some not entirely clear elements of the original decree from which our debate started. In essence, it has highlighted two very important points, such as testing consistent with the current rules, and therefore under the aegis of the Higher Institute of Health, and monitoring the progress of the results of the experiment with mesenchymal stem cells. It is clear that many are the themes that are still open. On the other hand, we think in the context of a field where certainties are still to be verified; we would also need a method of working for other institutions, with a much stronger capacity for relations between Parliament, the Government and the Ministry of Health. Today we have had the pleasure of carrying out work in the Commission Chamber with the Minister, who I believe can start a new phase of cooperation, which actually takes into account the main aspects of care. I say immediately that with the decree under consideration we are to answer... (Brusio). Excuse me, Mr President, I understand that we are in the middle of a general debate. I understand colleagues, but it is difficult to intervene with a certain amount of confusion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Ladies and gentlemen, we allow the rapporteur to make her speech. De Biasi, rapporteur. I was saying that the open themes are very many; the matter is very complex: it has to do with the notion of care and therefore with different subjects. The first subject is the patient, to whom we must guarantee maximum reliability and maximum safety of care, particularly in public facilities. The second subject is the public, therefore the National Health Service and the obligation on its part to assume a very important responsibility, that of verifying the monitoring and validity of the care or experimentation, as in this case. The third - let me say this, because the great absence of health discussions remains - is the world of scientific research in our country in this field. In fact, the international and national scientific community has made considerable observations, to which it was right to respond, and with the decree under examination we begin to respond. Today we are discussing the parts of the decree that have been amended with respect to the version already approved by the Senate. Article 1 of the Decree-Law brings some novelties and additions to the discipline on the completion of the process of overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals. Compared to the text approved by the Senate, the Chamber has first deleted, in paragraph 1, the deadline of 31 March 2014. This term, in the text introduced by the Senate, concerned the discharge of all persons for whom the judicial authority has already excluded or excludes the existence of social danger, with an obligation for the local health companies to take charge within individual therapeutic-rehabilitative projects guaranteeing the right to care and social reintegration. The deletion of the term was laid down as a condition by the First Chamber Commission on the basis of the consideration that the discharge, in the cases in question, must in any case be immediate, in line with the constitutional jurisprudence in the matter of psychiatric judicial hospitals. The completion of the process of overcoming judicial psychiatric hospitals by 1 April 2014 remains firm. Second, the Chamber abolished the first period of article 1, paragraph 2, of the decree-law, which provided that the Minister of Health, by May 31, 2013, would report to the competent parliamentary committees on the interventions covered by the programs presented by the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. These programmes must be submitted by 15 May 2013 and concern the implementation of new structures, or the conversion of existing ones, which, by the aforementioned deadline of 1 April 2014, must completely replace judicial psychiatric hospitals, the increase in therapeutic-rehabilitative pathways and the strengthening of mental health services. The program must be approved by decree of the Minister of Health; decree that simultaneously arranges the allocation of resources for the realization of the structures. Moreover, by 30 November 2013 - so the House has reworded the term - the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice must communicate to the competent parliamentary committees the state of implementation of regional programmes, in particular, the degree of effective taking care of the patients by the mental health departments and the consequent start of programs of care and social reintegration. In this regard, I want to say that the decree on our examination must be converted quickly because we cannot allow the destruction of civilizations that is being accomplished by the procrastination of the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals. We have here heard Senator Marino, who has told the experience of the Commission of inquiry precisely on these structures emphasizing the unavoidable need to close them, except, of course, that there will be a problem as big as a house: in fact, not only will the Regions have to provide for the preparation of alternative structures, but more generally - let me say - the issue of psychiatric judicial hospitals is related to the much wider one of mental health and the state of poor health of the territorial services that deal with this, be they of a hospital or territorial type. The two elements must then go together and I think that we should take the opportunity for the Regions to present integrated plans, that is, that they can hold together the whole issue of mental health, also because these people who leave psychiatric hospitals cannot be abandoned or even less locked up in similar structures, thus repeating the initial error. This year marks the anniversary of the so-called Basaglia law and I think it is important for Parliament to approve this rule of civilization quickly, not least because Italy's line has been repeatedly stigmatized by the European Union, to the point of talking about the crime of torture. I therefore think that this is the way forward, and it must see a great deal of involvement and agreement between the Ministry and the Regions, exactly as the Minister said she wanted to do. The continuous growth, not only of media pressure but of what is called the pain of the soul, which is therefore not necessarily attributable to clinical pathologies nor necessarily solved in health structures, is the theme of today, is the dramatic theme that we live day after day: we read it in the newspapers, we know people in crisis, people who live states of anxiety that risk becoming pathological. I therefore believe that one of the first works of this Senate must go in this direction, because responding to the crisis also means dealing with mental health, which is the physical and mental well-being of Italian citizens. The second part of the decree, as I said at the beginning, concerns the research on mesenchymal stem cells operated by the Stamina Foundation ONLUS at the reunited Hospitals in Brescia, then in a public structure. Paragraphs 2 et seq. of Article 2 of the Decree-Law contain certain rules on the use of advanced therapy medicinal products based on mesenchymal stem cells (paragraph 1 of the same Article 2 was deleted by the Senate during the first reading examination). The Chamber first amended paragraph 2 of Article 2. This paragraph contains a transitional rule, which allows public structures, where, before the date of entry into force of this decree, they have in any case begun treatments on individual patients with advanced therapy medicinal products based on mesenchymal stem cells, the completion - under the responsibility of the prescriber - of the treatments themselves, provided that the medicinal products have been processed in laboratories of public structures and in accordance with procedures suitable for the processing and storage of cells and tissues. In the latter regard, the Chamber has abolished the possibility that, for the purposes under consideration, compliance with such procedures would be achieved within sixty days of the entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree. With reference to the same article 2, the Chamber replaced with a single paragraph 2-a the paragraphs 2-a to 2-c inserted by the Senate and related to further hypotheses, always of transitory nature, of the use of medicinal products for advanced therapies based on mesenchymal stem cells. In the reworded version from the Chamber it is expected that, in this regard, the Ministry of Health, using the Italian Agency of the drug and the National Center transplants, promotes the conduct of a clinical trial, coordinated by the Higher Institute of Health and related exclusively to mesenchymal stem cells already employed in the treatments referred to in paragraph 2, to be completed within eighteen months - starting from 1 July 2013 - and conducted also as a derogation to the current discipline on the therapeutic uses of medicinal products subjected to clinical trial. With regard to the general requirements and conditions relating to clinical trials of medicinal products, the rule refers instead to the provisions, as compatible, of the decree of the Minister of Health 17 December 2004. In any event, it is a condition that the same medicinal products, with regard to patient safety, are prepared in accordance with the guidelines referred to in Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 1394/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 November 2007. In order to ensure the repeatability of the therapies in question, the modalities of preparation are made available to the Italian Agency of the drug and the Higher Institute of Health; the latter provides a multidisciplinary service of high specialisation for the patients involved. In accordance with the procedures laid down in paragraph 2-a, a maximum amount of EUR 1 million for 2013 and EUR 2 million for 2014, from the resources of the National Health Fund, shall be allocated to the same trial. The Higher Institute of Health and the Italian Agency of the drug treat the evaluation of the experimentation. Other rules on control, evaluation and monitoring, also relating to the trials already in place referred to in paragraph 2, are laid down by the following paragraphs 4 and 4-a, as already approved by the Senate. In these last paragraphs the Chamber has made two coordination changes. The following paragraph 4-b, introduced by the Chamber, provides for the establishment, at the Ministry of Health, of an Observatory on advanced therapies with mesenchymal stem cells, with advisory tasks, proposals, monitoring and guaranteeing transparency of information and procedures. The Observatory is chaired by the Minister himself or his delegate and is composed of experts and representatives of interested associations. The second and third periods of the paragraph shall include, with regard to the new body, clauses on the invariance of public finance charges. I would like to make a few specific comments on this new wording, which has involved the Commission in a very serious debate, and I think it is very detailed and advanced, to the extent that it is decided, in agreement with the Minister, to start a survey of the state of research and the actual possibilities of these difficult situations. I therefore think that the first important element is that in public structures research and experimentation must be as safe as possible: carried out at the highest level of safety, with protocols and procedures of maximum transparency. To be submitted to the Italian Agency of the drug and to the Higher Institute of Health is, from this point of view, a guarantee not only for the patient, but for the same Stamina. It must be said that there is a general uncertainty concerning this protocol, which is not made public and which has not been patented; this requires, all the more, that there be a trial that has a certain time and is financed, also in order to respond to the desire for hope of many families, but that in any case and in any case it remains in the context of the use of advanced therapy medicines prepared on a non-repetitive basis and the therapeutic use of medicinal products undergoing clinical trials. This, of course, has legal, clinical and scientific implications; but the protection of health and the guarantee of access to care in safety conditions is very important, just like scientific evidence, if you want to move from experimentation to treatment. At present, there is no certainty that the research on mesenchymal stem cells can actually help to cure certain diseases of a degenerative character: not of all diseases, because the mesenchymal stem cell is obviously not comparable to the original totipotent cell, but it is a cell that is somehow already directed towards the formation of cartilage and bone tissue, so it already has its own specificity. Therefore, all the more so, restricting the scope and type of care and, above all, obliging transparency in protocols becomes a fundamental element in validating what could also be a very important cure, but which, at the present time, is not so, because there are no requirements with respect to national law, the European order and not even with respect to American law (so much so as to have a complete picture of the whole matter). The three criteria (quality, safety of treatment and transparency) are then and must be the basis of the work. In fact, the method of validation is that contained in the European standards of good manufacturing, the so-called GMP (Good manufacturing practice), meaning exactly that the procedure of scientific evaluation lies in the criteria of quality, safety and efficacy of the products. There is therefore one element of production that is GMP, the European standards of good manufacturing, but there is also one problem that we must consider in the perspective: the GMP in Europe is being examined by the Industry section, while I believe that it should be reported at least in a more systematic relationship with the Health Hive. It is very complicated and improper to define these compassionate cares; I think it is correct to reason in terms of clinical experimentation, precisely to signal the opening of an alternative always possible in the age of bioethics and, as the Minister says, of biopolitics, especially in a country very backward in this field that records a deficit of common sense of a very strong scientific character. Therefore we must respond - and with this decree we respond - to the first criterion, that of the right of the patient and of families to a hope and, at the same time, to the need for control over the effectiveness and scientificity of care. We owe this first of all to patients, to the National Service in the second place and, finally, to the scientific community, which really deserves much more than it has had to date. [[Applause from the groupsPD, PdL and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u25	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today the Senate Assembly is examining the conversion of a decree-law which deals with two very different issues but both of considerable importance. First, it is expected to extend by one year, and then to 1 April 2014, the effective closure of judicial psychiatric hospitals, the so-called OPGs. The extension is necessary - and the Government itself makes this clear in the introductory report - for the context of delay in the implementation of acts of State competence. The Constitutional Court has intervened on this subject several times, stressing the need to overcome the system of security measures applied to the mentally ill and calling for the rethinking of the same institution of the psychiatric hospital in judgment No 228 of 1999. The inertia with which the legislator has dealt with this very sensitive issue has accelerated with the approval of the report on the conditions of life and care within psychiatric judicial hospitals, approved in July 2011 by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the effectiveness and efficiency of the National Health Service. A picture emerges as worrying as it could be expected, a situation in fact and in law which in many respects is completely incompatible with the dictates of the Constitution: serious and unacceptable structural and sanitary deficiencies, with a completely assimilable structure to the prison or the manicomial institution, supported by a health staff often lacking from the numerical point of view of the clinical-therapeutic needs of the particular type of patients entrusted to this kind of institution. There is also evidence of inadequate clinical practices and in some cases detrimental to the dignity of the person, both as regards mechanical actions and for pharmacological devices of improper use with respect to the therapeutic purpose of the same. We can only hope that the attention will always remain high and, above all, that the Regions will give a rapid and concrete implementation to the programs for the realization of the health structures in which to hospitalize the people currently interned in the OPGs and that the Government seriously considers the obligations of information to Parliament about the actual and total take charge of the patients and the start of the programs of care and social reintegration. On the other hand, Article 2 aims to regulate the use of advanced therapy medicinal products prepared on a non-repetitive basis and the therapeutic use of medicinal products undergoing clinical trials. A transitional rule is therefore envisaged which, by way of derogation from the current legislation, allows public structures where treatment with mesenchymal stem cell medicinal products has been initiated to continue treatment, provided that they comply with Legislative Decree No 191 of 2007 on the definition of quality and safety standards for the donation, supply, control, processing, storage, storage and distribution of human tissues and cells. It is also expected that the Ministry of Health, in collaboration with the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA) and the National Center for Transplants, will promote the conduct of a clinical trial on these medicines, coordinated with the Higher Institute of Health, to be completed within 18 months from 1 July 2013. For the implementation of the experimentation, the Interministerial Committee for Economic Programming is binding a share of one million euros of the National Health Fund for 2013 and 2 million euros for 2014, an appropriation on which we undertake to monitor and to ask for account both for distribution in the different testing centres, and for effective use. It is useful in this respect that the amendment made to the Chamber, which states that the members of the Observatory on Advanced Stem Cell Treatments established at the Ministry of Health shall not be paid tokens, compensations, reimbursements or other amounts denominated in any case. The operation of the Observatory is carried out within the human, financial and instrumental resources available to existing legislation and, in any case, without new or increased burdens for public finance. Never as in a matter such as the one we are dealing with is it necessary to have a serious attitude and at the same time free from prejudices. That is why, as a Group, we have committed our colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies to involve in our reflection as many actors as possible in studying and deepening with great interest the hearings held within the Chamber's Social Affairs Committee and organizing informal meetings, aware that decisions of this magnitude cannot be separated from a lucid and responsible analysis. The nature of the measure that we are examining and the approach of the final deadline for the conversion of the decree-law have unfortunately limited the timing of the discussion. The subject deserves perhaps to be more in-depth by providing for more extensive interventions, with the aim of creating a framework of reference, a model that helps us to support the intellectual vivacity that Italian research has always had and which is now gradually losing. We all know that it has not been easy to discuss the feasibility and effectiveness of an experiment forced into the regulatory framework proposed by the Decree-Law. We as 5 Star Movement have listened to representatives of the Italian Agency for Drugs, the Higher Institute of Health, Professor Vannoni and Professor Andolina. We have worked according to the principle of transparency that distinguishes us (and I must say that there has been considerable cooperation with the other political groups), acting with the knowledge of all the tools necessary for an objective assessment in such a sensitive matter. Stem cells are described by everyone as a drug. Personally, I think that stem cells are not a drug, they are just cells; they are considered a drug at the time of testing and the regulations governing the trial consider them to be in all respects. In fact, Legislative Decree No 219 of 24 April 2006 calls into question that these cells are real drugs, especially when it states:. For medicinal products for somatic cell gene therapies, the conventional requirements contained in Module 4 for non-clinical trials of medicinal products may not always be adequate, due to the unique and different structural and biological properties of the products in question (...). In point 3.2, module 5 of Annex I to the same decree, the following is added: The efficacy of advanced therapy medicinal products should be demonstrated as shown in Module 5. However, conventional clinical trials may not be carried out for certain products and therapeutic indications. In practice, the legislator states that cells have unique characteristics that differentiate them from molecules; in this we can see a high degree of specificity of both species and subject, also considering any immunological barriers. In addition, trying to use the same standard procedures that are used for molecules when using cells can be difficult. We can therefore say that in these six years we would have to regulate the production and testing of stem cells with greater attention, inasmuch as they are subject to the definition of drugs also means that these must be controlled by structures such as AIFA, which regulate their production, testing and marketing. Without a doubt, the citizen felt this forced force and this created a distrust between patients and institutions. At this point, it is essential to put transparency, security and honesty first by both those who carry out the Stamina method and by the consultants who will have to develop the evaluation protocols. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u27	Senator Silvestro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u28	Mr President, Senators, Senators, I am referring to the obvious conversion into law of the decree-law that we are talking about and specifically to Article 1 of the decree itself, which concerns psychiatric judicial hospitals. Undoubtedly, the time we have had to reflect and reason on the entire decree and on the two parts, which are fundamental and important, but very distant from each other, has not allowed us to make the in-depth discussions and considerations that we would all have liked; however, we agree on some aspects of important importance, which have already been expressed in a qualified manner by the rapporteur and also recalled by the previous colleague. Basically we agree that the abolition of the term for the closure of judicial psychiatric hospitals provided for by the Chamber is positive: undoubtedly, in fact, those who are hospitalized or detained in these places need a path of care and care other than that that can be guaranteed in such structures, also because we know that most of the people admitted and held there have significant health problems, are suffering from chronic-degenerative pathologies or have an age such as to require, precisely because of the situation in which they are located and for the logistic context in which they are inserted, an approach of routes and welfare processes that, in those structures and with that staff, can hardly be guaranteed. This is certainly not out of bad will, but - as I said before - for logistics, for the organizational and structural approach and above all because, even if it is endowed with great goodwill, the staff involved in the assistance in those places does not have the qualification, the skills and the preparation necessary and adequate to give answer to these people. Consequently, removing the time limit and proceeding as early as possible in the intended direction is a positive factor. The problem remains, however, to ensure that the Regions are able to equip themselves in related times with the exit from these places of the persons hospitalized and held there, so that what is foreseen by the decree that we are converting does not remain dead letter but finds a concretization as the Regions will have to put into effect. From this point of view, I welcome the statement made by the Minister, who today honoured us with her presence in the Health Commission, when she pointed out that she was interested in a careful review and evaluation of how the conversions of existing structures or the activation of new structures to welcome these people will proceed, and equally important attention should be paid to ensuring that the collection and rehabilitation programmes are not only presented in good time, but also made known to all of us, so that we can verify and evaluate them. Above all, the Minister has undertaken to work within the framework of cognitive investigations to ensure that the evolution of the process and the ways in which the regions are working to achieve the objectives in question can be systematically assessed. There is another very important point that I would like to stress and on which the Minister has also taken great care: I am referring to the issue of assistance staff. In order to be able to take charge and follow the hospitalized prisoners from a welfare point of view, there is a need for ad hoc staff with rehabilitation, care and clinical skills. Funds are provided, not only for the implementation, conversion and definition of logistics structures, but also for the inclusion of the human resources needed to ensure this type of journey. From this point of view, careful evaluation and verification of the route will be very important, also because we know that, currently, in these places, the staff dedicated to clinical care and supervision is very limited. Therefore, there will be a need for a very timely and structured commitment and effort from this point of view. For these reasons, we hope that we will proceed in the most qualified manner possible and with times that are systematically verified and, above all, that the Minister and the Government will be willing to give an account of how this process is developing and carrying out, which, as was said, is important and absolutely highlighting a decision of civilization. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bianco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u30	Mr President, I will be very brief and I will not use all the time at my disposal. I believe that so many considerations of context to this measure are perhaps useless, because we are examining a measure at third reading: we have long discussed in the various fora and we have addressed all the critical issues. We say, with great sobriety, that Article 1 extends the terms of a forecast that was still civilization (Article 1 extends, in fact, the deadlines for the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals). Article 2 seeks instead to remedy a situation, a bit chaotic and questionable, that had come to be created in the field of therapies with, in this case, mesenchymal stem cells. All the considerations have already been made and I would like to confine myself to two, which partly bounce back on Parliament and future behaviour. The first point concerns psychiatric hospitals. Undoubtedly, the postponement of the terms, which were also peremptive in the 2011 law, represents a further indicator of the difficulty of the National Health Service to cope, as we have said, with a due act. Judicial psychiatric hospitals are civil and moral terminals, also according to the report we have heard and approved in this House. So, beyond this, let's take charge of this signal: many Regions have been in difficulty and have not been able to provide for the disposal of psychiatric judicial hospitals, facing in a coherent and effective way - said Senator Silvestro - their overcoming, which represents a work of absolute civilization and morality. As far as the problem of Stamina is concerned, there is something that bounces in here, but that bounces everywhere, that is the great difficulty that we cyclically face in establishing a balance between hopes and evidence: this is not the first time that this happens and it will not be the last. I believe that precisely in the balance between the legitimate hopes of people and the evidences (medicine does not produce truth, but medicine and research, when it is good, produce evidence: it has a scientific method and for this reason it is called scientific medicine), precisely in this balance necessary to withstand the National Universalist Health Service, solidarity and fairness lies the great difficulty. I believe that the decree-law under consideration gives adequate answers in the emerging climate in which it had to be exercised, because we were faced with two emerging situations. I believe that the answers that are offered - I am referring in particular to Article 2 of the Decree-Law - are the only answers and go in the sense of saying: see that the hopes of few or many who are, become certainties for all and become payable for all, because there is no freedom of care that does not provide for the effectiveness and safety of care on the other hand. If then we are in our context, that of our National Health Service, so that this is really of everyone and is payable by everyone, we need this great process of validation and research, which is not far from hope: the research is in fact moving on hopes and has no other motivations (at least this applies to the research that we should help and support). From this point of view, the prospect of funding a research on mesenchymal stem cells, as is done in the decree-law, seems useful. That's all I wanted to say, Mr. President. [[Applause from PD and M5S groups and Senators Dalla Zuanna and Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u31	She is registered to speak Senator Simeoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u32	Mr President, Minister, fellow senators and senators, in the last parliamentary term this branch of Parliament has authorised the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on the effectiveness and efficiency of the National Health Service. This Commission, after having directly established, also by inspection, the conditions of hospitals, on the subject of judicial psychiatric hospitals (PDGs) has drawn up a final report. Well, from the reading of this report, we consider it more appropriate to define such structures, more simply, prisons. The description of some OPGs contained in the report, in particular that of Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto, in addition to stirring up a movement of indignation in us, makes us doubt that we still live in a civilized country. From those pages it can be seen that the guests are kept, inside these prison-like structures - with bars with doors and windows - overcrowded in an inhuman way and in disastrous hygienic conditions, both of the accommodations and of the patients themselves. But the worst thing is that in those structures there is a total lack of recovery activity of the subjects, who are forced physically and through psychopharmaceuticals, in total violation both of the right to health recognized by our Constitution, in Article 32, and of the principle of reeducation of the penalty that inspires our penal system. Finally, but not least, in that report, there is a strong shortage of specialist medical staff within the facilities. Often there are only one doctor and two nurses, faced with hundreds of patients and the absence of figures such as psychiatrists or psychologists, while the prison guards abound. Well, let me say that in 20 years of work in psychiatry I have learned to distinguish a hospital structure from a prison structure. And from the work I have done in public health, in SPDC departments (diagnosis and treatment psychiatric services), I can assure you that in structures such as psychiatric hospitals, mental patients are destined for a miserable end, without any prospect of recovery. In the face of this terrible situation, which still presents and presents obvious violations of human rights, our Parliament has approved a law, No. 9 of 2012, in which it is established that the OPGs are closed, that the patients declared non-dangerous are discharged and that the remaining ones are transferred to ad hoc structures, identified by the Regions on the basis of certain criteria. However, this law only partially transposes the recommendations made by the Special Committee of Inquiry, which called for the resolution of the problem, which was left unresolved by Law No 180 of 1978 on the reform of Italian psychiatry, in the area of treatment and protection of the patient who committed the crime. No measures have been introduced on the therapies to be taken for the recovery and treatment of forced patients; no mention has been made of the strengthening of medical staff and specialists in psychiatry; no real rule that can ensure that the new structures that will be used at regional level do not turn into mini-OPG, in addition to private management, where the same squalid and inhuman scenario already described in the heavy pages of the report of the Special Committee of Inquiry will be repeated. We of the 5 Star Movement, while recognizing that the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals and the passage of patients who commit crimes to more suitable structures, believe that it is equally necessary to implement this project in order to ensure a treatment of treatment and rehabilitation of psychiatric patients, and not merely detention; and at the same time guarantee the safety of the structures and staff that will have to host them. To this end, we of the 5 Star Movement, in addition to follow and verify that the Regions implement the provisions of Law No. 9 of 2012, we will promote a proposal of law that binds the Regions to the priority use of disused hospital structures, already existing on the territory, and provides that the Regions assign to the directions of the DSM (Departments of mental health) territorial to verify the current psychic state of the patients-detainees, so that those that can be rehabilitated are placed in family homes on the territory, followed by a competent staff, while the socially dangerous patients are inserted in adequate supervised structures, in which patients can be monitored by psychiatric teams. We respect human rights; we no longer lager. We reiterate that it would be a disaster if the resources made available by the State under Law No 9 of 2012 were only used to finance new photocopier structures, perhaps made by private individuals and not to equip Italy with a virtuous system of rehabilitation and safety at DSM State. For this reason, we will continue to urge the Government and the Regions in this direction, so that we never again have to read shameful pages, such as those that have been written in the report of the Special Committee of Inquiry of the previous legislature. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u33	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u34	Mr President, Senators, Senators, Minister, during our first debate on this decree-law, in April, we denounced the delay with which politics took on such delicate and so different issues, but both of which were of great suffering. Today, a few days after the expiry of the decree, I would say that there are no words for this further delay and almost approval in very short times. Article 2 of the decree, for the strong media exposure, as has been said in previous interventions, for the involvement of so many children and the drama of their families, has placed to us all the theme of seeking the balance between what is known and well consolidated and what must be experienced daring, but always in compliance with the requirements of scientificity, protecting patients, especially if minor, and their families from any bieco attempt to speculate on human suffering. The mediation point that the House's colleagues have identified, we can consider it an opportunity to relaunch our work. However, we must be well aware that this decree solves some problems, but it opens up many more. Let us hope, for example, that we are not in fact changing the research protocols, opening up the derogations. And sooner or later this Parliament will have to address once and for all the issue of how we find real and additional resources, without subtracting them from other budget chapters, for scientific research. Today our researchers work between a thousand difficulties, lack of resources, precarious contracts, continuous pursuit towards the research lines, and yet Italian research reaches points of excellence. Investing resources means keeping our researchers in Italy, very popular abroad, for new sectors and research lines that, as this case shows, we need so much. The case of Stamina therefore obliges us to find a proper relationship between research and scientific evidence - without risking to fall into a scientific rigorism - and the freedom of every citizen to choose how to treat himself, without neglecting the link between ethics, generosity and humanity of medicine. The issue we should be discussing is the relationship between freedom of care and the right to health. Finally, we are very concerned about this decision to devote as much as EUR 3 million to this research, subtracting it from the National Health Fund, with the certainty that it will take away fundamental resources - as we have learned in the Commission from the Minister - from the regions, which in recent years have already had to undergo very hard cuts first from the Berlusconi Government and then from the Monti Government. We welcome the President of the Commission's call to keep this research separate from that on stem cells, but we express a great deal of concern that media pressure does not continue to induce us to identify lines of research, which for us must always be free, public and not conditioned by private suffering and dramas, all too often used by third parties for purposes that are not always noble. With the definitive approval of this decree, we open - we hope - the final phase of the life of psychiatric judicial hospitals (OPG). The terms set out in the decree we discussed in April have obviously slipped and we learn with great concern that, as the Minister has told us in the Commission, not all the regions have presented the programmes necessary for the emptying and closing of the OPGs, averting the use of the police station. We are sure that this is a shift in time linked to the uncertainty of the fate of the decree: never would the Regions run the risk of not following directly the stage of the delicate passage to the Health Service of the inmates in OPG! However, while we are in the midst of delays, we ask the Government to follow this stage carefully. We would like to be reassured that these are real health care projects; we would like to be sure that the new structures that the regions are working on do not turn out to be new small OPGs. If so, we express our very strong dissent and concern. The treatment of patients by mental health departments must be clearly marked by programmes of social care and reintegration. If that were not the case, we would be faced with a real political and moral failure, because of an extension we condemn the inmates to a white life sentence, in clear contradiction of our Constitution, which states that under no circumstances can the law violate the limits imposed by respect for the human person. We have already said this in April: for us the extension is a shame, a real shame. In order to remedy this series of failure to exercise responsibilities and failures, including in politics, we will all have to follow this stage carefully. We owe it to the many inmates in OPG who have, yes, taken their penalties, without which we have helped them: indeed, we have further marginalized them, often without any possibility of reintegration. The closure of the OPGs, however, is only a first step. The real issue, which I would like to share with my colleagues in the Commission on Justice, is in fact the amendment of the penal code and the rules that are at the basis of the OPGs. Finally, we consider it important that, between the lines of work and intervention of this Parliament and the Health Commission, attention be paid to mental health and services for the territories, especially at this stage of the major economic crisis, which is causing hardship and difficulties in the lives of so many citizens, who suddenly find themselves forced to cope with the loss of work and a life of poverty. But we hope that on this subject we can speak better, at different times, without confusing the closure of the OPGs, which is an act of civilization, with the need to adapt our national health system to social changes and the effects on public health. By confusing these two plans, we would wrong all of us and the country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups and the Senators Airola and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u36	Mr President, I take the floor some time away from the first passage to the Senate of the decree-law to express on the one hand the satisfaction for the conclusion of this iter, on the other also a certain bitterness for the changes that the decree has undergone in the passage to the House. I had also spoken during the first debate and expressed my satisfaction at the fact that hope had been given back to those who had lost it (I am of course talking about advanced stem cell therapies). This gave some hope to those who unfortunately did not have a cure to be able to counter rare but serious diseases. Today the decree-law returns to the modified Senate and I note that, positively, it is expected the experimentation, moreover centered on the Higher Institute of Health and the Italian Agency of the drug, therefore with all the crisms of the officiality and the guarantees that the public is able to offer. I also note that specific appropriations are being adopted, so that experimentation will be done and I am sure that it will also be done well, with all the guarantees that science requires. On the other hand, we note that care is only allowed to those who have already begun it before the entry into force of the decree-law, so we exclude in fact some patients who had begun treatment or who still hoped to be able to start them, and unfortunately the courts are back in the field again, because so far the families have been forced to resort to the courts in order to be recognized the right to carry out these treatments and now they will have to resort again to justice, and it is clear to all that the anomaly that it is the courts that have to decide when it is possible to do a cure, restoring in fact the equal right to health for all. I must say that in our land there have been special cases that have affected the common sensitivity, of families that, in order to be able to give their children the necessary care, have also involved the entire community, there has been an uprising of universal solidarity and many have been the initiatives, there has really been a great mobilization, even at the hearing at the court. Moreover, the cases that have occurred in Trentino have so far also received full recognition from the court and therefore have actually solved the problem, because on order of the court you will be able to access these treatments. However, the bitterness remains that a family should have the right to try to care for their children and not for the health structures that are the ones competent to decide when care is to be done. I realize that we are in the presence of unsafe treatments, not yet tested and that opinions are therefore divergent, but we must also realize that these are situations that are at the limit, which are really difficult and therefore it is obvious that the human aspect is also important. I note, however, that at least we begin the experimentation in a serious way, that however those who have already begun the treatment can continue them, that the court will probably continue to give the possibility to those who ask him to access also these advanced cares, in the hope that the sensitivity of this Government is different from that of the previous Government: I must say that the previous Minister has demonstrated, in relation to the association of the family, a rather unusual insensitivity and the families, therefore, have felt abandoned by the public body and its structure. It seems to me that the attitude of the new Government is of greater sensitivity and understanding to situations that are actually very serious and difficult to support. I hope that the decree-law to our examination, when it will be converted into law (and I believe that today is the good time, before the terms expire), will however, at least in part, give hope to the families for the trial to be started in a really serious and rigorous way, even with the necessary economic resources. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Senators, the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 24 of 25 March 2013 laying down urgent health provisions does not represent a mere and algid legislative procedure. It is narration of sufferings and hopes, hardships and fragility, regulatory complexity and ordinances of judges of labour, conjugation and balance between law, science and ethics. I would like to argue and pay particular attention to what is referred to in Rule 2, on the understanding that a few amendments have been made to Rule 1 at second reading to the House of Deputies. Precisely with regard to Article 2 we can say that it represents a problematic and complicated conjugation in the context of a complex balance between expectations resulting from treatments - for diseases of particular gravity - not yet validated by the scientific community, and although arranged by orders of some courts; respect of the current legislation, and also transitional derogation to the same, in order to be able to give an adequate response to the emergency; compliance with the right to health and transparency of the procedures, and also indeterminateness of the same from the technical-laboratoristic point of view and the consequent results; not least, insufficient resources, and also total allocation of 3 million euros, for the years 2013 and 2014, from the National Health Fund, for the implementation of the experimentation. As can be seen, they are all contradictory and conflicting positions. The legislator is responsible for the task, certainly not easy (I would say even ungrateful, as his custom), of balancing and proposing a solution of synthesis and, if possible, sharing. Therefore, I want to bring to your attention some reflections, whose arguments may further point to the need to balance so many and important interests and/or conflicting principles and values. In the Italian legal system, health and equality are mainly confronted with freedom of care. If the therapeutic choice is a projection of the constitutional protection of personal freedom, law and science must necessarily interact, outlining the perimeters of a space intended to be filled with content. Often the judges of merit are faced with the request for inclusion of therapies, in addition to those dispensed by the National Health Service. These requests are based on freedom of care in the perspective of the patient and in the perspective of the right to health. On these occasions it is evident how much the freedom of reception of the cure tends to coincide with the freedom of self-determination in the therapeutic field. In one case, the warranty refers to the freedom of choice, understood as "negative space" in which the order refrains from interfering. In other cases, however, "freedom of treatment" assumes the meaning of full protection, in which the order does not only guarantee a choice but takes charge of supporting it also economically. I would like to point out that the use of a treatment - I do not say therapy - different from the traditional or entirely experimental treatment, in the absence of scientific validations, requires the need to identify certain criteria that allow it to be considered indispensable and irreplaceable: the absence of valid therapeutic alternatives; the impossibility of dealing with the cost of medicinal products; the indispensability and non-replaceability of treatment. The Constitutional Court, in judgment No 185 of 1998, read as follows: Only for (...) medicinal products, subject to clinical trials and a special temporary authorisation for therapeutic use, outside the trial, provided with ad hoc regulations, the conditions that distinguish this from all other cases of therapeutic "hope" placed in any therapy that is supposed to be effective are met. The requirement of scientific validation in relation to the freedom of reception of the cure is a fundamental, essential, inescapable and indispensable prerequisite. Article 32 of the Constitution certainly places the right to health as the primary and absolute right of the individual to retain his or her physical and psychic dignity. However, this right is in absolute form only in negative, i.e. as a right not to tolerate any behaviour of others that harms one's own health. On the other hand, at a time when it results in a claim to the public authority, this right is not and cannot be absolute. The right to health, for those suffering from illness, is only the right for public health to provide them with appropriate health care, if necessary free of charge. The treatments in question can only be recognised and registered as such by a valid medical-scientific body, national or at least international. It is not possible to exclude recognition in the competent technical framework: there would be no criterion for distinguishing a medical treatment from any practice, useful, harmless or harmful that is, not only alternative but even weird that, by objecting to a completely subjective interpretation of health treatment, should be administered, on request, by the National Health Service. While it is true that a patient cannot be prevented without any other hope of taking what he wants, a subjective right cannot be invoked for public health to take an active part in the administration of substances and, in general, therapies whose effect is still not scientifically recognized in any technical forum. From this point of view, science helps to provide the parameter of reasonableness of the legislator's choices, also in relation to respect for the principle of equality which implies, in the same perspective, the mediation of the technical factor in the immediate preceptivity of the right to health. If I wanted to make a bioethical reflection, I would say that we tried to make the principle of benefit prevail, combining this principle with that of justice. But a principle of benefit has its foundation and its existence only because of a principle that is still prior, which is that of not malice. I believe that, in the context of this declination of fundamental principles (bioethics? No: professional ethics and assistance), you can build that virtuous bridge that gives the freedom to combine with responsibility. If freedom is combined with responsibility, we will have given a concrete, effective response; we will have given a rational, unreasonable response to what are the demands of suffering and pain. To the instances of suffering and pain one cannot respond apodittically and demagogically following these instances for instrumental reasons. Just when there is suffering, just when there is pain, just when there is demand for help and care, our response must not be set in the emotional context or, even worse, of pietistic order, but must be of rational order. It is only in this way that we have declined in the noblest way our role as doctors, lawyers, philosophers, bioethics and, in this case, legislators. I believe that the action we have taken at the time within the special Commission has merely been an introduction, an opening to that subsequent step, which has undoubtedly improved, which has taken place in the House and which we receive with all the benevolence and hospitality for rigour, although, in the search for the best, let us at least limit ourselves to the good. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u38	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again in this House debating a decree-law which had put us to the test just over a month ago in the special committee and which was approved by the House yesterday. Many were the auditions. A lot of comparisons. We also treasured a magnificent investigation carried out in the last parliamentary term. However, the whole process has always been carried out under the pressure of urgency, always with a sense of dissatisfaction for the lack of something that, if it had been there, would have allowed everyone to work more easily. We've been through a difficult subject. We know of the effectiveness of haematopoietic stem cells, while with regard to the whole aspect of mesenchymal stem cells, especially with effect on the nervous system, we know very little. It is therefore a very difficult subject which requires ultra-specialistic skills and which little fits in with approximate improvisations. Moreover, everything has been discussed in a very particular climate, in which the conflicts between media speculation, the legitimate demands of researchers, who appealed to scientific rigour, and the emotional and empathic resonance of the pain of families, who saw us all participate and who brought out our most human aspect, but also, and at the same time, our duty as politicians who must respond to the citizens. This decree has also brought to light all the arbitrariness and contradictions of a regulation that is perhaps inadequate to a scientific research that is fast and that sees in the cell as a drug something that cannot, despite all the standards of safety and quality, be part of that determinism certainly typical of chemical molecules. It was also a litmus test for the weakness of our parliamentary system, whose bicameralism, which had other reasons for our constituent Fathers, today shows itself as a limit, entraping and slowing down parliamentary activity, which could be carried out in a more profitable and easy way. Nevertheless, we believe that we have done our best. We know that someone may object to the fact that, in any case, large sums have been made available at a time when we are struggling to ensure the same subsistence in the National Health Service of the LEAs, at a time when the spending review asks us for everything and more, even with important sacrifices. We did it to unravel a doubt. How much is this doubt worth? If in doubt there is the certainty or even only the possibility of a cure, or to break off incorrect speculation, in my opinion this doubt is worth all the expenditure, all the resources and all the time allocated. With this measure Parliament and the Minister have done an act of courage and have brought out the human aspect, returning to the citizens. And so they drew the attention and the presence of politics, making it concrete, which is what they ask us to do. So we threw those bridges that Senator Maurizio Romani was talking about earlier, which used an image that I liked very much, talking about bridges of freedom and rigor. We have thrown the first bridge, of availability and presence, now the other bridge we expect from the researchers, from whom we expect transparency and fairness, and from the citizens, who we hope will appreciate this effort. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and from Senator Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u40	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the case of little Sofia, a three-year-old girl suffering from metachromatic leukodystrophy (rare degenerative disease leading to progressive paralysis and blindness), has put to the attention of all public opinion and politics the need to make important decisions on the use of experimental therapies that are still not validated by the scientific community and the Minister of Health, especially after a judge has imposed to interrupt the stem treatments that the child had begun. In view of the media clamour that has created, as usual, pro and anti-Stamine deployments, the mobilization of families, the arguments of the scientific world and those dictated by the inevitable economic interests aroused, I believe that Parliament has done a serious and important job, both to the House and to the Senate, and has handed us a text in this House which contains important amendments to Decree-Law No 24 of 25 March 2013, containing urgent provisions on health matters. It is certainly not the optimal text. There would have been a need for a more in-depth discussion, but the urgency of the issues addressed - including, Madam Minister, I would like to point out that it is not appropriate to include such different issues as the closure of the OPGs and the Stamina method in the same decree-laws - leads us to refrain from proposing further amendments. However, the positive results obtained and the sense of responsibility tell us to approve the measure, except to make it, Madam Minister, some important recommendations, also given the sensitivity and attention you have given us this morning within the Commission. With regard to the completion of the process of overcoming the OPGs, which will have to be completed by 1 April 2014, it is necessary to ensure that the regions immediately present their programmes on the increase of therapeutic-rehabilitative pathways, the strengthening of mental health services and the realization or conversion of new structures or existing ones. The thing had to be done by May 15, 2013 and instead it turns out that this has happened only in some Regions. It is therefore necessary for you, together with the Minister of Justice, to be vigilant and to inform the competent Commissions of the state of implementation of regional programmes and of the degree of effective take-up of patients by the mental health departments. Returning to the so-called question of Stamina, as regards experimentation, for which you managed to find important resources (well 3 million euros), the recommendation is that this be carried out in certain times, with precise parameters and periodic checks. It would be desirable that, after the first year and therefore after the first million was granted, there should be a careful evaluation of the results obtained before the next allocation is made and the communication of the same to the competent parliamentary committees, also because it is the resources of the National Health Fund, which we know well how many cuts it has undergone and under what conditions it is. Allow me, Mr President, also to comment on the composition of the Observatory (as provided for in paragraph 4-b of the Chamber), to be set up at the Ministry of Health, on advanced mesenchymal stem cell therapies. The Observatory, which should have advisory, proposal and monitoring tasks, must be composed of experts and technicians who guarantee third parties, independence and transparency, and representatives - not of interested associations as it is written in the text - but of associations that have been working and working for years close to the sick and their families. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u42	The general debate is closed. As previously announced, the deadline for tabling amendments expires at 7 p.m. and the continuation of the discussion of the draft law in title is postponed to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u43	I note that in Annex B to today's Minutes the composition of the Bureau of the 14th Standing Commission, which has been set up, will be published. I congratulate the new president Chiti, with the wish for a profitable job.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u44	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00019 (text 3), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-0027, tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators, 1-00038, tabled by Senator Bitonci and other senators, 1-00040 (text 2), presented by Senator Berger and other senators, and 1-00042, presented by Senator Formigoni and other senators, on genetically modified crops. I would remind you that at the sitting on 15 May there was an illustration of the motions and the debate. At the request of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, the follow-up to the examination had been postponed in order to arrive at the definition of a unitary guidance document. I am aware that Senators Formigoni and others have withdrawn motion No 42 and that the G1 agenda (text 2) has been tabled, signed by Senators Ruta and others, which I invite the presenters to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u45	Mr President, we have come to the conclusion of a process of confrontation and discussion between the various political forces with meetings which I believe have had the hoped-for effect: achieving the full convergence of the vast majority of this House on this text, deposited with the Presidency, in the hope that all motions will be withdrawn. In this way, a clear message would be sent to the country, namely to commit the Government: to adopt the safeguard clause provided for in Article 23 of Directive 2001/18 of the European Community and/or to take the precautionary measure provided for in Article 34 of Regulation No 1829 of 2003, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 54 of Regulation No 178 of 2002 to protect human health, the environment and the economic and social model of the Italian agri-food sector; to strengthen the already effective monitoring and control work carried out with the involvement of the State Forestry Corps, which has long carried out checks to avoid contamination between genetically modified and non-modified crops, and to control the possible presence of unauthorised transgenic seeds; to support and strengthen, finally, public scientific research in agricultural matters. Our agricultural sector, in fact, needs to see increased research, especially in the biological field, in order to strengthen that unavailable heritage of biodiversity that is important for Italy in order to affirm, confirm and consolidate its attractiveness in the world. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to complete the round of consultations so that we can reach a united position in this House in indicating the way forward, with a vote that I hope will be unanimous, not only to Italy, not only to producers, farmers, farmers and so on, but to the world that Italy is strongly betting on its unavailable heritage, that is, on biodiversity and on the possibility of organically healthy products. We therefore need to strengthen research in order to eliminate pesticides and all that is negative impacts on our agricultural production capacity in order to strengthen in a decisive way the agri-food chain that - I remember - is the one that manages to tear out a positive sign in our gross domestic product and that records a formidable export. But I must also remember that there is a lot to do to avoid, in the world, imitations and everything that recalls Made in Italy, in all ways, even in the most unusual ones, because in the world there is great hunger for all Italian products. Here's the bet. We must bet on biodiversity, on our specificity, on our typical products, which represent an extraordinary heritage. Along with this, there is obviously also another great battle to be waged, always related to research. No one can deny that today a piece of our planet is being cultivated with GMO products, nor that much of the cattle and pig farms are fed through GMO soybeans, i.e. genetically modified organisms. It would be foolish to imagine shutting down with respect to technological progress and progress. Since it is not yet clear what the impact of genetically modified organisms on human health is, nor, from a scientific point of view, what damage can potentially cause in humankind, since we use them because we import GMO products, as well as we import products that are used to feed our livestock from which we recover milk, meat and everything else, I think it is appropriate to insist strongly that laboratory checks are carried out (since the risk of contamination in the fields is still very high). We should be able to strongly support the request to carry out laboratory research on GMOs so that they become safe and thus represent an opportunity for development, growth for Italy and the world. We must insist on this. We therefore commit the Government to support and strengthen scientific research in order to exclude that the products already used today can cause damage to the organism, the environment, the crops, their specificity and the biodiversity that exists so widely in Italy and that is an indispensable heritage. At the same time, we must imagine that research can overcome the problems of progress. For this reason, research should not only be denied, but strengthened. It is a debate that mankind faces every time; since the first train that was snorting was put into operation, about which it was said that it was the work of the devil, at the advent of the computer, at which it was discussed about what was happening in our world. Well, this is a game of extraordinary importance, but also of extraordinary potential. If we can secure it for humankind, living organisms and biodiversity, that of GMOs can become a game that changes destiny in the world. We cannot, however, go to the venture to do so. We must have scientific evidence and evidence that reassures us, that allows us to deal with a different type of cultivation, innovative, without pesticides, but that is not harmful to our organism. That is why we are in favour of withdrawing all the motions and the whole Assembly joining together on a single agenda, that it becomes - I repeat - a decisive and important message to the world of production, but above all to the rest of the world, which in this way will know in which direction Italy moves and what products it uses when it reads the brand made in Italy. In the rest of the world they will know well that a choice has been made in our country, which means tourism and export; which means making a bet. The government, of course, must do so much. We know, in fact, that without GMOs we lose competitiveness to our production capacity. The government, therefore, must give strength to small producers and to the many landowners of small plots, which also make our agricultural sector an important system. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u46	I now give the floor to the representative of the Government, to whom I would ask her to give her an opinion on the motions and the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for five minutes to suspend the sitting, because on this text we could obtain the unity of consent, even from the 5 Star Movement. If you, Mr President, allow us five minutes of suspension, then we can proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u48	Without commenting, I welcome the Minister's request and briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.42 p.m. and resumed at 5.55 p.m.) (17.55 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u49	The session is resumed. Since a further formulation of the G1 agenda (text 2) has been received by the Presidency, I would ask Senator Ruta to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u50	Madam President, the further amendment consists of the specification adopted with regard to the strengthening of scientific research: organic farming, and therefore everything that concerns crops normally produced in Italy, must be enhanced, but as far as GMOs are concerned, research must be done, but in a safe environment, namely in the laboratory, so that there is no risk of contamination of fields with other fields, of crops with other crops. With this specification we believe, without further delay, that the will to send out a very clear message, as I said before, to the nation and to the rest of the world must prevail: Italy makes a precise choice of field and says no to GMOs, yes to research strongly to maintain biodiversity and to ensure scientific progress, the improvement of human health and the environment, because all this serves and will serve even more with research to improve our conditions and our quality of life.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u51	At this point, I would ask the motion-makers whether they intend to converge on the G1 agenda (text 3), withdrawing the motions they have tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u52	Madam President, we have been fighting in our country for years with many associations and with the great part of the agricultural world... (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator De Petris. I would like to see more silence in this House and everyone listening to us, please. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ...we fight for our agricultural model not only to be protected, but also strengthened and strengthened. We are well aware that the added value of our agricultural system consists of quality and typicality: exactly the opposite of an approved model, such as that linked to transgenic agriculture. That is why we tabled the motion at my first signature: to ask without delay for a safeguard clause, which - I want to explain this once again - guarantees and safeguards the national interest, because it is our country's interest to safeguard our agriculture, which does not need genetically modified organisms. That is why we therefore believe that the priority is to reach as broad a vote as possible in this House in favour of the safeguard clause. We therefore withdraw our motion to converge on the G1 agenda (text 3). It is a matter of research. We believe that it is essential to strengthen research, but at the service of our agricultural system in many areas, because we need it. As far as we are concerned, that is the priority. In the case of genetically modified organisms (although - I repeat - that is not the priority in our country), research must take place in the confined environment and in the laboratory. But the greatest interest, as far as we are concerned, is research at the service of our quality agriculture. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u53	I would ask Senator Fattori whether he is converging on the G1 agenda (text 3) and withdraws motion No 27.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u54	Yes, Madam President, we agree on the common agenda and therefore withdraw motion No 27.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u55	I address the same question to Senator Arrigoni, who intervenes on behalf of Senator Bitonci, the first signatory of motion 38.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u56	Madam President, the North League also welcomes the intention of all the groups in this House to converge on the G1 agenda (text 3), which also incorporates the motion tabled by us. I therefore confirm that the Group of the North League withdraws motion 38. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u57	Senator Berger, do you withdraw motion 40 (text 2)?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u58	Madam President, I have signed the new text of the agenda presented as a joint initiative by everyone. Today we have talked about health and tomorrow is the International Biodiversity Day, so it is the right time to find this agreement on GMOs, so that there is no risk for our environment, for biodiversity, for our health and for future generations, because we are not joking about these things. I am therefore delighted that we have come up with a unanimous solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u59	Senator Ruvolo, do you withdraw motion 42?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u60	Madam President, I declare the convergence of the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the G1 agenda (text 3), highlighting the very positive result - I am not saying extraordinary - that we have achieved unanimity on this act of direction. I would also like to emphasise that we agree on the need to protect and highlight our 195 excellences of truly important products, known worldwide and which give great satisfaction to the agricultural sector, but we cannot forget that research is of particular importance to Italian agriculture. Only by reaching excellence also in the field of research, as happens for our products, can we really keep the flag of Italian agriculture high. It is therefore necessary to combine the two moments, that of research and that of an increasing promotion of Italian agricultural excellence. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u61	I call on the Government representative to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u62	I would like to thank the Groups, and particularly those who have tabled the motions, for having reached an agreement, for convergence on this agenda. I think we are giving a beautiful signal, showing that there is an interest on everyone's part in quality agriculture. I therefore welcome all three items on the G1 agenda (text 3). [[Applause from the PdL and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u63	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u66	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). I would like to speak briefly, in a shorter time than I have been given, to confirm the vote in favour of this agenda signed by the Mixed-SEL Group, which has the merit of finally clarifying an issue that the agricultural world has actually been asking us to deal with for some time. Even the system of regions has long been clear that the issue of GMOs is not an issue that our agricultural system needs. The other merit that I recognize on this unitary agenda, which sees my signature together with that of the other Group leaders in the Committee on Agriculture, is that we have finally made clear on an alibi that was often highlighted when we were talking about GMOs, that is, research. Nobody denies the need for agriculture to deal with the issue of innovation and research, and indeed we will ask, as far as we are concerned, for the hearings that have been scheduled in the Agriculture Commission to be held also with the hearing of the Council for Research and Experimentation in Agriculture (CRA), so that we can understand how this body is moving on the subject of research in agriculture and how it is consistent with the understanding that the Senate is called to express today. Research is certainly necessary in agriculture, but we imagine that we need research compatible with our model of agricultural development, with what our agriculture is asking us to say, and we certainly cannot include the issue of GMOs in this, except, as has rightly been pointed out and stressed, in confined environments, by preventing the risk on which we have risked falling several times, which is that of coexistence. I repeat, therefore, that our vote is firmly in favour and I believe that if the Senate today can be united in this vote, as it seems to me to happen, the Minister will have all the tools to exercise the safeguard clause as well as what has already done at least eight European countries, supporting the request for the exercise of a safeguard clause with the copious scientific documentation of which we now have. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Elena Ferrara.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u69	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Madam President, Madam Minister, this common agenda, with the clarification on safe research, that it does not create any risk to biologicals, as Senator Ruta has pointed out, will receive the support of our Group in his new text. This document for us is a very strong sign of what our environment, our biodiversity and our specific traditional product are worth. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - Senator Elena Ferrara's PSI and SCPIe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u72	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief comment. The European Parliament has given us the opportunity to choose which type of crop to pursue in our country: with the agenda in our examination we take the opportunity to insist on the rejection of GMO crops. The North League reaffirms the defence and valorization of the originality of Italian products, which represents the peculiarity of our country's agriculture, whose value lies precisely in its diversity and not in the homologation. We want to continue to favour an agricultural model that, with the different products, reflects the characteristics of the territory, strengthens its identity and creates economic value and employment. The challenges of agriculture and those who work there, representing this important sector of our economy, be they farmers or farmers, must be actions against globalisation and multinationals in favour of agricultural identity. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] This is also the way to continue to arouse the interest of young people in the agricultural world. In fact, let us remember that the return of young people to agriculture is a phenomenon of countertrend. Young people have ideas and a way of approaching in an innovative and different way that can only have space in typical and seasonal agriculture. The North League vote is obviously in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Fattori and Pepe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u75	IN MAY (SPI). Madam President, I would first like to stress the result that we have reached on the agenda. I remember that the work done was of great importance and certainly not a little tiring, being really difficult and complicated the topic that we are dealing with, even for the different feelings that move the feelings of each of us towards him. Citizens' choice will vote in favour of the agenda. However, I would like to stress a number of fundamental points. I would remind you that we have moved above all in an attempt to bring back into the right tracks the open debate on the issue of GMOs, taking care to identify what is meant by that acronym. Therefore, we have been able to reason scientifically on this issue and, in order to do this, we have identified our choices with European legislation as the basis for reasoning. In this respect, we agreed that the safeguard clause provided for in Article 23 of Directive 2001/18/EC, or Article 34 of Regulation No 1829 of 2003, which is still applicable to the European Community, should be the instruments by which we can safely have reasonable assurance that the European Union has secured the GMO assessment system. However, this cannot lead us to say whether we are confidently in favour of or against GMOs, whether we are for or against their use. We have emphasized this other need, especially with the affirmation of the principle of research, which cannot fail to agree with us. As a result of all this I believe it is essential to commit the Government, leaving it wide discretion, to act through Article 34 or the safeguard clause provided for in Article 23 to give guarantees to the citizen and satisfy the need to safeguard the environment that recommends us in a particular way the world of Italian agriculture. I remember in fact that the products of our agricultural sector are the most important for the economy of the country. Therefore, bearing in mind the safeguard clause to be adopted in view of the needs of our agricultural world, Civic Choice declares to vote in favour of this agenda. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u78	FACTORS (M5S). Senator colleagues, today's agenda has a very important value for the 5 Star Movement. We are talking about seed control, which is at the heart of the food chain. It is, therefore, a primary source of life: when a company controls the seeds, it controls the life of the human population. Food and water are the new goods that are the subject of speculation of the great lobbyists who want to transform what are common and indispensable goods of humanity into objects of speculation and instruments of control. It is becoming increasingly clear that the demands of multinational companies for the production of genetically modified organisms, which are unrelated to the common interests of Community citizens, are capable of influencing the European Union's choices at all levels, including conventional and organic agricultural production. The vast majority of European citizens actually want to maintain the quality agricultural productions that, especially in our country, represent the added value on the global market. Our concern stems from the fact that the introduction into open environments of GMOs, where it took place, has shown that this is an irreversible operation and the devastating effects. The massive introduction of GMOs for the human population, at least according to the latest available data on the safety of these elements, could have devastating and unpredictable effects in their scope. The irreversibility of contamination is also mentioned in Directive No 18 of 2001, the relevant reference standard, which, in point 4, states that: Living organisms released into the environment in large or small quantities for experimental purposes or as commercial products may reproduce and spread beyond national borders, thus affecting other Member States; the effects of such emissions may be irreversible. Business interests at Community level, contrary to what the community considers to be the most healthy for itself, are also endorsed in subsequent Regulation No 1829 of 2003, which refers to the precautionary principle: a wise principle according to which precautionary action is appropriate with regard to political and economic decisions on the management of scientifically controversial issues. Unfortunately, according to the same regulation, civil society has to bear the burden of demonstrating the harmfulness of authorised GMOs. Instead, we believe that it is the institutions that have to take responsibility for the protection and protection of citizens, avoiding contamination at the origin and not, as is usually done in this country, going to put a piece where the damage has already been done. The joint agenda presented today commits the Government to strengthening research. We insisted on doing a public research in the field of agriculture, and I must say that I am pleasantly surprised, as a former researcher, for the unexpected attention to Italian research, just the research that the bad policies of the previous government have degraded, bringing our excellences abroad. The change we requested on the agenda was to limit laboratory research because, unfortunately, research in the field of vegetable GMOs often takes place in the open field, and more than research is deliberate and irreversible release into the open field, which paves the way for wild cultivation. We wanted to avoid this result by asking to confine the research in the laboratory. We are, however, of the opinion that an agenda cannot be the instrument for stimulating a serious research programme, but we need adequate investment plans and structures. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement, considering the last point, in which we decided that this type of research should be confined to the laboratory, decided to converge on the agenda, because we believe that the activation of the safeguard clause to the first point is a necessity and together a strong signal of rapprochement of the institutions to the citizens, a necessary act of prevention too often forgotten in this Parliament in the past years. However, we reiterate our absolute opposition to the cultivation of GMOs in the open field. For these reasons of civic sense, of safeguarding public health, of having to protect the common and fundamental goods of the citizens, as well as of valorization of the added value that the agricultural sector brings to the economy of our country, we reiterate our hope that the resources mentioned on this agenda are aimed mainly at biological research, in order to implement this production that sees the export to Europe constantly increasing. Finally, I would like to point out that we in the 5 Star Movement show a strong sense of responsibility and are able to converge on shared common choices: we hope that this Parliament will do the same for us when our motions are for the common good. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u81	RUVOLO (PdL). Madam President, only to declare the Group of the People of Freedom's Group's vote in favour and to thank, if I may, the Minister for being able to put all together on this great issue and on this great problem. I would also like to remind my fellow Members that we are not in the year zero with regard to legislation, which, moreover, is dated 2003. In fact, in its Article 25, Legislative Decree No 224 specifically provides for the procedure for the exercise of the safeguard clause. Maybe some notes come out of the choir, but I would like to remind you that this country is equipped with the safeguard rules, precisely in reference to Article 25 of the aforementioned legislative decree. Having found this unanimous consensus, I can only express a wish for good work, since there is so much to do on this matter. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u84	RUTA (PD). Madam President, when I refer to what was said on the occasion of the presentation of the agenda, I take this opportunity to thank all the Groups, because I believe that an intelligent work has been done, in which everyone has renounced something of his own beliefs, in order to give a precise signal to Italy, to the world of agri-food and agricultural production, and especially abroad: that we make a precise bet in Italy. That is the value of the vote we are about to vote on. We commit the Government to do more for those who produce in Italy without the advantage of GMOs, without their guarantee of competitiveness, but giving goodness, well-being and quality of life to our fellow citizens who will use genuine products, organic products and anything else. It is clear that, with regard to this choice, we also send a message to the world of research. Here we say yes to research on GMOs - certainly in a safe place, in a laboratory - because we understand that this can be a new important frontier, that can change destiny and improve the quality of life of all humanity. For this reason, we believe that it was a significant and important choice to have included research on GMOs, in addition to research on non-GMO agriculture and organic farming. Even on that ridge, the choice we make is important. My colleague was right: it is a reversal of the trend. More research, because only through research, only by going beyond and looking for new frontiers, the problems of development, of a compatible development, are solved. In conclusion, I say quietly that the postponement of a week (Mr Fattori complained about it) thanks to the contribution of all, has served precisely to achieve unanimity in this House and give a precise address to our Government. I believe that the victory is precisely of this House and of democratic institutions, which still work and which, when working well, give an important signal to the country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u85	I put to the vote the agenda G1 (text 3), tabled by Senator Ruta and other senators. It's approved. [[Applause from the PD, PdL and SCpI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u88	DE POLI (SPI). Madam President, I would like to ask for the intervention of the Government and draw attention to the great floods that have occurred in Northern Italy and in particular in Veneto. I wouldn't want this time to ignore what happened. We have, in our territory, damages amounting to 430 million euros (this was considered by the Region) for the beaches; we have as many millions of damages relative to the crops and to the whole agricultural world, not to mention all the damages that have suffered the private homes, the companies and some public works. I believe that strategic action must be taken in order to secure our territories, in particular by making lamination invades which are essential to ensure that these disasters do not occur. Five of them have been designed in the territory of Veneto, but unfortunately only one has been in competition to date, while the others are still stuck for a thousand other types of problems, in particular for the bureaucracy blocks, on the one hand, and for the lack of funds necessary to reach the goal of securing the territory of Veneto, on the other, especially the territories of the high and low Padua and Vicenza, which a few days ago, as unfortunately happened also in 2010, all went underwater. Therefore, I ask once again for the Government to intervene with a strategic plan for the territory of Veneto and I would also like to say for all the other parts of Italy, where, with precipitations a little higher than normal, these things happen that today should not happen. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u91	GRANAIOLA (PD). Madam President, the Stuttgart Public Prosecutor confirmed, confirming its reasons, the closure of the investigation into the Nazi massacre of Sant'Anna di Stazzema, the Tuscan town where 560 civilians were massacred on 12 August 1944, including 116 boys and children, the smallest of whom were only twenty days old. All this, despite having reached the previous convictions of the court of Rome, not only on the basis of precise documentary evidence and testimonials, but also through the depositions of some accused rei confessi. It was a crime against humanity, consciously perpetrated in an attempt to isolate and stem the partisan struggle. Today, with the decision of the Stuttgart Public Prosecutor, compared to one of the most heinous Nazi-fascist massacres during the Second World War against innocent men, women and children, we are denied the possibility of hitting those directly responsible and the material authors. But no legal motivation can ever hide, tarnish or deny the moral, civil and historical responsibilities of those tragic facts. That of Stuttgart is a sentence that renews the pain of the survivors and descendants of the victims, offends the democratic conscience of the Italian people and the memory of those who struggled and suffered for the liberation of Italy from the Nazi-fascist barbarism. I recall a hard, detailed appeal made at the time by the President of the Republic that the sentences imposed on those responsible for the massacre of Saint Anne of Stazzema should be carried out. I raise that appeal, not only remembering with pain what happened on that tragic day, not only for the justice that we owe to the innocent victims, but above all looking to the future. We all hope that events like that will not happen again. However, young people, national and international institutions and citizens must be sure that when a crime is committed against humanity this will never be closed down and all those responsible will always be prosecuted with firmness, reason and determination. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and from Senator Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u92	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-25.ana.u93	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 22 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.31 a.m.
