ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 28 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) on issues relating to initiatives in favour of the development of youth farming entrepreneurship and the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), to which the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Mr De Girolamo, will respond. I'm sensing that RAI's live TV is on. Let us now turn to the questions on initiatives to promote the development of youth farming entrepreneurship. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u6	BERTUZZI (PD). Mr President, Minister, one thing I need to do is to introduce the subject: 3 million hectares of AA, i.e. of utilized agricultural area, out of the more than 12 million totals of our country are now managed by entrepreneurs over 65 years old. This means that in the next ten years a quarter of the national territory will end up on the land market. We can see that the market regulates this phase freely, waiting to find a landscape and a modified agricultural GDP. Compared to this, the alternative is to be able to build agricultural policy measures that cross what we imagine should be the future of our agriculture and our landscape, and those measures will have to focus on who will be able to carry them forward in the medium and long term, and it is the young people. In these days I have seen that you have met so many representatives of young people and you have also made a great deal of effort to put measures in place. I'll talk about three aspects. I would like a reply on the possibility of setting up the farmland bank in our country. Secondly, I would like to know how you intend to replace the Observatory for Youth Entrepreneurship in Agriculture (OIGA), a body that has been suppressed by the previous Minister who has not been able, however, to build a new governance that includes the participation of youth representatives in agricultural policy decisions. The third question is to know what value you give to the possibility of building a specific slim regulation, which gives in some way stability to measures of incentive to start up and to the permanence of young people in agriculture.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u9	Formigoni (PdL). Mr President, Madam Minister, I believe that the issue of generational replacement in agriculture in our country can be described as very serious. Perhaps the word emergency is abused in our language, but we must think that in Italy farmers under the age of 35 are only 3% of the total, that is less than half of the rate observed in Europe, also afflicted by a serious problem of generational replacement, which in our country presents these aspects further worrying. You will have noticed this among young people, despite all that we note a revival of interest in the agricultural world. I myself have had the opportunity, in recent years and months, to meet many young people who are eager to face the difficult and complicated profession of commitment to agriculture. The problem then is to implement policies at European and national level. At European level we expected more in this direction from the CAP. At least, however, the Commission of the European Parliament has indicated an increase in appropriations. My question is very simple and clear: what do you and the Italian Government intend to do to help young farmers who want to engage in this sensitive sector?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u12	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, Madam Minister, the serious employment situation, which is the result of the serious economic crisis in Italy, is particularly acute at the youth level. According to the latest ISTAT data, 38.4% of young people working in Italy are out of work. Article 66 of Decree-Law No. 1 of 2012 provides that by June 30 of each year the Minister of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies, therefore her own, individuals with decree agricultural land and with agricultural vocation not usable for other institutional purposes to be alienated by the State Property Agency. Speaking at the assembly of young entrepreneurs, you supported the firm will to reopen a discussion table concerning the possible sale or rental of state property, with the right of pre-emption for young farmers. As 5 Star Movement we would like to know if you do not consider it appropriate to take urgent action to facilitate the granting of the land covered by the legislation cited to young people who are unemployed or unemployed of long course through a set of regulations that favor and protect the agricultural use of the land themselves, and not their alienation, and that support those who want to start expanding an agricultural activity in order to promote and enhance the culture of the typical products of our territory, making available the use of land, guaranteed and fair rentals.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u15	IN MAY (SPI). Mr President, Madam Minister, agriculture and agri-food are a solid reality in our economic and productive system: an economic dimension of about 250 billion, equal to 17% of GDP; 3 million people employed in agriculture and upstream and downstream sectors. Agro-food is a sector of excellence of Made in Italy and with its network of widespread enterprises is a factor of social cohesion and development of rural areas. However, the agricultural sector, while showing a better trend than in other sectors, does not escape the current crisis situation. In this context, young people who wanted to engage in business in the agricultural world would face a number of obstacles. I'll try to name a few of them. The first, of an economic nature, comes mainly from the insufficient income of agricultural activity. A second, of market, comes from the cost and the low availability of the good land, from a high cost of labor and from a great difficulty of access to credit. Moreover, there is a cultural factor, with the chronic lack of dissemination of knowledge. Finally, there is a structural problem arising from the inefficiency of the bureaucratic apparatus and the inadequate provision of services. How do you think, Madam Minister, that you can intervene in order to facilitate and, consequently, facilitate young people's activities in the agricultural sector? Will it be possible, for example, to imagine a European credit guarantee fund exclusively for young entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u18	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, because of the continuing economic crisis in our country, we believe it is urgent to find concrete solutions to promote the entry of young people into the world of work, and agriculture can constitute a valid employment opportunity, since it has always been a strategic sector for the Italian economy. You yourself, Madam Minister, stated in some of your speeches that young people need to believe in their dreams and to come back to believe in the future. It is the young farmers who have shown that they can still bet in this activity. However, we must help them and give them concrete answers. The actual measures that could be used to help these young farmers are considered one of the pillars of the new CAP, and the necessary support is confirmed in the proposal for a regulation on rural development. We are, however, in the presence, Madam Minister, of alarming and worrying data. If there is no aid for young people, we can only expect a desertification of the countryside, a continuous abandonment of agricultural activity, and there will certainly be no future generation of agro-entrepreneurs, more important than ever in the management of the territory. In particular, Madam Minister, we would like to ask what your Dicastery intends to do, including and above all in the tax field, in order to facilitate the introduction of a substitute tax on the income of businesses and their additional taxes on young farmers. This should enable the sector to grow old in all respects and young people to continue one of the major activities in Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u21	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, Minister, thank you for your presence. As Mr Formigoni has already mentioned, I would like to point out that 2.9 percent of Italian farmers are under 39 years of age and 46 percent are above 65, which means that in the generational change we are not exactly the most virtuous. That is why it is good for the CAP to provide, both in the first and the second pillars, very strong support for the inclusion of young farmers in the sector. In examining the current situation, we can see that young people would like to devote themselves to this activity, but there are problems that do not offer positive prospects: among them, I remember the cost of work, the bureaucracy and the complexity of the bureaucratic process in the establishment of employment relations. Madam Minister, it is precisely with regard to young farmers but also, more generally, to youth employment, the so-called vouchers employed in the occasional agricultural work carried out in the harvest, in the harvest of olives, in the harvest of fruit, in the hay and in the alpine pastures have worked very well and have also offered support to those who are young entrepreneurs in agriculture. Law No 92 of 2012 on labour market reform has complicated the possibility of offering occasional work to young people via vouchers. I would therefore ask you to intervene in order to extend access to occasional work to all young people, and to help young farmers in terms of labour costs as well. In this way it would be possible to create employment relationships favourable not only to youth employment but also to young farmers. This favourable aspect, in fact, also gives a boost to the desire to become agricultural entrepreneurs, which we absolutely need.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u24	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Mr President, Madam Minister, the two issues we are dealing with today are distinct, but in reality they are interwoven: the development of youth entrepreneurship in agriculture cannot be separated from forms of support that can and must fall within the funds provided for the common agricultural policy. Obviously in Sicily we are very interested in the topic, because our Region, as everyone says and writes, could live only of tourism and agriculture; in reality, we live a working emergency more dramatic than elsewhere. The agricultural sector could absorb so many working capacities of our young people and, if that does not happen, it is because working in agriculture today does not produce decent incomes. In fact, the figure at our disposal tells us that the income from agriculture in Italy has fallen by 35% and in ten years it has drifted away from the average of European colleagues, which instead shows an increase of 5.3%. So many young people are moving away from the idea that this sector can offer them a job, where it would, on the other hand, greatly need the freshness of young people, their special openness to innovation and - why not? - their greater awareness of the strong relationship between agriculture and human health and the environment. Under these conditions, a young man who intends to be a farmer, particularly in the South of Italy, becomes almost a hero. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister (who is very young), what action you intend to take to support youth agriculture in the Mezzogiorno and throughout Italy in order to make it easier for our young people to get closer to this sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u27	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Minister, you know, as many other Members have already said, that, unfortunately, Italy has a record that is not positive, because, together with Portugal, it is the country with the highest rate of ageing in this sector, with a young farmer under 40 every 14 farmers over 65 years old. It is clear that this is a very serious risk factor for the whole agri-food sector, because it helps to feed the highest rate of abandonment of agricultural land, with all the consequences that this entails. At the same time, we know that, on the other hand, there is a strong recovery of interest on the part of young people, which would lead to a high level of education, competence and innovation in agriculture. There is, however, a very serious problem, which is precisely about access to the earth. I use this expression, although it seems that we are talking about fifty years ago: I am talking about access to the earth. Among other things, Decree-Law No. 1 of 24 January 2012 provided for the possibility of - as we say - renting the land to young people. The implementing decree was to be issued in June last year, but we had no more news. We are very precise, because the problem of access to land is still the first issue. We would like to know from you what have been the reasons that have hindered the issuing of the ban linked to the decree and if it does not consider it appropriate, however the ownership of the Regions and the local authorities, to issue an implementing circular of the decree, in order to ensure that the assets of the Regions and the local authorities are made available, in convenient use or for rent, to young farmers. I believe that this is one of the fundamental issues, as well as of course those relating to credit and other problems, also related to youth projects under the Rural Development Programmes (RDPs), which have certainly not gone well to date.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u28	I call Mr De Girolamo, Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of youth entrepreneurship in agriculture is certainly a priority issue that draws the attention not only of the Italian Parliament but also of Europe. I come from several meetings in Europe on the CAP issues and the issue has been taken into account as we have a problem of generational replacement and of constant ageing in the agricultural sector. The questions I have been asked are different, but I will try to give an answer which contains some of them. For example, as far as the whole part of incentives and access to credit is concerned, much has been done within the regions as far as RDP is concerned, and at national level with the Youth Entrepreneurship Development Fund in agriculture. But there is something more, because - Senator Bertuzzi asked me about the farmland bank - intervention has been made on the sale of agricultural land and on the European Youth Fund, which is not currently planned. I have had a meeting these days with the current President of ABI Patuelli and the President of ISMEA to discuss a solution for access to credit in general, but in particular with regard to young people. One of the solutions I have imagined, and on which I am working in conjunction with the Ministry, with the State and - I also respond to Senator De Petris - with the Deposit and Loan Fund, is a similar operation to that which has been made in the Deposit and Loan Bank for the State property that concerns the agencies and the Regions. Taking up that text concerning the valuation of state property to be entrusted to young people for rent or for sale, I asked the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, which is however a piece of state, to make a new valorization of these land, because the data disseminated with the previous Government leave me a little'suspicious, being much lower than those that we who deal with the agricultural world expected. We think of a revaluation that can also include a sale. In their intercourse with the State, the sale should include a mechanism of anticipation with which a fund dedicated to young people is established. Since securitisation has not had great effects in our country, I think this could be one of those systems that would allow young farmers to access funds directly and at the same time also have a response on state property that must be absolutely sold or rented to young entrepreneurs who want to take care of the sector, also because all recent data show that only one in four of those looking to the world of work is under the age of forty. In this respect, coordination work is also needed with the other ministries: I am thinking of the Ministry of Education in order to make school orientation, because all young people coming from agricultural education, whether from high school or university, find much more space in the labour market than in other categories. Vouchers are fine, even if it is a reform of the Ministry of Labour of 2012: they have had great success and attention and it will be my burden to bring them to the attention of the current minister Giovannini, to ensure that this instrument is widely used. As regards the replacement of the IGA, which is the subject of another question that has been asked to me, it is true that it has been abolished, and it is a concern that I share, but the functions are carried out within the National Rural Network with a task force for young people. Of course, this will find great answers in the CAP reform. I have been to the informal Council of Ministers in Ireland and there I have been able to discuss this with the various Member States, because regardless of the final orientation of the negotiations (if optionality or compulsoryness is applied for the 25% increase), I intend to apply the 25% increase, so give answers to young people beyond Europe's orientation. Therefore, if optional, for Italy it will be an obligation because I think that young people should be helped and they should be given answers, so that in addition to facilitating the delivery of decoupled payments to young people, it will also be possible to allocate 2% of the annual ceiling for direct payments, which corresponds to an amount of around EUR 76 million per year for additional support to this category. The experience I have gained in these first days of exercising the role of Minister tells me that isolated interventions are not effective in the field. Therefore, special attention will have to be paid to another issue that has been raised: that of bureaucratic simplification. In this respect, it is clear that simplification is part of the CAP in rural development. In addition, I have asked Mr Alfano to help us in this respect by creating a mechanism for simplifying controls which may include the involvement of prefectures. This, in order to prevent some farms from being harassed (as in a kind of therapeutic aggressiveness) and others from being controlled. This should allow farmers to have more time to deal with farm problems, to make profits and to deal with the land, rather than to dispose of cards that end up losing competitiveness. My work, however, will develop as a wide-ranging action on several fronts, to give concrete answers to the many questions you have asked me today. I thank you for the awareness that you have brought to this House because these are issues that are very dear to agriculture. By referring to what Senator Council has just said, I think that young people in this country in general, but especially young people in agriculture, should return the dream, which is something that unfortunately my generation have stolen.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u30	I thank the Minister for his answers. They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u33	BERTUZZI (PD). Mr President, Madam Minister, I believe that we will have the opportunity next week to look into the issues that I have put before you, to which you have not responded directly, such as that of the agricultural land bank and that of the abolition of the IGA. Surely the task force within the Natura Network is important as a forge of ideas and discussion, but the place of the decision, especially if one thinks of allocating resources, cannot foresee a role of young people merely consultative, but must imagine a decisive role and control.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u36	Formigoni (PdL). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister, because it seems to me that her response shows that our Ministry intends to march in the right direction. I would just like to make a very special recommendation (the Minister mentioned it): I would stress the absolute need for attention to training paths. Our young people who want to engage in agriculture need to have schools available to help them. Today, agriculture is new, technological, advanced, it is really the third millennium. There are experiences of very positive schools that need to be supported and multiplied.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u39	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, Madam Minister, your answer could not be exhaustive given the time and the problems raised. From my point of view, I am not particularly satisfied with the fact that involving the Deposit and Loan Fund for the estimation and sale of a state asset is not a fair thing, even if it would enable a fund to be created that could help young people. However, I would also like to stress the importance of the fact that the subject is on the table. Next week we will have the opportunity to meet you in the Commission and to develop the subject better.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u42	IN MAY (SPI). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. I think that perhaps we would need a little more time to try to find solutions, especially with regard to the most important aspect of the issue to our attention: to facilitate the entry of young people into the world of agricultural enterprises through a better bureaucracy of the system. I have seen, however, that the relations we have begun to have with the Commission are more than profitable, so I believe that next week, at the time of the Minister's hearing, we will have the opportunity to deepen the matter in that forum.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u45	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply. As for your Ministry's commitment to incentives and access to credit, that's fine. As far as your commitment to bureaucratic simplification is concerned, I would say that we are on the line. I am sure that we can do better than that for farmers, especially young people, and I am not just talking about tax breaks. As for the involvement of schools, they are in line with Senator Formigoni, provided that the schools are not actually left alone, but there is a involvement of the schools in the more specific agricultural activity, where the production is aimed at quality and a made in Italy that needs to be exported (also with regard to agricultural products).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u48	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply and for her commitment to broaden the voucher system. It is good that I have also addressed the issue of training, which is an essential aspect for agriculture, but I must stress that agricultural schools and institutes are full. Youth wants to know, to learn and also to work, but we must create the possibilities, which are precisely the ones that are lacking at the present time. Therefore, we must take advantage of every opportunity to create opportunities for young people. The reform of the pension sector was not exactly suitable to make young people take over from those who leave business: in fact, the entrepreneur must remain more time in place to have the pension right. So there's a contradiction between one and the other. I have heard, however, that the Committee on Agriculture is working on these issues, and we hope that they will result in good results.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u51	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Mr President, Minister, thank you for your speech, which has been quite exhaustive. We think very simply that any activity, if it produces income, invites young people and people to carry it out. It is clear, then, that that is the way forward. I repeat that we must remain calm because, if agriculture can earn a living, it will all be natural: children will go to schools, they will go to school and so on. The European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) has done a lot, but we have checked that these funds have often been insufficient, and in line with the financing of productive activities for young people it should be stepped up. So let's get back to this: we have to put something in it and then streamline the procedures. You're absolutely right. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara Mario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u54	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr De Girolamo, but I would like to ask him, precisely because he is a woman and a young man, to take the answer on access to the earth to heart. I referred to the ban because we need to give priority to the rent. You can't invest a capital to buy, but we have to facilitate access. It is therefore necessary to publish the ban with the list of all the land: from what we understand, there are 380,000 hectares. This is the question that I ask the Minister to address, because if the Ministry adopts the decree with the ban and the list would give a clear and precise indication for all the regions and local authorities that have the majority of the property of these 380,000 hectares. This really is an opportunity to ensure that many young people return to agriculture, so that they can bring culture, research and innovation to a sector that is fundamental for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u55	We now come to questions concerning the reform of the common agricultural policy, to which the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Mr De Girolamo, will reply. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u58	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Mr President, Minister, the trilogues between the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament are under way in order to establish an agreement for the reform of the CAP. The information that comes does not allow us to define a certain picture of the situation, although very recent statements by the Commissioner hope for positive solutions by the end of June. The question of timing, in fact, is not to be overlooked when it comes to the demanding work of defining legal texts and subsequent decision-making steps. Above all, the fundamental question arises as to the decisions of the Community budget, and in it the agricultural budget, which still has no answer. There are also specific, but strategically important issues, which are also awaiting definition: greening, the level of coupled payments and the definition of active farmer in the first pillar; the possibility of implementing national rural development programmes and the establishment of a financial compensation clause between the different regional plans in the second pillar. Finally, in the single CMO, the guarantee of an adequate financial envelope for support to producer organisations. What are the Government's assessments of the ongoing discussion? What initiatives have been taken and which, as you yourself have told us, have already taken care of them, are they intended to take to facilitate the agreement? It is well known that not only because of the amount of resources available, but also because of the quality of the policies adopted, the CAP is decisive for national agricultural interests, not least those deriving from the measures proposed in the second pillar on insurance against natural disasters that would be so much needed in the contingent situation. We are referring to the continuation of a spring (if so called) which, at the gates of the month of June, still records very low temperatures and absolutely exceptional and abundant rains in each region. We would also like to see whether in the second pillar you think there can be better definitions.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u61	Formigoni (PdL). Mr President, Minister, let us not hide that the CAP is, or could be, one of the most serious pitfalls for our agriculture. The proposals of Commissioner Ciolos, although starting from shared principles, go (I hope we could say "go" in a direction that is absolutely not acceptable: in a world that is no longer surplus, but now deficit of food commodities, the Ciolos proposals promoted policies in favour of the reduction of agricultural production. That is why I believe that the Italian Government should give its full support to the amendments proposed by the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture, which have corrected, from a codecision point of view, the serious errors contained in the Commission's proposal, thus softening the greening and giving greater emphasis to the production objectives. In addition, I would like to put to your attention some further amendments that the Italian Government might propose; I quote the titles for brevity: flexibility between pillars (necessary for our economy); greater attention to small farmers (the aid, albeit maximum, must be extended) and attention to the supply chains of oil, fruit and vegetables and wine which are products for which Italy is known all over the world.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u64	DE PIN (M5S). Mr President, Minister, in our Group's motion for a resolution to the DEF, we spoke of the obvious ineffectiveness of the Common Agricultural Policy. The news of the negotiations for the new CAP could be said to be optimistic. Those who considered the agreement on reform between the Ministers as a matter of fact, following the general approach reached two months ago, I think they changed their minds. Commissioner Dacian Ciolos does not miss an opportunity to express his dissatisfaction with the progress of the negotiations. He has recently even stated that he is not convinced of the real will of the 27 Member States to maintain a common agricultural policy. Added to this are the contrasts between the Council and the European Parliament with regard to the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, and we know with certainty that we must exclude any possibility of re-opening the budget for the period 2014 to 2020 for agriculture. The funds will be blocked at EUR 278 billion for the payment of direct CAP aid and EUR 85 billion for rural development programmes. Compared with the Commission's proposals, agricultural appropriations have been cut by EUR 17 billion. The 5 Star Movement Group would like to know, with regard to young farmers, small businesses and sustainable agriculture (i.e. the issues that should be at the heart of CAP reform), what the government is really and concretely doing and intending to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u67	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Mr President, kind Minister, it must be borne in mind that the alignment with the objectives of the CAP 2014-2020 will have a decisive impact on the strategies for programming and management of resources related to the rural development policies of our country and that the recent redefinition of some central mechanisms of the CAP (starting from the mechanism of internal convergence) will presumably allow Italy to recover the penal effects foreseen in the original formulation, also because many crucial nodes, such as the definition of active farmer and the obligations to comply with the requirement of greening (both based on parameters difficult to apply to Italian specificity) have been re-modulated towards greater flexibility and autonomy. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that some issues remain open, such as the need to exploit the most sustainable agricultural practices. In view of this, I would like to ask you, Minister, what initiatives and strategies you intend to prepare to further protect Italian specificities compared to the parameters of access to funding foreseen for the CAP.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u70	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam Minister, the strong link of our country's agriculture with the territory has not only environmental implications, as we consider that agriculture is the central component of a complex socio-economic system, which includes all the economic activities ranging from the supply of agricultural inputs to the final consumption of agri-food products, and which is worth about 240 billion euros, equal to 15% of the gross product around. As part of the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy for 2014-2020, which aims to strengthen the competitiveness, sustainability and consolidation of agriculture throughout the European Union, particular attention is paid to the distribution of resources through direct payments that will have to be careful to support the diversity of European agriculture. Madam Minister, first of all to myself, I would remind you that Italian agriculture is the second in Europe for the value of production, but the first for quality products and for organic production, for which Italy is also the fourth largest producer in the world. Having said that, Minister, I would like to know what policies it intends to adopt in order to promote in all the relevant fora a clear and delineated strategy focused on the relaunch and future development of the agri-food system and on the support of Italian products and consumer rights, I would say not only Italian, but worldwide, which enjoy the specificity and quality of Italian products.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u73	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Madam Minister, we are aware that agriculture is really the primary sector that translates the product of the earth into money. The real economy is represented more than anything by agriculture. For this reason, the real economy can only start from agriculture: but not from an agriculture subcontracted to industry, which also gives a distorted image to consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, the snacks we give our children are not produced on farms where beautiful actors make cookies while talking to chickens, yet today no one can question that agriculture represents a real crossroads in terms of public health, environmental protection and development. Let us look, therefore, with suspicion at those who tend to pass the representation of the strongest interests as a general interest. For this reason, the political forces are called upon to clarify, without ambiguity, the role of agricultural producers in the relationship between industry and agriculture. In the light of this, we turn to your sensitivity, Madam Minister, to ask whether, within the framework of the new CAP, the Government intends to defend producers' incomes and defend the CAP from the barracks underlying the agreements (such as the recent EU-Morocco agreement, which penalises Italian agriculture and in particular the Sicilian one). I would also ask whether it does not believe that these agreements should be revised and reworded, and whether the Government intends to defend anti-crisis measures and credit policies for agriculture, to defend transparency, the health of Italians and the promotion of territories with labelling in the exclusive interest of consumers and to intensify the fight against food fraud and counterfeiting (we see what happens every day).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u76	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Madam President, Minister, the CAP is certainly the policy instrument for national policy for the next seven years. It is not only a policy instrument for agricultural policy, but also in a certain sense, through rural development, the second pillar of the environmental sector. Mountain agriculture also has a very, very strong impact on soil, the environment and nature. This is also the strength for the tourism sector in these areas, because the only production activity in the European market has absolutely no effect in terms of competition compared to that produced by mountain agriculture. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, what value and weight it gives mountain agriculture in the planning of the agricultural sector for the next seven years.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u79	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam Minister, you certainly know better than we that the outcome of the reform of the CAP is crucial for Italy, because it can have a major impact on the whole agri-food sector, because there is an annual budget for Italy of about EUR 5 billion. Unfortunately, we know once again that even in this reform, in an almost structural way, Mediterranean agriculture is being sacrificed, once again for the benefit of continental agriculture, in a short-sighted way, because Europe itself should keep these two agricultures together. However, we are asking you specifically for clarification on three priority issues: on market measures, how you intend to deal with the problem of the market crisis in the reform; the still open question of the active farmer, a strategic issue in order to concentrate on those who actually live in agriculture a budget of declining resources, and how Member States will be allowed flexibility in the definition, so that we can adapt it to our situation; and finally the issue of wine planting rights, which for Italy is crucial, because a drastic elimination of the current regime would put in serious difficulty a sector for us of success and excellence in the world.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u80	I call Mr De Girolamo, Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it will obviously not be easy to answer in ten minutes on such an important subject, on which we have been working in Europe for three years. Of course, the occasion of the hearing in the Commission will be for everyone a moment of deepening. I hope to be exhaustive, but I doubt I can do it in ten minutes. As you know, three important moments for the common agricultural policy have taken place in the past few months of February and March. The first point concerns the agreement in the European Council on the multiannual financial framework, which in fact also established the criteria for allocating CAP resources; then, the agreement in the Council of Agriculture Ministers in March 2013, which allowed a compromise to be reached on the four main reform regulations (direct payments, common market organisation, rural development and horizontal regulation). Last March, the European Parliament also ratified its mandate to negotiate with COMAGRI. At this point the negotiating machine was ready to arrive at the debate between the three institutions: Council, Commission and Parliament. On the basis of the agreements reached in the Council and in Parliament, the Irish Presidency has therefore taken immediate action by providing for a very busy schedule of meetings, so-called trilogues, which have the task of finalising the agreement between the three institutions mentioned above. However, up to now, in my opinion, these works have produced no appreciable results. The greatest progress has been made in the regulations on direct payments and rural development, but there are still many difficulties, unfortunately, for the regulations on the Common Market Organisation and, to some extent, also on the horizontal regulation. At the last informal Council in Dublin, to which I referred first, on 27 and 28 May last, the Presidency reiterated its willingness to reach political agreement on the entire reform package by the end of June. This ambitious path has been supported by the Council and the Commission, both of which have given willingness to solve the problems with greater flexibility than in the past. Representatives of the European Parliament, together with our President, Paolo De Castro, also participated in the Dublin Council. In this context, the representatives of Parliament have also expressed their willingness to reach an agreement, specifying some critical issues and insisting on some fundamental elements for our country. However, Parliament's representatives pointed out that the general agreement is conditional on the overcoming of two fundamental issues: firstly, the completion of the agreement on the multiannual financial framework of the Union, on which the resources to be allocated to the CAP depend. At the moment it is recalled that more resources are being called for, more budgetary flexibility and a mid-term review. Without agreement on the Union's financial framework, an agreement on the CAP would be impossible for Parliament. The second problem is alignment with the Lisbon Treaty, particularly with regard to delegations to the Commission, which are considered excessive by Parliament. In the light of these issues, further work is needed, first of all in the framework of the Special Committee on Agriculture (SSC) and in the trilogues, in order to better prepare for the intense debate planned for the end of June in the Council, where agreement will be sought on the whole negotiation and, therefore, on the whole package. However, it should be pointed out that even if the agreement were to be reached by the end of June, much of the reform will come into force in 2015 - I am thinking of direct payments and common market organisations - in order to allow, of course, administrations to adapt to the new rules of the CAP, which will significantly change the aid regime. Therefore, in 2014 it will continue with the regulations in force, but with the financial resources provided for in the agreement of the European Council of 8 February 2013. In this context - precisely in terms of titles but I will continue to talk about it during our hearing - one of the most important issues (some of which have already been raised), which are the subject of strong debate, there is first and foremost the issue of the active farmer. In this respect, the proposal has been formulated with the aim of restricting direct payments to "real farmers" only. To this end, aid shall be granted to farmers whose agricultural land is kept in a state suitable for cultivation or grazing, provided that a minimum activity is carried out on those areas. The Commission's initial text, which conditions aid to the fact that direct payments cannot be less than 5% of the proceeds from non-agricultural activities, has raised many criticisms and calls for amendments, in particular with a view to ensuring greater subsidiarity and simpler application. The European Parliament provides for a mandatory list of types of companies for which direct support cannot be granted. The Council's mandate, shared by Italy, cannot make explicit reference to the value of direct payments, as requested by the Commission, providing only for the obligation to carry out the minimum agricultural activity. As regards internal convergence, in the new architecture of direct payments, the Commission envisages a uniform average payment per hectare at national level. It would not be a good solution for Italy, because our securities to the aid vary within a range of values ranging from 50 to 5,000 euros per hectare, therefore this solution would be particularly penalising for certain productive sectors that today benefit from an important and wide support. On the subject of internal convergence, the Presidency compromise has three options. The first is a flat rate since the first year of implementation of the reform (2015). In this case, all securities would have the same unit value irrespective of the amount of the starting value. The second option is to allocate a 40% share of the basic payment ceiling in a uniform manner to all securities, allocating the remaining share to the increase in value on the basis of the values of the previous securities. However, by 2019 the value of all the securities will have to be uniform, through gradual variations in increase for the lower and decreasing ones for the higher ones. The third option is the so-called Irish model, inserted in the text by the Presidency, which provides for internal convergence similar to external convergence, where it is expected, again by 2019, to recover part of the value of securities whose value is below the national average, taking the necessary amounts from securities with values above the average. With this model you cannot achieve a uniform value in 2019, in fact all securities maintain a certain diversification due to the impact of their historical component. This is the model that best suits our needs. With regard to greening, the Commission's proposal aims to enhance the ecological aspects of agricultural activity, paying them a share of direct payments conditional on compliance with certain environmental constraints. In particular, the proposal provides for the diversification of arable crops for holdings with an area of more than 3 hectares, the conservation of permanent grasslands and the presence on at least 7 per cent of the farm area of areas of ecological interest, such as land left to rest, terraces, characteristic elements of the landscape and buffer belts. Areas dedicated to organic production are considered greening ipso facto. Much should still be said about greening, but I'm afraid I don't have enough time. With regard to coupled payments, in line with the current CAP provisions, they aim to support particular sectors relevant to agriculture in the different Member States. The Commission's proposal therefore provides for our country that up to 10% of the ceiling for direct payments is reserved for certain sectors and productions included in a predefined list which includes all sectors that previously had aid under their respective COMs with the exception of tobacco. The European Parliament, in its negotiating mandate, aims to raise the ceiling for aid coupled to 15% by extending the list of products to all those listed in Annex 1 to the Treaty. The proposals of the European Parliament and the Council, leaving more flexibility to the Member States in deciding the amount of resources allocated to coupled payments, appear preferable because of the heterogeneity of the value of the payment entitlements present in Italy, as the possibility would be ensured to ensure further support in areas where decoupled aid is not sufficient. The request made by the European Parliament to extend the measure to all the products listed in Annex 1 to the Treaty would then allow resources to be allocated to tobacco cultivation, the importance of which must be read in the light of the workforce employed and therefore of its social value, also bearing in mind that the disappearance of tobacco production in Europe is not a valid tool for combating smoking. As regards rural development, in line with the objectives of the European Union's Europe 2020 Strategy, the new rural development policy must operate in a coordinated and complementary manner to the first pillar of the CAP and other Union funds, in particular the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the Cohesion Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF). The funds form part of a common strategic framework (CSF) defined at European level, which in turn will result in national partnership contracts with common objectives and rules for their intervention. With the compromise reached by the Council of Agriculture Ministers on 18 and 19 March 2013, most of the requests made by Italy, including the possibility of bringing together national programmes with regional programmes, the easing of the constraints on irrigation infrastructure, greater flexibility for risk management measures, and the introduction of the measure for quality products, were transposed. As mentioned above, unlike direct payments, the reform of rural development will enter into force without any slippage from 1 January 2014 and, within the rural reform, there is also the response to the request for insurance and mutual fund, being in it a programme of appropriations of EUR 2 billion for seven years for this purpose. Finally, the first and second parts of the negotiations contain the whole discipline of the mountain agriculture sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u82	We thank the Minister. They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u85	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Madam Minister, I would like to thank you very much for this reply which, in line with the times, has tried to be complete. Anyway, I'll see you next week at the audition. The matter is quite complex. From what we understand, there is room for flexibility. We all want special attention to be paid to this issue. Last year the 50th anniversary of the CAP was celebrated. Five reforms have been launched in the last 20 years. This will be taken care of. I think we need to take advantage of this opportunity - it is a kind of recommendation that our Group makes them - to bring our country to a full awareness, a sort of cultural enhancement, of Made in Italy in agriculture and agro-food. I come to a second recommendation on the work that we can do together: we must keep the programmes together in the medium and long term with the specific needs (before we mentioned the natural disasters) and of a binding nature that our territory expresses and that we continue to urge, to us parliamentarians as well as to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u88	Formigoni (PdL). Madam Minister, as you said, we will have the opportunity to deepen the dialogue and cooperation between us during the hearing in the Commission, which has already been scheduled for Wednesday next week. Here I want to make just one remark, also for the benefit of those who follow us live television: the agricultural one is perhaps the most important sector for which our country must go to Europe not with a high head, but with a very high head because in the past our country has been penalized by agricultural policies that did not take account of the needs of our territory. As some have mentioned, we are the first European agriculture. Therefore, for the well-being of the Union itself, it is good that priority should be given to the development needs of our agriculture in Europe: what is good for Italian agriculture will also do good for European agriculture. Good job!
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u91	DE PIN (M5S). Madam Minister, I too believe that the agricultural sector is crucial to our nation. That is why I believe that it needs a strong representativeness in Europe. In the Committee on Agriculture, we have just listened to the parties. From what we were told and from what I could perceive, even in the various meetings I had personally, our Made in Italy - small, but of quality - must be preserved and strengthened. I say this because we know that there are countries in the European Union that have other objectives than our own. I would therefore ask that we take into account the strong relations we have with other European countries.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u94	DI BIAGIO (SPI). Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. The issue of the CAP is crucial because it affects the activities of thousands of companies. It is true that we have moved from an original situation that is very penalising for our country to a situation that is remodulated and more flexible, but still so much can and must be done to protect the specifics of our territory. The previous Administration has been very committed to supporting in Europe the need to revise the guidelines established, in order to take more account of the specificity of Mediterranean and Italian agriculture in particular, demonstrating a strong ability to place itself in Europe as actors and protagonists of a valid and profitable dialogue. An active presence that must be maintained and consolidated, in collaboration with the European institutions, to define a policy that is really capable of enhancing and supporting European and Italian agriculture in particular. I am sure, Minister, that you will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u97	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, we must also pay great attention to agriculture because Italian agriculture contributes to the preservation of traditions, culture and natural heritage. The CAP is one of the most important policies of the European Union. We know that agricultural expenditure accounts for about 45% of the Community budget. I greatly appreciated his passage on mountain agriculture, where it is really difficult to do business and find excellent productions that put people in a position to work. We also know that Europe is Franco-German-led and you, Madam Minister, are always careful about this axis, because those countries do not care much about our specific characteristics, our particular products, but they play a lot on quantity. We need to be very careful, because there will be no chance of fighting them if we are not very much present in Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u100	COMPAGNONE (GAL). Madam Minister, you must forgive my harshness, which is not a criticism of you but is intended to give you strength. We believe, in fact, that, rather than the agreements, the European Union must be sought for confrontation: it takes strength and hardness and it is necessary to seek confrontation in order to assert Italian agriculture and the importance this sector has for Europe and for Italy, regardless of the interests of others. We must affirm our specificity, Made in Italy: we have all said so. However, we must go to Europe with the determination to defend Italy, which has not been done in the past and we are now mourning the consequences.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u103	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, Minister, the coming months will really be hard work, hard work, because agriculture is a very important sector for our country. I just want to focus on a sector that I have already dealt with, mountain agriculture, a sector in which further discussions will certainly be held, because it focuses on the issues of specificity, biodiversity, organic production and the environment; it is in the mountain areas that the current situation must be preserved and possibly improved. I congratulate you on being able to have a national plan at the same time as the regional plans, so that we do not lose money as we are doing now. From 2000 to 2007 we were in fact able to move money from one region that had not spent it to another that needed it: now, in the current situation, with regional plans those who do not use the funds that it has unfortunately cannot give them to others. You have taken a great step towards the future and in this way it will be possible to avoid losing the funds that the European Union makes available for Italian agriculture. That is why I thank you and wish you a great deal of strength in the coming negotiations.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u106	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, it is clear that we have reached a very delicate moment in the debate between the European Commission, the European Council and the European Parliament on the reform of the CAP. So, of course, we need to put in place all the authority and strength of our country, which has not been done in the past, when we have distinguished ourselves also for the fact that we have changed the Minister of Agriculture every year (and someone has never even set foot in Europe). We therefore have a very strong need today to recover and to ensure that the values, strength and peculiarity of our agriculture are recognised. Until now we have been partially penalized, because basically the idea of the strength of continental agriculture has always been the best. Just as the underlying element has always been that of inequality, which has ensured that even today - unfortunately, we will still pay for the consequences - the CAP criteria for the distribution of funds mean that 80% of the resources are allocated to 20% of the farmers. And this is a serious problem for us. So, as far as we are concerned, we are absolutely convinced that Italy must be very focused on the agri-food sector. I am glad that for the first time this House is a little more present on the issues of agriculture, because at last there is an interest in politics. On the other hand, the numbers, even at a time of crisis of the Italian agro-food industry, are important, and the agricultural sector is one of the few sectors that still export. We must therefore bring home the results that really enhance our agriculture. It is not a matter of nationalism: making the most of our crops means helping all European agriculture, and that is the mandate that I believe we can all give you today in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u107	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister De Girolamo for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u108	I inform you that the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities is convened to proceed to its constitution on Wednesday 5 June at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u109	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-31.ana.u110	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday, 3 June, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.13 p.m.
