ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 298-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. At yesterday's afternoon sitting, the general debate was over. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u5	Mr President, I am speaking quickly because I believe that the debate in this House and in the Commission has been more than comprehensive. On the contrary, I would like to take this opportunity to thank both my colleagues and my colleagues for their very valuable work, given, among other things, that the measure is at third reading. I think that we are doing an important act that will produce positive results, if well carried out in the implementation phase. The first element that I would like to put to your attention is that we have finally circumscribed a method, we have tried to indicate a possible path of validity, not of truth but of verification, as some have already rightly observed yesterday. As always, we cannot talk about perfection, but it seems to me that there have been many improvements to the initial text. So, I think a small step forward has been taken. Of course, it may not satisfy everyone, but it contains a criterion that I think is very important, about which Senator Romano also spoke yesterday, namely the concept that there can be no freedom of care if there is no responsibility. Freedom without responsibility cannot work, not only in general in life but, in particular, in such a delicate field as medical research, experimentation and the gaze on the new. So, freedom and responsibility. The responsibility which this House takes, and which I hope will also take the whole world of Italian and international health care, goes in three directions. Firstly, responsibility for patients, sick people and their families, who have a right to reasonable hope, but a well-founded hope. Secondly, responsibility for the national health system, the public system and therefore the possibility of this system being protected from practices outside national and international rules and codes. Thirdly, responsibility for the world of science and research, which has the right to discern between what is scientific, and therefore verifiable and verified, and what is not. Given that - let me say, President - the state of research in our country is not among the best in the world, although we have extraordinary researchers and extraordinary scientists, I think that responsibility for this world will also have to be transformed sooner or later into recognition of their social function, and not only of a relationship, even important, of an economic type. There is a professional ethics that must be associated with the ability to make their theories verifiable. The decree under consideration seeks to open a gap in this direction by restricting what was likely to become a sort of Far West. Freedom understood as deregulation is a principle that leads nothing but to elevate walls; I believe instead that if freedom and responsibility go together they can finally ensure that the hope of families does not become illusion, because it would be very serious, and at the same time allow the rest of the world of research and health in our country to finally walk on certain rules and not on unharmonized swamps between Italy and Europe. That is why I call on you to vote on the measure as it stands. I have also seen the agendas: if I may express my opinion, I believe that there are agendas that fit in with the path we have chosen and unfortunately an agenda that does not go in this direction, because we cannot go back and repeat the falsehood that those we are talking about and are the subject of the measure are compassionate care. I do not think that can be defined as that; the path we have chosen is another one, and I think it would be good for us all to share it together, knowing that there will be a verification that will last eighteen months, at the end of which we will all be able to assess the outcome and therefore also how to proceed in the future. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u6	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u7	Mr President, Senators and Senators, I rise in this debate very briefly, but not rhetorically, to thank sincerely for the extraordinary work done by the Health and Health Commission, even very quickly yesterday, by this House and the House. Parliament, on this very complicated, difficult and emotionally engaging affair, has given a great deal of proof of rigour, seriousness and - let me say this - compassion. I would sincerely like to thank all the senators and Members who have worked on this, which was a very complicated decree for the issues it posed, bearing in mind that I greatly respect the direction that has been followed in this matter, namely, on the one hand to give a sure answer to the families who have begun a treatment for their loved ones and who expect, linked to a legitimate hope, to be able to finish it (and this is what is highlighted in a very strong way by the decree and the changes made to it), on the other hand to open a trial in certain funded times, which will give the possibility to verify whether this treatment is really effective by opening, if it were to be, a new frontier of medicine. I believe that a balance has been found and that is why we can only thank the work done by these classrooms. In this matter, as in others that we will have to examine, especially in the Commissions concerned, we are called, as I said yesterday in the Health Commission, to a new frontier of the legislator, which is that of biopolitics, which opens up where science every day produces new discoveries and legitimately increases, on the part of the citizen, the hope of being able to be cured always and in any case. The legislator is called on this time, as in other cases, to verify a way of guaranteeing, on the one hand, the right to health and, on the other, the freedom of care: a difficult constitutional balance, which has also involved some of our courts. In fact, as in this case, there is often a kind of conflict between science, medicine and justice: everything is brought to the new frontier, which we will have to learn and begin to deal with rigorously, in order to give those answers that the Italian citizens expect from this Parliament. For these reasons I am very pleased with the solution that has been achieved, which I find balanced and of common sense, which respects medicine on the one hand and the hope of families on the other. With regard to the other part of this decree, the one concerning judicial psychiatric hospitals, we have accepted and will welcome many suggestions that have come from all over Parliament, because we realize that this is an intolerable situation in our country and how we need to find a certainty for these people, who are sick, and help the territories to be able to welcome people with this type of disease. The entire area of distress and mental illness will be particularly dear to the Government and, I am sure, to Parliament as well. [[Applause from the PD, PDL and LAG groups and Senator Serra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u8	I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration. PETRAGLIA, secretary. The Constitutional Affairs Committee, having examined the draft law in its capacity, shall, as far as its competence is concerned, deliver a non-obstacle opinion. The Economic Planning Commission, the budget, examined the draft law in its capacity, shall express, as far as it is within its competence, a non-obstacle opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u9	Mr President, the G1.1 agenda starts with the enhancement of the choice of the decree, which, for the part relating to the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals, responds to the need to provide in certain times - within the first months of 2014 - for the return to their mental health departments for the treatment, rehabilitation and social reintegration of the persons currently detained. The agenda commits the Government to verify that all the Italian Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano have submitted to the Ministry of Health, by the established date of May 15, 2013, their own programs containing alternative proposals for the return, precisely, of the internees and also commits the Government to verify that this happens and that therefore the programs contain really important choices that aim at the absorption of patients in the social fabric and the acceptance of these people in small structures that are inserted in the territories and that can also overcome the logic that sometimes have led the internees to be in non-regional structures. In fact, the agenda commits the Government to ensuring that the return takes place within its own territory of residence. The G1.1 agenda also commits the Government to ensure that the necessary and required priority measures are taken by the regions concerned for the resignation of persons for whom the judicial authority has excluded or excludes the existence of social danger. A further important element to stress is the verification, with the help of a specific committee of experts, that the health structures provide for small social and health residences included in the social contexts. The last commitment requested by the Government is the timely adoption, both in the phase of examination of regional and provincial programmes - submitted by the date of 15 May - and in the course of their implementation, in the event of a finding of non-compliance by the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, of the necessary replacement interventions provided for in paragraph 9 of the aforementioned article 3-b, and therefore that a supervision is expected that is not only theoretical but that involves, where there is a lack of compliance, the reduction of three percent of the National Health Fund intended for those Regions or Autonomous Provinces, to be remedied at the time when such non-compliances will be remedied. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u10	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the G1.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u11	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u12	I accept the G1.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u13	Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. Let us now turn to the agenda referred to in Article 2 of the Decree-Law which I invite the presenters to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the G2.1 agenda, in the context of the adoption of this text, which is so debated and so thorny to the public's attention and not only, captures the Senate, a few hours after the expiry of the decree, in the impossibility of interacting and modifying, if deemed necessary, the text that came out of the House. That is why what is still possible in the Senate Assembly is only the reflection and approval of any agenda that, we know very well, does not modify the legislative text but indicates a direction and tries to find a new balance on the needs that, escaped the norm, are repositioning in all their importance. What are the requirements that have escaped the rule that this agenda, Mr President, intends to bring to the attention of all of us? These are the most important needs, those of patients, those of those who are in a situation of dramatic difficulty: the difficulty to bear the pain, the difficulty to live, or perhaps not to live, in a truly tragic condition: the difficulty of the family members of all these patients to help them, to support them, to bear the overwhelming weight of a disease without hope, and above all, to date, without possible care, which imposes on all of us a fundamental reflection. We must ask ourselves whether in lawmaking we are really considering the centrality of man, the centrality of the patient, the centrality of a child suffering from such serious pathologies compared to the whole world that revolves around him, that is made not only of the solidarity and love of his parents, but also of the daily encounter, of the daily confrontation, most of the times, with the system of bureaucracy, of the rules, with a health situation a little spot of leopard, that sometimes manages to give answers and many other times not. Those who deal with family members and these patients in their daily lives are problems that we have already had occasion to recall in this House, in the previous work carried out more than a month ago by the Senate, which only today comes to fruition with this final vote, in order to dismiss a rule that tried to find legislative solutions, beyond that path that was already enshrined in the law, but that for a series of situations, sometimes judicial, sometimes procedural, sometimes other, had determined a great demand for access to these therapies and a lack of response from public structures, except for the hospital in Brescia. That is why, on the agenda of G2.1 the references that we wanted to include mean precisely the defence of this experience, the return of that possible experimentation, according to the opinion of all scientists, to a certain number of pathologies. Among these pathologies, we think that the rare ones, those without care, the most dramatic must be the first to see the experimentation addressed. The agenda also calls for this experimentation to be possible, as the House has understood with the new text, in those cell factories, which today are only 11 or 13, depending on how you want to catalog (but there are many others), that that bureaucratic system, to which I referred before, perhaps has not yet authorized. This is the case of the cell factories in the Veneto Region, ready, available, subject to important public funding, which have been waiting for years for the authorisation of AIFA: here, that bureaucratic system, to which I only mentioned at the beginning of my speech. It is the same bureaucratic system that leads us to have to deal with the situation in this way, in the ways we have experienced in the last two months, among the demands of parents, the great media relief, the massive presence on the network of movements of supporters to family and patients. Why is that? Because a bureaucratic system has not done its job in previous years and, while having to, as is written in a law, draw up a regulation to regulate all this procedure, it has never done so. That is why we ask that all this be carried out quickly and that the Italian Agency of the drug be recovered. The last point, perhaps the most important, because it concerns precisely the centrality of the patient within the health system, is that while Camera and Senato join on the pressing need of an experimentation that gives certainties to these patients, we think that, while the trial takes place, we must continue to guarantee these patients access to these treatments. We thought, and we believed to foresee in the Senate norm, that the legislator should not leave this role to the magistrate, that he should not leave to another power, to a legal order such as the judicial one the task of deciding on the right to life or death, but that one could, while experimenting, continue to guarantee access to therapies as carried out at the hospital in Brescia, as well as could be carried out in many other hospitals if we had left them this possibility, namely through the GLP procedure, present in many public institutions, in many companies and in research centers such as university, where already happens with great regularity and with great safety for patients the bone marrow transplant. This is the vital center and the beating heart of the law as the Senate has understood it and this is written on this agenda that I put to your attention and that I hope will find in our Government that sensitivity and that attention due to a situation that has come to be created certainly not because of the sick, certainly not because of those small patients, helpless children who are affected by dramatic diseases. To them, and especially to them, we must be able to guarantee not only hope, because between the journeys of hope and the hope of a cure lies our role as legislators: we must be able to guarantee them the certainty that the State thinks of them, that the Italian State takes care of them and that the Italian State prefers their lives, guarantees their lives, compared to any other procedure, especially if it is bureaucratic. [[Applause from the PdL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief because the agenda that has been signed by most of the groups in the Health Commission, with whom we have discussed its content, simply refers to the fact that the regulations for the use of advanced therapies, including those based on stem cells, are currently and for several years now partial and not up to date. The legislation is technically and legally very complex and is constantly evolving at European level. Moreover, with regard to Italian legislation, the failure, or rather partial transposition, of the updates that have been made at European level, has in fact allowed this sad case of the Stamina case, with the intervention, as has already been said, of the judiciary and generating a great anxiety and great expectations on the part of patients. The G2.2 agenda therefore merely intends to point out (we have already explained it to the Minister yesterday) that it is a matter of taking very quickly a measure which should have been adopted since 2009, which finally transposes European legislation and which therefore allows, at least in principle, such cases should no longer occur. The lack of this measure, which should be adopted by the Ministry through the Drug Agency, forced Parliament to intervene on a decree-law proposed by the Minister to try to resolve an issue which, among other things, was also the subject of remarks as it was not constitutionally acceptable under emergency conditions. Therefore, the request on the agenda is addressed to the Minister, to implement all the necessary initiatives to fill a delay that for too many years has made the situation of treatments for advanced stem cell therapies difficult. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u18	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would just like to say that the senators of the Lega Nord, Veneto in particular, would like to add, if Senator Bonfrisco agrees, their signature on the agenda G2.1, because they share the objectives. BONFRISCO (PdL). Mr. President, I agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u19	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u20	Mr President, I call for the G2.1 agenda to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am in favour of the G2.2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u21	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u22	Senator Bonfrisco, do you accept the invitation to withdraw the agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u23	Mr President, I would find it very anachronistic to withdraw an agenda which represents and expresses the will and demand of so many Italian citizens. I entrust him to the responsibility and conscience of each of us and insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u24	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G2.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u27	D'ANNA (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to recall in this House that a large part of the vexed question between these two agendas stems from a lack of legislation that the House of Members had already defined two years ago by unanimously approving bill No 4274, which codified and specified precise procedures and guidelines for clinical trials. I'd like the Minister to listen to me. This important measure, transferred to the Senate in October 2011 (Legislation no. 2935), where it remained lying for two years because there was no time to examine it, called procedures and guidelines for scientific experimentation. This is because it should not lack a cloth and should not lack a procedure scientifically validated and framed in a law. In fact, if we had also approved to the Senate that provision that Minister Balduzzi proposed and that the House approved, the problem would not have been settled this morning; nor would it arise whenever someone comes out of the sacred enclosure of what is a custom, and therefore does not interface with the competent authorities but is not said to be right. The invitation I make to the Minister is to take back with force, to make his own this bill that was already validated by the House, and to take it immediately to the Senate to see if it can be approved in the deliberating session of the Commission, because at the time all the parliamentary groups voted in favour. I therefore point out the bill No. 2935 of the Senate of the past legislature. I would also like to add that I shall be voting in favour of the agenda that I have signed, not because I believe that what the Minister proposes and what the Commission has proposed is not valid: on the contrary, it is very valid, because it is healthy certain aspects of the existing and starts with certain dates and times an experiment that will have to arrive at a rigorous scientific verification of the results of this therapy. However, in the absence of a law and, therefore, a scientifically valid procedural certainty, I believe that those who have had the results should be able to continue in these therapies. As I do not agree that stem cells can be treated as drugs. On the one hand, in fact, it is said that they are not organs to transplant, but I believe that the AIFA has a little forced the hand in defining them even drugs. That's not it. Perhaps, however, everything is to be traced back to a speech that can also have commercial implications, because when you treat stem cells as drugs it means that someone will sell these drugs, put them on the market and someone else will have to buy them. These things we must tell ourselves, in science and conscience. So, everything is fine on the agenda G2.2, to which the Minister gave his assent, apart from the notion that AIFA wanted to introduce, that stem cells must be considered as drugs: they are therapies subject to experimentation, even better under a framework law that was already at hand a year and a half ago, with the bill No 2935. Defining stem cell drugs is, in my opinion, a prodromic forcing to use these drugs for other purposes.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u30	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, I rise to express my personal support for the G2.1 agenda, to which Senator Bonfrisco is first a signatory, and to say that I realise that the situation is delicate. I also realize that I am personally conditioned by some particular cases that have raised awareness of my valley and my province. On the one hand, we cannot deny the right to care and also the right to try a cure that is not certain. Therefore, I think that the first vote that the Senate expressed today must be reiterated, also with this agenda G2.1, giving the possibility to those who have not already begun the trial and to those who have not already begun the care to do so. Denying this right is like denying the right to hope. On the other hand, I consider it absolutely negative to leave this decision to the courts. The court in Trento accepted the appeal of the family of one of these patients and, in fact, recognized her right to be treated. I think that this House cannot allow the courts and popular sensitivity to make it possible for all our citizens to have access to care, and I think that civilisation today requires us to accept this agenda and to extend to everyone the opportunity to take care of ourselves and to have a right to hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u31	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G2.1 agenda. BONFRISCO (PdL). We call for a simultaneous vote by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, made by Senator Bonfrisco, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by electronic ballot of the agenda G2.1, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 248 Senators voting 247 Majority 124 Favorables 37 Contrari 195 Absent 15]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Resumption of the discussion of draft law n. 298-B PRESIDENT. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.2 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u34	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI). Mr President, I shall be very brief, having already discussed this subject at first reading. I would like to give the first consideration to the organisation of Parliament and the fact that bicameralism must be overcome as soon as possible, because it is actually wasting a lot of time on us. I am part of that 80% of new senators who realize how important it is to reform the state and arrive at a parliamentary system that speeds up its work as much as possible. As far as the measure is concerned, I refer to the report by President De Biasi presented at yesterday's sitting, which I am marrying in its entirety. With regard to Article 1 on judicial psychiatric hospitals, my only concern is the resources allocated to the regions to deal with the organization of these new structures and, above all, the rehabilitation routes and their taking care of them. We hope that the resources will be sufficient, although it has some doubts, since many regions will be on their way back. As far as Article 2 is concerned, certainly the most delicate, I will not repeat the whole of my speech at first reading in the Senate. I would just like to add that with this measure we will certainly not meet all the needs of the many patients and families who would like to try the treatments in question. I believe that the best way to respond to the needs and the right to care of the population is to provide effective care and have passed the clinical and scientific trials. In this sense, surely the work done in the Chamber and the Senate offers the guarantee that the protocols will see the light after the phase of scientific experimentation. I do not go any further and, therefore, I declare on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies our vote in favour, naturally taking into account the fact that this is an argument on which everyone makes his conscience speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u37	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we are voting in favour of this decree-law, as we anticipated yesterday, but with a few brief comments. Let us consider the point of mediation that colleagues in the House have found as a starting point for work. Perhaps we could have done better, as the debate this morning shows, but this must be a reason for our commitment, in order to try not to find ourselves in the same situation and try, instead, to adapt ourselves - as the agenda of Senator Dirindin and others have asked - to the European legislation. I conclude the intervention by saying that, with respect to Article 1 of the decree-law, we are concerned no longer to find the end of May 15 - as on the other hand the agenda of the Senator Mattesini emphasized - as a term for the Regions for the delivery of the programs of taking charge of the prisoners in the OPG. We note this with concern because we would not want that, while bearing in mind the responsibility of the decree-law in the delays, this authorizes the Regions to take, in fact, a whole year of time: we would not want to find ourselves on 1 April 2014 to have to take note of yet another delay and yet another extension. We strongly urge the Government to watch over this. We have set 30 November as a deadline for the submission of a report to the relevant parliamentary committees on the state of implementation of regional programmes by the Government, but we also invite it to check that the work by the Regions is actually going ahead and there is no pause to put an end to this shame of our system, which is precisely that of psychiatric judicial hospitals.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u40	Bianconi (GAL). Mr President, by announcing the LAG Group's vote in favour, I would like to make a few comments on this decree. Every time he is called to do his job, unraveling himself within an extremely narrow and delicate area, between the desire of patients to have a hope, the possibility of a proper cure, and the scientific rigour of the medical part, the legislator must have an extremely complex ethical reference. In this complexity we moved, to try to give an answer to a mess - I call it that - that had previously not been healed. Many have pointed out that in 2009 there was a need to adopt a regulation in this area, in line with Europe: if we had adopted that regulation we would certainly have been able to deal with this case with different criteria and methods. Inside this mess, of course, the judiciary has entered. In fact, the right claim on the part of the parents of small patients, by virtue of our Constitution, has been poured into the judicial sphere. For these reasons we need to close this page quickly, as requested on the accepted agenda, and to arrange very quickly the Observatory at the Ministry of Health in order to be able to score a cesura compared to a vulnus that we have previously created. With reference to the decree-law in question, which we are converting into law today, I am interested to highlight only three aspects. The first is that in this decree the therapeutic continuity is maintained and respected for those patients who are already being treated today. The second is that the Minister wanted this experiment to be rigorous, but within a time limit of 18 months. This guarantees all: the scientific world and patients, but also the possibility of knowing whether this methodology will really open up new therapeutic paths or whether this therapy can not open any stage of other curative procedural nature. Finally, the Minister wanted to commit three million of his Dicastery, and this is the first time that this has happened: we know that it will create a precedent, but I believe that the Minister has done very well to put this kind of attention, even at a time of financial difficulties such as what we are experiencing. In fact, we must be courageous in being able to enter a street and walk it all the way, with a clear conscience in order to be able to say one day that we have done everything we have done. This we owe as legislators and above all we must give it to young patients, but also to the scientific world. For these reasons we shall vote in favour of the conversion of the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the LAG Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u43	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the vote will be taken for the second time. Certainly today we will close this page, and we must do so quickly, which had opened, among other things, with a deepening of the closure of psychiatric judicial hospitals, which - as has already been mentioned several times in previous speeches - is a very debated issue, but above all old in time. We must close this page, as I said, because we can no longer wait for solutions on this issue, and the solutions, of course, must not only be left to the dictates of the law, but must correspond to the attention that the Government must give to the territory. The law is not enough: it will then have to continue to monitor the situation, because what is done today in an unbecoming way by many psychiatric judicial hospitals is then reabsorbed optimally by the territory. In this sense, we recommend that the Government also pay attention to the territorial structures of psychiatric rehabilitation. However, let us now move quickly to the second argument dealt with in the decree in conversion, which has passed to the chronicle as the decree on stem cells. I believe that on this occasion, as in no other, the famous saying that good is the enemy of the best can be applied. Today we will probably not be able to fully define this initiative, but we are working to try to give an answer that is as comprehensive as possible with the elements that have been put in place. We must also say, honestly, that at first reading the time has been very tight: the Commission (which was then the special one) worked with limited elements and also with considerable pressure from the media, and this must be borne in mind, Mr President, because this is a type of pressure that does not help legislators to fully deepen the content of legislation and, above all, of such a complex discipline. This work was then done by the House: hearings were held which allowed the subject to be deepened more thoroughly and led to the changes to the decree that come today and which we saw yesterday in the Commission. With this second reading, therefore, today we bring to the approval a decree that we hope - and I say this to the Minister - can also fit into a new trial path. We must remember - as has already been said several times - that the judiciary has also been included in this path: certainly with interventions according to law, but improper, because the initiatives must be followed by the Ministry, which must begin the experimentation. In every circumstance in which there are the prerequisites, experimentation must be started, because one must move quickly from experimentation to cure, erasing hopes when they are vain, but confirming them at the moment when the scientific validity guarantees to all that they are well placed. This is where a new subject has been put, which has been debated in the Commission: the scientific validity of what is being discussed. We must always be careful to remember that it is not enough to give hope: we must also be aware that hopes are not disappointed. Therefore, we need a path that gives completion and that in this sense, as is foreseen by the legislation that is approved today, is also accompanied by the necessary scientific support and validation, under the aegis of the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA) and the National Center for Transplants. Mr President, Minister, we certainly would have preferred that the funds made available for research and experimentation should not come from the National Health Fund, but from other sources, but so much so. However, in any case, this is already an important step forward: we will therefore be careful to ensure that this does not just remain a formality, but also becomes a substance. To sum up, as I approach the conclusion of my speech, Mr President, I believe that the deepening that led to the return of the modified measure in the Senate classrooms has been corrected and completed. However, I would ask the Minister to be careful, so that what has happened in the past does not happen again, namely that two so different disciplines are mixed in a decree-law. We know that the current Government has inherited this measure: it treasures it. We did not appreciate that such important and so different issues were included in this measure, which prevents a worthy deepening, both of one thing and the other; but so much so. At best - as I said and as has already been said several times - we can do some good today: let's try to do it in the best possible way, knowing well that this is a discipline that will have to be monitored over time and that certainly is not exhaustive of any further legislative deepening. The vote of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group will therefore be in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator De Biasi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u46	ROMANO (SPI). Mr President, Minister, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, in announcing the vote in favour of the Citizen's Choice Group for Italy, I would like to put a very brief reflection to your attention. It seems to me that we have been discussing, for more than a month now, an extremely delicate subject, which is connected to suffering and, for this reason, must be routed along a virtuous path: the virtuous path of the good of the patient. We have said that the foundation of civil life and ethical declination, both in the political and civil spheres, the dimension of the person and his centrality presuppose a concentric action, on the part of all, aimed at pursuing the good of the patient and the person. I believe that today we will go to approve the conversion into law of a decree that, even if not in a perfect, comprehensive and optimal way, nevertheless tries to decline two aspects that become good: what is technically good to do and what represents the good of the patient. To talk about what is technically good is to refer to behaviors and actions in the biomedical and welfare fields which require strict criteria as regards the procedures that have been followed. And I believe that, in a certain way, what is being brought to our attention can be a technical asset. But we ask ourselves another question: does the technical good exhaust in itself everything that represents the good of the patient himself? It is a part, but it does not exhaust it entirely, for a very simple reason: although it can be provided for a technical good, the good of the patient means his health, his right to life, his intrinsic and inescapable dignity. This inescapable dignity, obviously, cannot be bartered in terms of demagogy or in terms of ideological instrumental interpretations, but it must not be said contractualized, but mediated, with noble actions, with unequivocal references to welfare ethics. Justly, already yesterday in the Commission and today, the Minister recalled (and I appreciate it and officially state it with full awareness, and not for some sort of institutional pleasing) the calmness, tranquility and serenity that are not outward manifestations of weakness, but a dimension of a wealth of clear, well-defined ideas that refer to ethical norms. Well, when you decline the biopolitics, you can do it in two ways: either in the proper origin of the word, as the management of power over life (and this is not the interpretation that we give it), or in another meaning, a little more common that perhaps is confused with another, with the bioright and the biojurisprudenza, as the norm translation of some ethical and social reflections. Here comes the criticality of having to deal with this topic, as well as all the arguments that starting from an ethical and biomedical reflection must find their development and their evolution in legislative norm. I believe that this has been a challenge for all of us. I agree with the senator who preceded me, Senator Candiani, who said that the work carried out in the Special Commission in the Senate had, in fact, the purpose of dissolving a ground of ideologism and demagogic speculation. It wasn't easy. We have also done so with serenity and - let me say - we have opened a road: a road along which, of course, the competent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies has drawn up the decree-law and, therefore, made amendments to it. We can say that we are satisfied, we can say that we are moderately satisfied. It is evident that in the decree-law that we are going to convert into law today there are some critical issues. However, in the face of a balance, a mediation, a search for what represents the technical good and the good of people, I believe that we have all done a good job. We have all cooperated and we have given the possibility that the hopes that are inherent in any treatment (I do not yet speak of therapy for the case), and in this particular, without prejudice to my deep concerns from the biomedical point of view, in the hope of all, can find that path where the good health of these patients corresponds to the technical good. I stop here because the reflections in this area could be even longer and dovitious of details. I believe that we should all make a gesture of humility, of obedience to a scientific truth that is never absolute, but contingent and relative because of the historical period and that, however, gives us precise indications in view of the moment. I believe that the patient's hope must be declined with the hope of scientific research that can progress and, in the specific field, can be of further help to the good health and the protection of the dignity of these patients. In confirming the favorable vote of the Civic Choice Group for Italy, I thank everyone for the attention reserved to me. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD, M5S, LN-Aut and Senator Companione groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u49	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are faced with what should be the last act of an issue that is, without a shadow of a doubt, among the most delicate that can be discussed in this House, and this is because it involves not only the right to health, but also its most direct corollary, namely the right to therapeutic self-determination. In these last days there have been numerous demonstrations in the square. They reminded us, as Marcel Proust said, that the disease is the doctor to whom we listen most. To kindness and wisdom we make only promises; to pain, we obey. That is why I cannot fail to raise concerns about the use of the urgent decree to regulate this sensitive matter. Of course, on these occasions you could argue with arguments that are not without foundation that you are actually encountering in one of those extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency. Nevertheless, temporarily restricting the parliamentary debate on such a complex subject, which has drawn a line between the views of the scientific community and those of a considerable part of the Italian people, to the only sixty days after the publication only to prevent the decree-law from losing its effectiveness retroactively seems extremely penalising and reductive. The haste, in our opinion, is never a good counselor. We welcome the choice, more than acceptable, to devote three million euros to the experimentation of advanced therapies based on mesenchymal stem cells, one million this year and two next year: a particularly appreciable decision at a time of crisis such as the very serious one we are facing. At least for once we are not witnessing yet another wound in the search, and that is perhaps the main reason for the 5 Star Movement Group to vote in favour of the text today, as amended by the other branch of Parliament. Hoping that these funds will be used as much as possible within public structures and institutions, thus enhancing the excellences that they resist strenuously in spite of the very difficult situation, we reaffirm at the same time strongly that the 5 Star Movement will carefully verify that there is the most total transparency in their use. In addition to any research already under way in the field, they must also benefit from the investigation of the Stamina method. This is because we want it to be thorough and comprehensive, so as to finally set firm points in this tormented affair. While it is true that a large part of the scientific community raises strong doubts about this new therapy, we cannot and do not want to take a position in the scientific debate, but just remember that in a Republic in which scientific research is not only free, because that defines Article 33 of the Constitutional Charter, but in which the State itself has the duty to promote its development, no hypothesis, no intuition, no line should be precluded or endorsed open-mindedly by the legislator, who is not and should not be to this deputy, but only from his correspondence or not to the results of the experimentation. We will also ensure that we do not engage in endless successions of bureaucratic quirks, in winding passages that end up imposing absurd timings or even administrative paralysis, as unfortunately sometimes happens, especially when multiple bodies and authorities are involved. The coordination of the Higher Institute of Health, the participation of the Italian Medicines Agency and the National Transplant Centre, under the aegis of the Minister of Health, are and must remain quality guarantees, never degrade to obstacles. Whatever the answer that scientists will give to the scientific community, but especially to our patients, it must not be delayed in any way without justified reason; every day of research is, in fact, in the eyes of the sick, a day of hope. We therefore welcome the application of strict Community legislation, but do not accept it superficially or uncritically. If we realize that it is not intended to protect the health of the citizens of the old continent but to defend exclusively the lobbying interests of the pharmaceutical companies, we will not hesitate to raise our voice in defence of the real weak, that is, our patients. Similarly, should it be established that there has been speculation about the emotions and sufferings of their families, resulting in a waste of valuable public resources, we will ask those responsible for this to be taken into account in the appropriate forums. Wild, unscrupulous and undignified businessmanship, from whatever direction it comes, must never again find a place in our country. Against it, but above all in favor of the health of us citizens, the 5 Star Movement will fight today, tomorrow and always. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u52	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (PdL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the process of progressive overcoming psychiatric hospitals was established in the previous legislature by Law No 9 of 17 February 2012. We came to that law, as many colleagues will recall, after a laborious work carried out by the Commission of Inquiry which, with great responsibility of its members, visited the premises of the criminal asylums, and the photographs that were taken in those places represent one of the deepest wounds that have occurred in the history of our democracy and of our civilization. The Constitutional Court states that the requirements for the protection of the health of the community should never have or could have justified measures which would have harm, rather than benefit, patients' health. On the basis of this consideration and above all on the basis of the work carried out by the Commission, the President of the Republic, in his wish message at the end of 2012, had to say that criminal asylums are: "a real horror, unworthy of a barely civilized country." He referred to the psychiatric hospitals that we are interested in today with this rule, which makes some changes that take into account the comments made by the constitutional jurisprudence on the need not to be able to defer the immediate disposal of the patients admitted there, provided, of course, that their non-dangerousness for the community is guaranteed. These are necessary changes that we share, and of course we will accompany with our commitment and our vigilance the carrying out of the activities so that the dates that have been identified as the deadline for the fulfilment of the case are not further deferred and a particular monitoring is carried out by the Ministry on the activities that will carry out the Regions regarding the aspects of own competence, especially in relation to the programs for the care and the social reintegration of patients. This is a first point. The second point is very delicate because it concerns a subject of particular sensitivity. Both the Government, whom I thank here in the person of the Minister and the Undersecretary of State, as well as the Parliament's Houses in all the readings, starting from the commendable activity carried out by this branch of Parliament in the Special Commission and then continued in the Committees on the merits of the Chamber of Deputies, have not only taken into account the objective of balancing the right to health with the freedom of therapy, but also tried to maintain another very difficult balance, the one between the rigour of science that seeks truth and the sense of solidarity for those who must never remain deprived of hope. You see, ladies and gentlemen, when the spectre of death advances inexorable and the judgment of the fatal outcome seems not to allow appeal, the human fragility pushes to cultivate very faint hopes, which are sometimes so fragile that they become illusions. We must never extinguish the luminous torch of unknown knowledge within the boundless ocean of prejudice and mistrust, and yet we, as legislators, fully recovering the principle of responsibility even in delicate cases such as this, have a duty to guarantee the national community the conditions for science, and the rigour to which it must recall itself, to leave no room for uncertainty, allowing every type of experimentation in the framework of the protocols of therapy and experimentation approved at national and supranational level. I realize that the human soul is sometimes led to follow the path of irrational: human compassion brings us and must lead us to attitudes of great solidarity towards the many suffering patients, the many children and their families who aspire to recover a hope of life; however, it is necessary that this hope be supported by documented conditions that give the path of medical and pharmaceutical science to the rigour of evidence and repeatability. We have a duty to follow this path, and all the more so, gentlemen of the Government, President, all of us colleagues, when even emotions bouncing with arrogance in Parliament's classrooms through media pressure that sometimes threatens to determine legislative decisions that fall back not on the best choice but on the drive of emotion. The good politics, the politics that serves the country, must follow the main road and I want to emphasize that this is the path that has been made to guarantee patients and those who suffer but also to guarantee the credibility of science, which in this country is not approved except by strict and firm rules. I believe that without prejudice to the continuation of therapy to patients who have already initiated it, as has been foreseen, the possibility of providing clinical trials, the need to investigate the risk-benefit relationship of therapy with mesenchymal stem cells and to conform to the guidelines laid down in Regulation 1394 of 2007 and the choice of funding with as many as three million euros for the years 2012-2013, experimentation represents the distinguishing figure of a policy that is reaccredited in its role and of an activity of the Government and Parliament that speaks only one language and that, although in a difficult and delicate confrontation, has been able to deliver to the country a measure that is based on the legs of national and international credibility. However, Mr President, since the subject remains delicate and deserves to be given high attention by Parliament now, not wishing to deny anyone and for no reason the opportunity to look forward to new and well-founded hopes, I would like to say that, on behalf of my colleagues in the PdL, I shall place in the Health Committee a request for the conduct of a survey under Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure, which I will entrust to the loving and courteous attention of President De Biasi, whom I also thank for the zeal and tenacity with which he has conducted his work in the Commission. A renewed thanks goes to all those who have contributed to the goal of this measure which is greeted by the PdL Group with the vote in favour. [[Applause from the PdL Group and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u55	DIRINDIN (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Undersecretary, the measure that we are called upon to vote on today addresses two very distant issues which would have deserved a separate treatment and which concern people whose fate has suffered and difficulties which are particularly important. These two issues, however, have one element in common: they have been characterised by a failure by the public administration and by the National Health Service compared to what Parliament has already decided in the past. That is why, in the face of the failures that have been spread both in the case of the OPGs and in the case of advanced treatments, Parliament is called upon to vote on a new measure. This is particularly serious, because failures, whether total or partial, persisting in the face of people so grieved, are undoubtedly to be censored, both when they concern central government bodies and when it comes to regional government bodies or health companies. We are called upon to introduce further specifications in relation to the legislation already in force, in the hope that further extensions will not be necessary and we can find a response worthy of a civil country to the people currently interned in judicial psychiatric hospitals and we are forced to intervene with a new discipline in an attempt to allow some advanced therapies, on which we are not yet certain, to be tested in an appropriate way. I am not going to dwell further on the elements of the measure we are debating today, because much has already been said before. I would simply like to thank the Government for having accepted the two agendas which, in analogy with the commitment that the Senate has made since now on these issues, call on the Commission to ensure that no further action is needed to fill serious gaps in the health administration and central administration. I would also ask the Government to ensure that the prediction that testing is carried out also by way of derogation from the law is implemented in ways that safeguard the scientific level, as well as the right of patients to be treated appropriately. I would also like to emphasise what has already been pointed out in relation to funding, which takes away resources from health services, which are already heavily burdened by the restrictions of recent years and which at the moment are still experiencing difficulties in maintaining the current levels of care. In stressing the need for us all together to ensure that we no longer have to return to these issues, which are so seriously penalising people, I declare the PD Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u57	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u58	Barani (GAL). Mr President, I rise to announce my abstention, unlike what happened at first reading when I voted in favour, because I believe that the House has not improved, but it has introduced restrictions which, if referring also to rare diseases, could give this measure validity, but which, of course, as a layman, have now increased my doubts (I envy your certainties). I want to point out these doubts: are we faced with benefactors of the world or with mere exploiters? Are we facing therapy or a type of snake oil? Who's behind the Stamina Foundation? Why isn't there a patent yet? Are sick children really better? Will Italy not risk becoming a new China? Still: are there any risks in mesenchymal cell administration? Why have scientists and Nobel laureates pointed out that there is no Stamina method? Is the compassionate use of therapy prescribed only in the presence of appropriate documentation approved by AIFA? Is the processing of cells in laboratories supervised by AIFA guaranteed? Why are we chasing the people of faxes and e-mails? My colleague in the Democratic Party is right when she says that there have always been failures that have led Parliament to resume work on an issue that the legislator had already addressed. Why do there have to be failures that cause the courts to decide what kind of therapy a patient should undergo? If justice and the courts deal with our issues, especially health issues, health care is, of course, bound to perish. I would like to take one last example on Bella's therapy, on which I presented an act of inspection union: a court had authorized it and another court, after two years, decided that the person who submitted to it had to pay it at his own expense. The difference is 200,000 euros. That is why, having doubts, I want to abstain at the moment, unlike last time, when the text was actually better. I would also ask that the vote be taken by electronic means so that my dissent remains in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u60	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u61	BONFRISCO (PdL). Mr President, after the explanation of vote just made on behalf of the Group of the People of Freedom, you can imagine how much difficulty and suffering this intervention can create in dissent to those who, believing in the great ethical value of the choices of the parliamentarians and the legislator, find themselves having to reaffirm their own position of personal conscience within a assembly that is considering what vote to express towards a decree that, from the beginning of its existence, since the Minister Balduzzi deposited it, has provoked controversy not to end. I would like to conclude my assessment of the decree, appreciating very much the enlightened words of Senator Dirindin, who pointed out that the real reason why we are here today to have to legislate in such a difficult and complex way is the failures of the public administration, the failures of that drug agency which did not do what it should have done and which today claims to obtain from Parliament a law for its use and consumption. We should not be here discussing bureaucracy, politics, economic interests and power, because if we continue to discuss this we keep forgetting that at the heart of this affair there are sick people and families of sick people. I am sorry for all the children who will not survive the diseases that devour them day by day, waiting for the times of bureaucracy and I am sorry for the parents who fight every day to keep them alive, strong only of the greatest love that exists, that for a child. I am sorry that this Parliament is going back on a text which had already been unanimously voted by the Senate, which goes back on the real, not only written, right which must be guaranteed to these patients and which goes back on that 'bad' solidarity, which has nothing to do with the real attention that a Parliament must give to its own citizens and to the bodies they place. In dissent from my group and closely linked to my conscience as a Member of Parliament, I therefore declare my vote against this decree.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u62	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a simultaneous vote, previously made by Senator Barani, is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). Nominal vote by ballot at the same time as the president. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure, of the draft law, composed of only Article 1. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic means: [[Senators present 268 Senators voting 267 Majority 134 Favorable 259 Contrars 2 Absent 6]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and PdL groups.]] For a technical inconvenience connected to her station, Senator Munerato reported that she was unable to take part in the vote. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u65	[[Brusio.]] I pray to those who do not want to listen to the House, to allow their colleagues to make their speeches. Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to draw the attention of the Presidency and the entire House to a very serious matter which is worrying us and which concerns a plan for the reorganization of an industry called Berco, which has a factory in my municipality, Castelfranco Veneto, in the province of Treviso, which falls within the branch of the large industrial plant of Thyssenkrupp. This company has foreseen an industrial reorganization that, however, involves the dismissal of more than 600 workers; of these, some sixty are workers of Castelfranco Veneto, who have no certainty of their future to date. So I let you imagine the situation of social alarm and concern that is being determined. [[Brusio.]] As this is a very worrying and regrettable affair, I am sorry that colleagues do not have a minimum of respect and consideration in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and the Senator D'Onghia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u66	I would ask colleagues to listen to the speech, which is devoted to a subject of great social importance, or to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u67	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Thank you, Mr President. I would like to remind you that today I have asked the Minister for Economic Development, Mr Zanonato, and the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Giovannini, and I think there is an urgent need for an answer. In fact, just today the Government announced, with President Letta, a meeting of the aforementioned Ministers with the social partners to discuss these plans of industrial reorganization, with these prospects of redundancies and dismissals in progress. Just the day before yesterday the negotiations with the Ministry of Economic Development resumed and we ask the two Ministers concerned to give guarantees and answers about the ongoing negotiations, to understand what the future is for these workers. We are talking in these hours about revising the so-called Fornero law and everyone agrees on the need to provide but these workers do not have any guarantee: they do not know if they will find themselves out of work and if they will have any support measures. Mine is a call and an appeal for information soon to be given to us and for these families to be given answers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and the Senator D'Onghia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u68	Senator Biinella, we will request the response to the inspection you have presented. [[Brusio.]] I would ask colleagues who are not interested in listening to the speeches at the end of the sitting to leave the Chamber or to listen to them in silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u71	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are obliged to point out to you a very serious discriminatory act, because it is recurrent and even more unbearable because it happened in a place of culture and education, that is to say at university. We refer to the homophobic and racist statements of Daniele Borromeo, member of the Council of Department of Economic and Business Sciences of the University of Pavia, in quota University Action, who argues that: "homophobia is like the mafia, it does not exist." And he adds: If laws against homophobia were passed, a dangerous precedent would be created. Then they would also like to be defended by women, for example, and perhaps even outsiders, or Jews. Not to mention people with disabilities. Now, fellow senators, you will understand that these unacceptable statements cannot be merely debilitated as provocations: they represent a real insult to human dignity and are shameful for a society that calls itself civil. What worries us even more is the danger that these statements will find fertile ground in a community that has seen the progressive dismantling of the educational and training apparatus for the teaching and dissemination of culture, generating the spread of ignorance and prejudices, evils from which the laws alone will not save us. Without culture we will never be a civilized people, capable and worthy of evolving and realizing. Tolerating these unheard-of statements, and a thousand others that every day inspire and spread violence, we will leave the country ruined in the barbarism of a masculinist, racist, homophobic and feminic subculture. Therefore, the 5 Star Movement hopes that the new Government will put the sad mantra in order with culture is not eaten and places among its priorities education and culture, always remembering that ignorance is dying. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Senator D'Onghia Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u74	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is a short one to bring to the attention of a very topical and very serious subject and to ask the government of course to deal with it. It has happened to me in recent days to confront a family like many, that has lost the house. It's a simple situation: an entrepreneur invests all his savings to buy the first house, doesn't see the contract complete, the company fails, and is sucked into bankruptcy and everything is auctioned, obviously for the interest of the bank that has to recover the money. This is a very serious situation, and we are faced, for the truth, with an even more serious reality for the situation that families are living today, compared to a world, the financial one, which remains foreign to reality, almost as if "stroking" their debtor was the main operation compared to the recovery of credit. We have tabled an agenda on this subject and other groups have also tabled an agenda on this subject. However, I would like the government to take an early interest in this situation, because this is a reality that is underground unraveling whole families. I was just looking at some websites: just enter the web, type entries such as "home", "foreclosure", "auction", and immediately appears an endless sequel of sites that lend themselves to finding alternative solutions. It's the same problem as the "Compro Oro" stores: if they appear in countries it means that there is something that doesn't add up, a reality that is going beyond the law. You intervene then giving breath to the families. We call for this issue to be brought to the attention of the Government and discussed in this House, so that there is attention to something that is ruining whole families, and that also calls into question a system of social solidarity. We find ourselves with families asking relatives to intervene in order to be able to buy the house back, when a moratorium on judicial auctions in favour of credit institutions, which instead ruin whole families, would suffice. Thank you, Mr President, because I know that it will bring this speech to the attention of the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u75	Senator Candiani, of course, we will solicit due attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u78	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am obliged to point out to you, but also to the whole of the Presidency Council, a disservice which, in my opinion, is particularly significant and particularly impacted on parliamentary activity, especially at a time when the Commissions such as this are starting work and setting up. This disservice concerns a significant slowdown on the part of the Senate typography in the printing of draft laws and the consequent fatigue in the publication and advancement of our legislative initiatives. I would point out, for the sake of better information, that on 3 May I presented to this House a draft law on land use (Act No. 600); Today I have been told that since 14 May the text under consideration has not been printed because of the large cuts made in the sector and the reduction of shifts that the service has undergone according to the logic of spending review. According to the Service for the quality of regulatory acts, at the moment drafts of law are printed up to no. 590 compared to 690 until yesterday presented. I would like to ask the Presidency to take action. The presentation of legislative measures is the parliamentary prerogative par excellence that belongs to us elected and, especially at the start of parliamentary work, I believe that it should be possible to carry out it in the best and most efficient way possible. As has already been said, the work of the Commissions is under way and the absence of the texts presented by the individual Members undermines its path, because other texts will probably be scheduled and then we will have to wait for our turn, although they have different priorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u79	Senator Stefano, we will discuss this issue that you highlighted. I would like to point out, however, that we have been publicly criticized as a Parliament for overprinting paper at a time when many documents are also traveling on the Internet. However, I understand your concerns and I will be the bearer of your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2013-05-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-26.ana.u80	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 11.15 a.m.
